ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all parliamentary groups are represented, we have quorum, so we can start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. The first item on the agenda consists in the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV / 1. a — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. In order to intervene on behalf of the PS bench, Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u2	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are doing something that is normal in democracy today. We are confirming a diploma that has been voted by a very express majority, more than once, and exercising a normal competence of the Assembly of the Republic, which balances the legitimacy of the Assembly of the Republic with the legitimacy of the President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u3	You're in mourning, Mrs. Member, you're in mourning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u4	... an institute which is well explained by the President of the Republic himself in his annotated constitution. After several approvals of this diploma in the Assembly of the Republic, the President intended to exercise his political veto. Given the majority that this diploma has, the time has come for the House to respect itself, the time has come for us to respect those who long so much for this day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u6	Where are the demonstrations for that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u7	We also understand, with some emotion, that this day also fulfills, in a way, April. Because to respect and consecrate, at the end of so long, the right to self-determination of death is also to fulfil April, it is also to respect April which is deposited in a non-paternalist constitution, in a constitution that does not define a single conscience, a single model of citizen. And this is also April. April is also not to pursue. April is also a person who can choose, in such a complex situation as this, how he wants to define this difficult moment of his life. I believe that at this moment there are many eyes placed in the Assembly of the Republic, the eyes of those who have waited, waited and waited.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u8	Make a referendum!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u9	And there's also the memory of those who couldn't wait for this day, because they didn't have time for it. But we talked to them and certainly their memory is also here. What a fair day, what a beautiful day. This is also April! [[P.S., BE, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u10	That's why you're in mourning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u11	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u12	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House today will approve the fifth version of the law of assisted drug death. This will be interpreted in the most diverse ways, depending on the convictions and political interests of each. The Liberal Initiative, which is proud of its role in drawing up this diploma and which appreciates a good ideological debate, either from now on rebaptize these interpretations. to those who say that they need five versions to hit a final text is a sign of lack of rigour from the drafting parties, we say: "No! » The successive versions are a sign of openness to the comments and opinions with which many have wanted to contribute over these years, starting with the contributions of the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. to those who will say that the law lacks more debate, more protections, more safeguards, we say: "No! Do not keep on seeking. ” This is one of the laws whose debate, within and outside the Assembly of the Republic, has been longer, deeper and more involved than we have memory. This is one of the most weighted laws and contains all safeguards appropriate to a subject of this sensitivity. And the Liberal Initiative is proud to have been, by its hand, that crucial aspects have been included, such as effective access to palliative care, the mechanism of conscientious objection of health professionals, the robustness of the process of reaffirming the will of the person and the non-exclusion of these deaths from the context of life insurance. to those who will say that a referendum is needed, we say: "No! » Fundamental rights and individual freedoms are not referenceable. For a liberal, these rights and freedoms belong to each one of us and do not depend on the will of a majority or a collective without face. Direct democracy does not incorporate unattainable virtues for representative democracy and the positions that Members have defended in this House include political programmes, electoral programmes, numerous public declarations and debates over the years. The Members of this House therefore have all the legitimacy to deliberate on the death of assisted medicine. to those who will say that re-presenting this diploma without changing its text is a face-to-face to the President of the Republic, we say: "No! » The messages of Mr. President of the Republic, like the judgments of the Constitutional Court, have always been taken into account throughout the legislative process in a sign of respect and openness which no one can deny. The same is now due to the Assembly of the Republic itself, because the issues raised by Mr President will certainly be taken into account in the regulation which Article 31. the law provides that it will be published in the 90 days following its publication, together with other equally important aspects, such as the operation of the special clinical record, the appointment of members for the verification and evaluation committee or the opinions of the medical advisor, specialist or psychiatrist. All of this is possible to be detailed in the regulatory stage. Finally, to those who will say that it is necessary to submit this law to the successive supervision of the Constitutional Court, we say: « Force! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is a right that assists Members, strictly to one tenth of the Members, and the Liberal Initiative is fully confident that the court will conclude by the constitutional conformity of the text, since all previous considerations of the court's judgments have been accepted. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the recognition of a right is not to advocate its exercise. This is, in fact, the essence of the personal and universal nature of the rights that are established in favor of individual freedom. All are right holders, all are free to decide on their exercise and no one can be penalized as a result of the decision to exercise that right or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u14	Any other interpretation would be to give the State the right to judge differently the free choices of each person. In other words, penalizing the individual's moral choices is accepting that there is a collective moral that the State can impose, and that the Liberal Initiative will never accept. [[Congratulations from IL, BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u15	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After twice resorting to the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic returned to Parliament the decree on the decriminalization of medically assisted death. The President understands that two details should be clarified. With the same serenity and the same firmness that this bench had throughout this legislative process, we expressed our understanding that there is no reason to change the drafting of the law, for a very simple reason: the presidential doubts are matters of regulation of the law rather than of the law itself. Confounding these two plans is never a good legislative technique, less in a law with this importance and sensitivity, tested repeatedly in its constitutional alignment. The understanding of the Left Block is therefore very clear: the law must be promulgated as it is. It is the respect for Parliament's legislative primacy and autonomy that imposes it, without any drama, before, with all the serenity of those who know how this is how the Constitution commands it to be. It is very important that Mr. President of the Republic has decided not to require the Constitutional Court to monitor the constitutionality of the law on the decriminalization of drug-assisted death after the last adjustments introduced by this House. Those who had resorted to constitutional justice have decided not to do so now, because there was indeed no minimally consistent doubt about the conformity of this law with our Basic Law. The presidential gesture should serve as a reference to those who are now aware of their will to ask for the successive supervision of the constitutionality of this law. I want to be clear: they have all the legitimacy to do so, but let them announce it now, when, at no time before this long legislative process, they have expressed the slightest doubt about the obedience of the law to the Constitution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u17	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u18	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u19	... says well about the political opportunism that inspires them, the same opportunism that made them propose a referendum in 25. The hour. We know there will be law. They know that this law is loved by the great majority of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u20	It's dear, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u21	What moves them is therefore the simple intention of creating noise at the end of this legislative dossier. The Left Block is on the side of those who always wanted to provide the country with a prudent and balanced law, but also firm, in respect for the serious and free will of all regarding the end of their lives. Today, with the tranquillity of who is consistent and a friend of rights, we help to take a decisive step so that it may be so. And with him, we will be a more respectful society than those who do not want to be double-violent when the end approaches, raped by the suffering and violated by the disrespect of their will. The law will be promulgated. There will be law. We'll be a more tolerant country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u22	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u23	If you will allow me, I wanted to remember a message from John Semedo on May 29, 2018, because this process is long and it was the first time that there was a vote that, at the last hour, did not approve it. John said: "It has been a little while, it will be next." John, it's now! [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u24	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u25	Good morning, Mr. President, Dear colleagues : The veto was, of course, the first great division that took place between us parliamentarians in modern political times in Europe. Whether the king should have a permanent veto or not, that is what divided the right of the left. And we have reached a compromise, which is what we are discussing here today: a veto, yes, no longer of the king, but of the President, but limited; a return to Parliament, in which Parliament can reaffirm its will. What is happening here is therefore the democratic institutions operating, as in 1976 we determined it, in fact, with a consensus that was already 200 years old. If this law now goes to the Constitutional Court, sent back by some Members, it will also be the institutions that operate. That is good, because it is good that we respect the difficulty of this process, which this debate has in Portuguese society. Moreover, when they bring this law to the Constitutional Court, the Members and Members who intend to do so are giving reason to those who say that it was not in the referendum that this situation should be resolved, that this debate should be held,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u26	No, no. It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u27	... because it is not through referendum that the majority can decide on the individual rights of potential minorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u28	Life is not referendum!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u29	And whoever has a suffering that leads him to decide for his death, in case, the death of an assisted drug or the assisted drug suicide, will always be, as we expect, a minority. The ancients said that philosophy is to learn to die and, therefore, it is also to respect the way others, throughout their lives, learned and decided about their own death. The debate that we are doing here, seriously, long and involved, is proof of this and will come to an end with the functioning institutions and with the Portuguese society, accompanying together and step by step what you have already done in other orders and to which the Free is now added in this vote. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u30	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us be clear, this House has decided to open an institutional and political conflict with the President of the Republic, which has established legitimate doubts to a diploma which is a legal aberration and which we are approving today here. I challenge any Member here present, anyone, to indicate a country of the world — a country of the world! — with legislation similar to the nonsense that we are going to approve here today. There is no example in the world of subsidiarity between euthanasia and suicide, which, as anyone would understand, is an absolute nonsense. To tell people that they can resort to euthanasia if they cannot kill themselves, for those who see us, it is a legislative nonsense, an immorality, a political aberration. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And Mr President of the Republic, who knows this well, says to the House: « My dear ones, please do anything». The PS runs away from the dissolution and runs behind time. The Block and the PCP want to tell their voters that they've got something. Since they have achieved nothing with management, they can now say that they have achieved euthanasia. It is unlikely that this law will ever come into force, not only because it still has a case before it, as because it will be subject to the supervision of the Constitutional Court, will have to have rules of regulation on which the President of the Republic will also have a word to say. My dear ones, have no illusions: it is not the day, nor the hour, nor the time. This law will not enter into force. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u32	This law will never enter into force, because, if one day the regulation, absurdly, has already been completed and the President has allowed it, as long as your time is so short, I am sure there will be a majority in this Parliament who will repeal the law and undertake to send this law here to the trash can. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is that this is not a matter of freedom, nor of decision. It's a matter of aberration. For people to know, what is at stake is to say that those who do not have the conditions to commit suicide will resort to euthanasia. And he asks the President and asks the many lawyers who looked at this law: "What are these conditions? We don't know. The doctor will decide. There will be no doctor in Portugal who applies a written law in these terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u34	There will be no one, because he will be thinking, above all, of the consequences for his life. What you have achieved is not a law of euthanasia. They got a legal aberration...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u36	...that will only humiliate us abroad and give only doctors and nurses more legal insecurity when they have to apply. They have achieved three: they have reached a huge conflict with the President of the Republic — conflict which, in fact, they wanted, as seen by the attitude of the Prime Minister — to create a law that no one will ever implement and have managed to tell the Portuguese that, at the end of 20 years of discussion, from there to there with the legislative process, the best thing we have is a legal aberration that would shame a student of the first year of any faculty of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u38	This is what we have achieved, and this is what will come. I would like to make a very clear note here: not only is the escape of the referendum an escape from democracy, as this law is, as it is, structurally violates our democracy. on our part, there remains a commitment to the Portuguese, as we have already said, that the first bill of a right-wing majority in this House will be to repeal the law of euthanasia. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u39	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: contrary to what we have just heard today, it is not a debate for jokes or big phrases for social networks. It is a debate in which we are called to give voice not to a majority, but to the sensitivity and respect for the dignity of the human person, in all stages of his life, including when the person, unable to decide how to live, has the right to decide how to die, when he is in irrecoverable and irreversible suffering. This debate, not a majority, is a debate of the most fundamental justice of a rule of law. That is why the NAP, as the other political forces subscribing it, will once again lead to the re-evaluation of this decree. This is because it was precisely the advances and the setbacks that have brought us here, that is to say, a very broad debate, with hearings, which allowed not only to consolidate this legal framework, but also to convene for regulation what is to be regulated. And, beyond this stage, it is essential that the regulation, after the promulgation of this diploma, happens as quickly as possible, because we cannot continue to leave these people, these lives, suspended. to the Constitutional Court whatever it is now of the Constitutional Court, it is unfortunate that the political forces that have already decided what they will do. We are confident that this text meets all constitutional conditions so that it will actually be promulgated and can be properly applied. It will therefore be, in strict compliance with the Constitution, but also a greater duty, that to all of us, Members of this House of the Republic, it is up to us, which is the possibility, with empathy and respect for the dignity of the human person and for the free will of each one of us — free from our prejudices and our personal and even religious convictions — to legislate to give just solutions in society. [[P.S., BE, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u41	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition of the CFP to the legalization of euthanasia is known and was expressed in all the debates that were held in the last two legislatures. Of course, the CFP will maintain its sense of vote. We reaffirm that the PCP's option to vote against the legalization of euthanasia has not been taken lightly and results in a profound reflection on a topic that, due to its complexity, the concerns that arise and the values that are at issue, cannot be dealt with or discussed from positions of moral superiority, intellectual arrogance or any kind of manicism. We reaffirm that we have always refused to view the debate on euthanasia as a war of religions against atheisms or the left against the right. It is a legislative option and not a judgment on individual consciences, which is decided upon by the State rather than by individuals. What is decided is not about the individual option of each individual over the end of his life, but the attitude to be taken by the State regarding the final phase of the life of the citizens. Individual autonomy is something that must be respected, but we cannot be deluded either, because an organized society is not a mere sum of individual autonomy. The legislator cannot assume a legislative option on the life and death of people, without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of that option, the society in which the effects of the decisions will occur. in a table, we recall that, frequently, the value of human life is relativized, on the basis of criteria of social utility, economic interests, family responsibilities and charges or public expenses, the legalization of euthanasia will add new risks that we cannot forget. We reaffirm that this is not a debate between those who value more or less the dignity of human life, who devalues it more or less. The dignity of each one before the circumstances of his own death is something that no one is able to judge. The individual dignity is not discussed here, no matter who it is. We are debating whether a State, which denies many citizens the means to live properly, which denies conditions of treatment and care, should guarantee them the legal means to anticipate death. We insist that the Portuguese State cannot continue to deny to most of its citizens the health care they need, particularly in times of greatest suffering. The creation of a network of palliative care with universal character must be a priority. Portugal cannot create legal instruments to help die when it does not guarantee material conditions to help live. Through good medical practices, rejection of the use of therapeutic obstination and respect for the autonomy of individual will, expressed through the anticipated manifestations of will, which the law allows, the duty that the State has is to ensure that death is always assisted, but not anticipated. This is the position of the CFP, which we reaffirm here today. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u43	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After, on 31 March last, we were confronted with one more version of the law on assisted drug death — this version that did not limit itself to reviewing the rule on which the judgment of unconstitutionality lay down, but resolved to go further, amending two other rules, which substantially changes the relationship between assisted suicide and euthanasia — in this law the patient ceases to have the right to choose between assisted suicide or euthanasia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u46	...because, now, the patient can only resort to and choose euthanasia when the assisted drug suicide is impossible, due to their physical disability. It also adds that the administration of lethal drugs by the medical or health care professional occurs only when the patient is physically disabled from self-administering. We therefore believe that the doubts raised by the President of the Republic, when he questions and asks for clarification, firstly, who defines the physical inability of the patient to self-administer lethal drugs and, secondly, who ensures his medical supervision, are natural and legitimate. For the parties proposing this law, there is no doubt, only certainty. They ignored and devalued the doubts of the President of the Republic, in the name of representative democracy, even though the cost of ideology will count on lives. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the decision to live or die is personal, matter of the sphere of each one, i.e. if someone kills himself, this is considered a mere fact that remains within his own personal legal sphere. The different thing is to need, in order to kill, another person or the State, such as assisted suicide or euthanasia, because we are already in the sphere of social fact. And when it comes to a social fact, other issues will have to be equationd. There is no doubt that each and every one of us has the right and the freedom to make a personal choice, until that choice is not to live, which may seem to legitimize each deper himself, in this Chamber, the decision to approve or reject this law. But the truth is that one can hardly recognize the existence of a proportional and effective correspondence between the individual vote expressed by each of us, Members and Members, based on our individual conscience and on our moral and ethical standards, and the collective will of the generality of Portuguese and Portuguese, elective citizens, who voted on us and we represent. This is therefore a matter of relevant national interest for the PSD, which directly implies the community assumption of a non-return path. He therefore understood, and understood, that the Portuguese should have been called upon to pronounce themselves, with the conduct of a national referendum. For the PSD, it is even imperative to provide the Portuguese people with the opportunity to speak on this issue, but for purely formal reasons our proposal has been rejected. Those who were harmed were the Portuguese people, prevented from speaking on a matter of enormous sensitivity, which cannot be seen as a mere medical issue, forgetting the moral and awareness issues and forgetting the reality in which we live, in a frightening society where there are more and more elderly people living with little health, abandoned, weakened, fragile, in a country that does not care for them as they should. [[PSD applause.]] Do not take care of them, nor of thousands of citizens, without a doctor, without continuous or palliative care, without specialist consultations and without access to surgeries. What the Portuguese need is a social system in which suffering is widely avoided or reduced, without people having to be confronted with the need to ask for death.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u48	Living decently, affectionately and physically accompanied must be the translation of living with dignity. People do not need us to be a society in which the last act of dignity is not asking to live, but to die. As we know that we are dealing with each other's awareness forum, we will maintain the decision to give Members and PSD Members free of voting. Finally, I would like to say here to the Portuguese and Portuguese that, once this law is passed, there are a number of PSD Members and Members who are committed to the Portuguese people's analysis of the diploma in question, with a view to making a request for the subsequent supervision of constitutionality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u49	Mr Ventura has the floor for a new intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, it was important to ask ourselves whether we are all, or not, in agreement that this is a matter of conscience. We are. And if it is a matter of conscience, it was important for the Portuguese to be heard on this matter. Some will say that there are fundamental rights that do not refer to. Portugal has referred twice—I repeat: twice! — the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Both the Constitutional Court accepted the referendum... [[L. Protests.]] ... and the two major parties protagonists were precisely the PSD and the Socialist Party. At the time, the PSD was then led by the current President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. The Portuguese should be heard on this matter, but the fear of the left in losing this debate is greater than any legal certainty and predictability that can be given to people. Even so, they know what all Portuguese know: this law will never really come into force until it is referred to by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u52	Those who try to ignore it ignore the obvious fact that it is a law so fracturing, so divisive that no doctor, no nurse, no health professional will agree to put in it their action and their signature, knowing of the insurmountable doubts that there is and knowing that the law has never been validated by the Portuguese people. The challenge is not less democracy or less representativeness, the challenge is to accept more democracy, not to be afraid of the Portuguese, nor of their judgment and to go to vote, to decide, in our perspective, the obvious: a country that does not have palliative care to treat its elderly cannot have laws to kill its elderly. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u53	For a new intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u55	You have so much support that the galleries are empty! No one's backing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u56	I ask Mr Pedro Frazão to be silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is also good to know that most of us know that we are dealing with a matter not of conscience, but of criminal policy and human rights. I would like to conclude by saying that we are also with most of the judges and judges of our Constitutional Court who have recognized this right and this self-determination. I also say that it is good to know that we are with the Constitutional Courts that are taking a decision on this matter, such as the Austrian Constitutional Court, which states this, for example: "The right to individual self-determination, arising from the right to respect for private life, the right to life and the principle of equality, includes freedom to put an end to one's own life with the assistance of third parties. Respect for self-determination and for the dignity of a capable person, who asks to be assisted in the act of dying, implies that it cannot be forced to live in conditions of suffering, which considers inhuman and unworthy. The absolute prohibition of aid to suicide could lead a person to put an end to life in a degrading way. Do not keep on seeking. ” And that's why today, as I said, is worthy, is fair and so expected. And that is why, today, in addition to reaching April, it is also a day of pacification of society, a free and plural society that wants a subject, which is so yours, to be included in the law. And, yes, today is even April and a very fair day. [[P.S., BE, P.N. and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u58	Isabel only proposes death laws! You can't talk about life, just death!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u59	That is how we end this item on the agenda. We move on to point 2, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No 617 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends to the Government that no public body may require a document issued by another public body, implementing a procedure allowing communication between public bodies to obtain such documents, as well as generally Bills No. 659 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Eliminates the obligation to affix the car insurance disticulum, 710 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Withdraw the temporary character from permanent certainty, 714 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the payment obligation to comply with the annual IES requirement, 715 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminate unjustified validity deadlines in online certificates and 753 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Creates a unique heritage base that enables the sharing of heritage data between conservatories of the real estate registry, Tax Authority, Authorities and IMT. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, after a few seconds allowing the re-arrangement of the benches, may come to the gallery to present the projects of the Liberal Initiative. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are behind the speaker, who are correcting this position, are not polite. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen standing, please sit down, so that we can continue the debate. This debate is as important as the previous and the following. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen : I will not spend the little time I have to defend because a death certificate should not expire at the end of six months or explain the injustice of fineing someone who, being sure, did not put any paper in the windshield. Nor will I spend this time justifying why no one should be forced to pay for a declaration obligation or why permanent certifications should not be temporary. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] These four proposals are so simple and obvious that being here explains them would be insulting your intelligence, as it rejects them will be insulting the intelligence of those who put you here. It would be, above all, a waste of time, and time is a precious good thing. For every hour it is useless for the Portuguese to turn to bureaucracy, it is less than an hour that they spend with the family, at work, resting or having fun. For every hour they line up to fill roles in various bureaucracies, it is actually less than an hour of life, that serious life they have. Time lost in bureaucracies is not counted in GDP (gross domestic product) nor enters into government revenues, but has a real cost in the lives of people and businesses. I will not be unjust to say that the elimination of bureaucracy has not been a concern. Some of them were eliminated and the digitization of some processes eliminated waiting hours for some. But for each bureaucracy that is eliminated, by each digitised process, there are other bureaucracies, other processes, such as legislative mushrooms, ready to rob people of their lives. Our draft resolution today is, at the same time, simple and transformative. We propose that public administration bodies gradually cease to be able to demand that citizens waste time collecting documents issued by other public administration bodies themselves. In recent months we have received reports of people who, having to deal with a case in the public body A, were required a document issued by the public body B. Not only did these people have to lose hours of work to go to body B, as often the deadline required by public body A was shorter than the time limit when body B could deliver the document. In one of the most absurd cases, a person who applied for a job at a university saw that he was required to have a diploma issued by the same university. That person had to come back the next day to ask for the diploma and, a few days later, to pick up that document and deliver it in the same guiché, where he had received it a few minutes earlier. None of this makes sense. This is a disrespect for people's time and lives. If a municipal chamber daily needs several certifications issued by the civil registry, will it not make sense that, instead of demanding that every citizen wastes his time to search them, the municipal chamber itself asks them together directly to the entities issuing them? Why do tens of people waste their time when everything can be done internally within the Public Administration? Now, let's multiply these tens of people by the various agencies of the Public Administration, and multiply by the hours that each of these people loses and realize the size of the time we could save people if we started this process. The Public Administration itself would win if this issue of documents were done internally. Public officials saved thousands of hours, every year, caring for people, managing rows, explaining processes. We would also have a more efficient public function. With this mechanism of obtaining documents in the Public Administration, we would make public service more efficient, faster processes and, more importantly, return time to people. And time, which is so important. Everything would be so simple, just want it and I hope you all want it. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u61	To submit Bill No. 753 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project we bring today is also a consequence of 49 years in which we understand that we live in a society, in a country that is clearly haunted by the left. Portugal is haunted by the left when, in order to be owner and have private initiative, if it is almost persecuted because of stigma, which has come since 1974, above the private ones and above the right to private property which was so recently shaken by the proposed housing law presented by this government and which ultimately violates the principle of private property. over these years it has been much easier to have a house given by the state than to have the initiative to buy a land, build your home and do a work, often, of life. What we have seen here is the creation of a unique heritage base. It makes no sense that, after writing, we are having a number of problems and that anyone who buys or builds a house must then go to the Tax and Customs Authority, to the municipal chamber and who is going to run by a number of state agencies, without being able to solve them, including the payment of the IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) by means. What we propose is simple, to use the means we have, that is, the modernization and digitization on which the PS so much screams and says that it has done and is doing work, but at the same time we realize that the state machine is strangled. It's basically to tell you that we're going to do what we used to say a few days ago, it's the Simplex on the right. We will, in fact, ensure that something productive is done for people and for those who have initiative, because it is ridiculous to continue with this need for document creation behind documents, taking up the time, as has been said, and well, by Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, right now, of this rostrum. What we propose is simple, it is a single document, which is cross-sectional and which, once and for all, ends this bureaucracy, which has led to extreme spending and which makes people waste their time. It was currently applied in municipal chambers, including, facilitating work and would avoid, for example, so many people, as we see in municipal budgets, being hired to be developing and creating processes that could be simplified. You tear your clothes apart and yell constantly on the issue of modernization and digitisation. We already know that the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) is late, we already know that the execution rates are very bad and well below what would be expected. Now the time has come and, once and for all, I want to understand what the Socialist Party's position is, what is the reason to lead an initiative of these. The only reason to lead an initiative of these is clear: it is because the initiative is presented by the Arrival, even if it proposes something that clearly facilitates the life of all those who have built houses, at the cost of their work, with their money and who, after that, still have to pay a number of taxes, such as the IMI (municipal property tax) — but we will not get there. What we now want is simplification, a single document. We do not want this bureaucracy which takes months to resolve, for example, if we want to make a change in private property and take bureaucracy behind bureaucracy. It is simple, it is easy, it is effective: it is only to approve this proposal of the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u63	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD cannot fail to congratulate IL on this schedule, and obviously accompanies concerns about modernising and simplifying our Public Administration and, consequently, eliminating bureaucracy and redundancy that unfortunately still characterize it. The PSD has been drawing attention for a long time and has, in particular in this legislative session, presented concrete proposals for recommendations to the Government, in this regard, on the accessibility of public services and on the efficiency and effectiveness of the Public Administration. As far as the first is concerned, we have been here a little while ago to discuss this through the guarantee of presence, without reservations or artificial obstacles, as unfortunately still happens today with the maintenance of the requirement, without any justification, of a previous marking to perform a service; restricting, as we know, the constitutional right of all citizens freely and without discrimination to the services of the Public Administration and leading to surreal situations, such as the mafia of the passwords. [[PSD applause.]] But also at the level of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Public Administration, through the rationalization of the structure of the Advisory Public Administration, of the State, given the proliferation of bodies and institutes that no one knows exist but that no one also knows what they serve, leading to absurdities like the one we have seen recently, when the government has created an observatory of the prices that had already existed since 2015. In fact, there is a widespread feeling that the process of modernization and simplification of the State has stagnated or even returned in recent years. It proves this, in fact, are the recurrent annual records of complaints from the Ombudsman or platforms such as the Complaint Portal, regarding the responses of the Public Administration services or our experience as users, to whom we are required to make a prior marking to be treated from there one month or two, or even when we interact with the public services and we are required documents that the Public Administration would already have in its possession, sufficient for that it could communicate with each other. Even the Socialist Party itself recognises this deplorable state of affairs, to the point of having recently presented a draft resolution recommending to its own Government the strengthening of the promotion of innovation and modernization of public management for a simpler, speedy and efficient State in the service of people—in fact, a former Secretary of State who certainly does not see the process of simplifying the Public Administration. [[PSD applause.]] In this way, the PSD obviously follows the need for simplification that is underlying these initiatives today under discussion. However, we cannot agree with the concrete content of some of these proposals. Many of these proposals are motivated by inexperience or a desire to show signs in social media posts and reveal little weighting, little maturity of ideas and even little knowledge of the legislation already in force. If not, let us see: the project that eliminates the obligation to attach the car insurance policy, which Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto mentioned here, not only questions legal certainty as advertising to third parties in the event of a disaster. Although we know that the authorities have access to information without the need of the disticulum, where are the people injured in the case of a disaster? In the middle of an accident, is someone gonna have a computer by hand to see if the other injured has the insurance in the day? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] The draft law that removes the temporary character to permanent certainty confuses permanent certainty with permanent access to the certificate, which, of course, cannot fail to be validated once again by matters of legal certainty; and completely ignores the fact that for each register that a company does is obtained a certificate, which is valid for three months, and we all know that every year there is the need and the obligation to fill out the IES (Simplified Business Information), for which a new certificate with validity of three months is obtained. The draft resolution that recommends to the Government that no public body may require a document issued by another public body, with which there is no one who does not agree, is more than a recommendation to the Government to do exactly what is already in the law! Yes, in Decree-Law No 135 / 99 of 22 April, in which an amendment was introduced by the PSD Government in 2014, an article says this, Mrs. Members :« Citizens and economic agents shall be exempted from the submission of documents in possession of any service and body of the Public Administration when they give their consent to the service provider to obtain them. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, something very different would be to require the government to comply with the legislation that is already in force and that it cannot, in any way, be a dead law. We see the examples that IL points out in this draft resolution, as well as other more flagrant ones, that we all unfortunately experience in the day to day and that they are paradigmatic in a state that, rather than being the catalyst for the competitiveness of the economy, a lever of the private initiative, is a real obstacle to economic development. Finally, Mr President, although we recognize and see the need to simplify, which is underlying these proposals, the PSD being a party responsible, weighted and aware of the value of legal certainty, we will not be able to follow some of the initiatives currently under discussion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u65	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u66	Mr President, today the Liberal Initiative presents to us its package « Bidex 2 ». Therefore, the "Bidex 1" package was the one that had a proposal for a law on the compulsoryity of bidets, which they then removed; they said they would explain why they had withdrawn it, but they never explained exactly why they had removed it. As in this package « Bidex 1 », the Liberal Initiative confuses the boy with bath water, because, among some things that are part of our obligations as legislators — to identify where there are absurds in state procedures and to correct them one by one — it presents a somewhat Maoist idea, a great leap forward, in which the State simplifies by decree, ending up paradoxically, resulting in a more centralizing state than what was originally desired. This, in order not to reach those exaggerations that the State is totalitarian, requires a person who takes a insurance for his car to affix, once a year, a role in the windshield. It is the equivalent of suddenly, from one moment to another, to live in a totalitarian state — which is indeed a huge disrespect for those who, yes, have lived or lived in totalitarian States. See the following: The Liberal Initiative wants to prohibit a public body from telling the citizen to bring a document that has to do with another public body. This results in a vision of the absolutely centralizing and homogeneous state, where the parish board may know about our IRS (tax on the income of natural persons), the criminal record or the health record of the National Health Service. [[IL protests.]] So paradoxically, the Liberal Initiative ends up having a state that crosses all databases, and that, as a left-wing libertarian, I must say: "I don't want to! Do not keep on seeking. ” I continue to say that it is a pity that in Portugal we do not have liberals. We have not, and now, since we have the Liberal Initiative in Parliament, we have not yet, which is a pity, because we need our political life — but unfortunately these are not. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President, very good day to all. Continuing our agenda, for an intervention, I have the floor of Mrs Anabela Real of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has developed the administrative simplification of procedures through the commitment to investment, modernisation and strengthening the use of new technologies and information systems. The digitisation, technological innovation and interoperability of systems at the service of everyone and the economy reinforce trust and territorial cohesion. The transformation of service and availability models into cross-sectional single-beam services, multi-channel supply and online platforms has made it possible to facilitate and streamline procedures. Free mobile application BUPi (Single Building Balcony) was launched, which facilitates the identification of property limits through a mobile phone, and creates a geospatial competence centre to support the operation of the Single Balcony, which allows the sharing of knowledge and information. The launch of the remote service platform at the Institute of Registers and the Notariado allowed the realization of authentic acts using videoconferencing, with an optimized management of human resources which, at the same time, relieved the fronts of care, avoiding lines and extended waiting times. Online requests can now be made for certificates, applications for nationality, company name, automatic renewal of the citizenship card and its delivery at home, birth registration, first citizen card, death declaration, special measures for Ukraine, removal of passwords, etc. The subscription of a permanent certificate is simple and secure and gives greater transparency to the commercial register, and it has been the will of the subscribers to renew this service, which avoids bureaucracy. All dematerialization of processes through digital platforms has allowed to reduce costs and time for citizens and businesses. The registered emolument is based on the remuneration of the acts performed, calculated on the basis of the actual cost of the service provided, update, nature of the acts and complexity. The development and maintenance of these platforms require high state investments, which impact on the services provided. These costs, resulting from subscription or renewal, are not exhausted in performing the acts, but are prolonged over time, insofar as they involve continuous follow-up for the purposes of support and evolutionary maintenance of the platforms in which they are developed. The legislative initiative of the Liberal Initiative aims to remove the temporary nature of the online certificate by revoking a rule that concerns paper certifications and has a six-month validity period. Attributing vitality to paper certainty puts in crisis the principle of legal confidence and may open the door to the practice of invalid legal acts with the use of valid but outdated certificate, with incorrect information, and which may, for example, be the ownership of the business, headquarters or management society. The legislative initiative of the Liberal Initiative, which also proposes to eliminate validity deadlines in online certitudes, has a clear contradiction since, if birth and death are immutable, other realistic facts can be extinguished, facts such as marriage, maternity and profiling, which can be successfully challenged or annulled; and, if there is a material change underlying the registration, the certificate must be required. The proposed legislative amendment to Article 215. that of the Civil Register Code intends to withdraw validity to online certificates, when this Code does not specify any period of validity for the certificates to be issued from registration acts. As regards the supply of emoluments payments or the revision of their amounts, they may even be reviewed without jeopardising legal certainty, sufficient to create legal standards for this purpose. This understanding is supported by opinions of the Advocates' Order, the Supreme Council of the Magistrature and the Institute of Registers and the Notary. With regard to the reached legislative initiative for the creation of the single capital base, it is unnecessary, insofar as the entities referred to therein, within their competences, are already responsible for the management and treatment of data from their information systems. The interoperability in the existing Public Administration (IAP) is already composed of a set of components that aim to provide an easy and integrated method of providing cross-border electronic services, becoming a key part in the process of administrative modernization of the State. The Agency for Administrative Modernisation operates iAP so that the data can flow between bodies, ensuring compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, that a unique heritage base such as the one currently proposed may be called into question. And it will always be said that the Government's measures are under way in which the harmonisation of existing information in the various databases in the register area and in the tax administration are already planned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u70	... in the context of amendments which the Ministry of Justice will make, in the context of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and in various computer applications of the Institute of Registers and the Notary, but which, of course, require a densification of its regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u71	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Simplify, facilitate access to public services and give them closer proximity to citizens must be a plan of the Public Administration itself. However, we are faced here with a set of initiatives of the Liberal Initiative, which effectively does not take into account the implications of these proposals in all their dimensions. In addition, with the proposals it brings, the Liberal Initiative seeks to avoid the real problems faced by citizens in accessing public services, because the real problems — and I would like to put this issue — are, in fact, the need to strengthen the number of workers, so that there is no delay in public services and there can be time and time care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u74	The basic question is that of the effective extension and coverage of present public services, which allow citizens to have access to them, but this set of issues, which are central, the Liberal Initiative does not address. So let us go to the proposals that the Liberal Initiative brings to the debate. Regarding the sharing of information between public services, the truth is that the proposal presented here does not ensure the need for protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u76	In dealing with various issues in public services, when there is consent on the part of the citizen, there is already the possibility of sharing this information. But only when there is such consent, I repeat, and that is a central issue in this matter, because the question of sharing personal data cannot be addressed in this way, as the Liberal Initiative brings the debate. Of course, caution must be exercised and the request for such documents must first be made by the citizens. Other proposals which the Liberal Initiative brings here relate to online certifications and permanent certainty. On online certifications, the Liberal Initiative makes no distinction between the type of certifications, treating birth and death certifications as it treats the marriage certificate; and if there are questions that, with regard to birth and death, we can address in a certain way, with respect to marriage we cannot do so, because there are circumstances in which even it can be dissolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u78	More: I would like to add that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy draws attention to the fact that the Civil Registry Code does not establish any period of validity for civil registration certificates, nor does it refer to online certificates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u79	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u80	Because it brings a question of validity, but validity is not that of certainty. Validity is that of access to the certificate, and when introducing a negative standard in the Civil Code, as proposed, refers to a period which does not correspond to the time limit of the certificate. Therefore, we are dealing with aspects that are substantially different in this matter. There may be another issue here, but this was not raised by the Liberal Initiative, which is the cost associated with this online access code. On this point, nothing refers; what it refers to is indeed within a time limit that does not exist. And the same could be said about permanent certainty. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: there are aspects that are brought here and treated in a way, let me say, that it does not take into account the real issues that must be addressed and dealt with. As we have mentioned, we believe that procedures should be adopted that effectively simplify and facilitate the lives of citizens, but this cannot call into question aspects that are fundamental, such as personal data; nor can it introduce added difficulties, when there are aspects that the Civil Code itself does not, today, put, for example, the deadline for the certitudes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u81	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Liberal Initiative for bringing this debate, and I must start with a criticism for then continuing to agree. Criticism is that when a set of ad hoc initiatives is presented — it is done on time — it goes next to a holistic view of the system, an expression that the Liberal Initiative really likes. From that point of view, this is the main criticism of this agenda because, in fact, it unfolds in the many inconsequential forms of bureaucracy in our state or in those that oppress people, also in our state, it can unfold in whole years of schedules that fail in a systemic analysis of the situation. But I would like to say that on the left side of the Block we follow all attempts to simplify the relationship between citizens and the state. It seems relevant to us to safeguard in this debate subjects of citizens' rights which are inalienable, such as the right to their personal information. We do not have an immobilistic view of this, and therefore it seems to us that it is desirable to have a greater interlinkage of State bodies, public bodies, and that there can be such interlinkage of information with safeguard of individual information. A very visible example of this is what happens in the health system: we are not afraid of going to a hospital or health centre, even in different geographical areas, and in any one of these locations, if everything goes well with the computer system, health professionals can access data from our health information; and they do so safely, even with information to the user. For example, if I am a doctor other than my own, other than the doctor who normally accesses my registry, I soon receive the information that a certain professional has access to my clinical information, and that is even a transparency that the State can and must comply with. Therefore, we believe that it is possible to combine, either the interconnection of information within the State, or the safeguarding of privileged, individual information, and from this point of view, whenever the State does not do so, the responsibility is the State, because it has an obligation to do so. However, we also find it unacceptable to criticize that for everything and something else, we should be running to ask for certificates from the State. It doesn't make sense that this happens, and therefore there is a path that can be traced to ensure that we don't have to walk, over and over again, asking for unnecessary certifications. Let us follow that reality. Another issue — and I believe this is devalued in the project of the Liberal Initiative — is that of the certitudes that can change over time. There must be a need, or ease, for the assessment of certain information at a given time. For example, a property can be sold and I, who was the previous owner of that property, still keep your property record; and if it is not updated, if I do not have that obligation to update, then I can go through who has that property. The same is true of the civil situation. I have a record when I'm married, but if I get divorced, that information is no longer valid. Therefore, there are elements on the update of information that, from this point of view, the Liberal Initiative does not safeguard. However, it seems to us that the assumption behind the initiative is valid: it makes no sense to be permanently spending money on access to information that is ours and that should already be available, free of charge or at least at lower cost. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u83	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Well, we have heard a number of opinions here and heard the Socialist Party say "We have done, we have done, we have done..." In fact, since the time of José Socrates, the Socialist Party launched the Simplex and presented a lot of things, it's just a shame not to work! Most things don't work for the population, and people can't use such services in a simplified way as the Socialist Party presented in its measures. [[Pause.]] [[For example?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u85	We understand perfectly that, in the matter of digitization, despite the effort made here, the Socialist Party has clearly penalized the oldest. Forget all about the old ones! They try a logic of digitization, without merely modernizing; they create purely digital documents, without realizing that the single documents do not necessarily have to be all purely digital, which can continue in other versions and the cost of paper — the question of paper cost seems the logic of « Paper. What role? », etc. — make the older ones not excluded. In addition to older people, we continue to have, following yesterday's debate, the issue of the interior of the country, where accessibility and digital means are very low, because you do not invest in the means so that the interior has access to digitalisation. Therefore, or we exclude the inside of all this digitization and tell those people who are not part of this money process spent by the PRR because we do not look at them and we do not accept that they participate... They have no way of doing, in Trás-os-Montes or the Algarves mountains, because there is no internet, and you need to know the Real Country, once and for all, to realize that the proposals for modernization and digitization should indeed be the way to the future, but that there is, by the way, a whole route that needs to be done; otherwise, quick proposals such as the social rates of the Internet, that we have already talked about here, that have not worked and that have not at least met the objectives, which have reached 0, 06 % of the Government's objectives, make a large part of the population in Portugal, the ageing population, not able to enter into your logic of digitization which completely forgets. One thing you can be sure about, you don't forget about them, you don't leave them behind. We believe that the path is digitization, but weighted, phased and so as not to extinguish the presence public services, which are so often important. I am going to tell you one thing, for older people, often the only day they leave home, when they have the chance to get ready, is to go to these services, because they are in completely isolated areas and they have absolutely nothing more. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the Liberal Initiative for bringing these matters to debate, and we would begin with a previous issue, because in the view of the NAP it is clear that there should be no fees or emoluments without any kind of counterpart or associated service. I remember that we had a proposal to study all rates without counterpart, both nationally and locally, but this Parliament has led to it. We are still sensitive to humanized public services and, therefore, we have been able to predict, in the past legislature, the freeness of the attestations passed by the parish to people in homeless situations. Taking into account what is being brought into the debate today — and nothing of this dimension is brought through the Liberal Initiative — we see some useful proposals, such as the smoothing of fines for not presenting the car insurance statistics or the extension of the deadlines of the certificates and also the insistence on greater interoperability of public services. Only that these proposals are some kind of Improving, they don't do well or do harm and therefore they don't deserve our opposition. But there is another dimension that we cannot, however, immediately follow the elimination of the annual completion of the IES. This is a dangerous proposal, not only because it can be a door to greater difficulties in compliance services and tax evasion, but also because it can challenge workers' rights. Nor can we follow up with hasty proposals which, as the Advocates' Order tells us, may originate invalid legal acts resulting from the use or instruction of a valid but outdated certificate. And we are very surprised that the Liberal Initiative has not taken care of cautioning these issues, which the Order itself mentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of this debate. To that end, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, I thought that some of these proposals did not need to be explained, but, of course, they do need to be explained. I begin with Mrs. Sofia Matos, who said, in her speech, that she would need to walk with a computer back to see if people are safe or not. Let me give you something new, and welcome to the twentieth century : you will not need to walk with your ZX Spectrum back to access the internet; the website to see if cars have insurance is accessible by the phone. The speaker posted a cell phone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u90	What if I have a Nokia 3310? Oh, my God! Or if you don't have a cell phone? Oh, my God! What if you don't have a battery? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u91	If the person does not have a cell phone, the person is required to load the green card in the car. So it's excused. Welcome to the 20th century! I also welcome you to the 19th century to the PS deputy who said that there are online certitudes that can be changed and that therefore have to be reviewed. Mrs. Member, an online certificate is updated automatically! Therefore, there is no need for a new issue to be updated. Worse than that, companies and people pay for the update, that is, they will pay twice: they will pay for the update and then, to renew it, to have access to it again. None of this makes sense. He then made a valid criticism, which was that our proposal should not apply to physical certitudes. You are quite right, there is only one question: that is no longer in the proposal, magazine, which we have tabled. So if that was your excuse for voting against our proposal, that apology disappeared, because our proposal was revised and that part that criticized disappeared. We read the opinions, we understood what the opinions had to say and we changed our proposal. I hope that you will also be able to change your sense of vote, now that you have realized that the main criticism they had is no longer there. Another Member who clearly has not read the proposals, Mr Rui Tavares, but also only makes speeches on Twitter...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u92	Me? For Twitter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u93	I don't think you've noticed...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u94	I'm critical of interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u95	...or he didn't read. I hope that one day, if you have more Members, you will have time to read the proposals you are talking about. [[Protests by Member of the L.]] Finally, with regard to the Member of the CFP, it is obvious that what we are advocating is that public bodies can only access people's information if people give them permission to do so; if people do not give them permission to do so and they want to be themselves seeking the necessary certificates, then they can do so. We are opening up a possibility, which is as follows: they are asked for a certificate and people say: « I don't want to go get her, I give you permission to go get her». That's just it! It is to simplify, giving people a chance not to waste time. Honestly, I started this discussion by saying that I didn't want to insult your intelligence, but I heard speeches of ideological jactancy, and I ask you to keep the ideological jactancy for those subjects that are really important — for education, for health, where we actually have ideological differences. [[Eries from PSD deputy Sofia Matos.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a role in the windshield. Get judgment! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u96	Get judgment, you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u97	Before moving to the next item on our agenda, I would like to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen. Members not to exceed their speaking time. I have made an effort not to interrupt the speakers and the speakers, but there have been abuses that must not continue. Let us then move on to point three of our agenda, which is generally discussed in Law Projects Nos 568 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Mitigating the rupture of medicines in Portugal by production made by the National Medicines Laboratory, 447 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure access to medicines, glasses, hearing aids and dental prostheses through their participation, 525 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Scheme for the participation of medicinal products, medical devices and supplements for enteric and parenteral feeding, 746 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Financial support scheme for the acquisition of glasses and lenses, dental prostheses, hearing aids and orthopedic footwear, 748 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Sets the conditions under which the National Laboratory of Medicine can produce medicinal products in a situation of rupture or highly expensive, 749 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends the beneficiaries of the additional health benefits and ensures the participation of the acquisition of hearing aids and orthopedic material, amending Decree-Law No 252/2007 of 5 July, 750 / XV/1. a ( PAN) — It enables the recovery of VAT of acquisitions of medical equipment or equipment by IPSS, amending Decree-Law No 84 / 2017 of 21 July and Resolution Projects No 546 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency drug import model, 561 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the capacity and competences of the National Medicines Laboratory, 612 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Close access to the medicine and 613 / XV / 1. a (IL) — For the sustainability of access to medicine and medical devices. To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are repeatedly attacked by news about the lack of medicines in our country. And while some might say that it is the problem of inflation, which results from the war of Ukraine, which results from failures in supply chains worldwide, resulting from the pandemic, in fact, these news are already old. In 2019 there was news of several thousand, whether of drugs or of substances necessary for their manufacture, which were missing in national and international markets. Being sure that for some of these failures there are therapeutic alternatives, these therapeutic alternatives often occur with an increase of cost, either for the National Health Service or, in particular, for the users. In other words, the same treatments become more expensive for the state and become more expensive for people, for families. But it is also true that the institutes that deal with this matter tell us that this is not the reality, because the problem is not always money. There are 13 % of these lacks of medicines or substances that have an average impact on users and there are 3 % of those that have a high impact on the health of users. When we talk about percentages, it is appropriate to turn this into absolute numbers: there are hundreds of medications that fail, which are needed, with a high impact on the health of users. What are the reasons for this to happen? There are problems that may exist, both in production and in distribution, and we do not ignore them, but this is not the main group of problems we have encountered. The main problem is that there is a pharmaceutical industry game to create a difficulty in access to the medicine and thus blackmail to then increase the price, to earn more profit in selling the medicine. That's unacceptable! The profits of them cannot be at the expense of the health of all of us, but that is the game that is being imposed by the pharmaceutical industry. We might ask: but are prices in Portugal so different from those in other countries? No, they are exactly the same rules that exist in the other European countries. In fact, prices are equal to those of richer countries than we, with higher wages than our own, and so we could even say that compared with our purchasing power, we paid more for the same drugs than they pay for, for example, a Spanish family, a French family or an Italian family. That is why this is not a Portuguese problem; it is a problem, in fact, of an industry that is carteling itself to prevent access to the medicine, depending on only and only on its profit, of its benefit. There are those who say — I know it will be the discourse of the Liberal Initiative — that the consequence should then be this: liberalise, withdraw price limits for the sale of medicines.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u99	I'm not gonna say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u100	The consequences are visible, they are unequivocal. This would transform all medicines—and we talked about essential products to health—into more expensive products and would result in a clear loss of the benefit of this price control for families, which would pay more and would have even more difficulties in access to health. This, in a context in which we are already told—and it is sufficient for our empirical experience to realize it—that the cost of health is even greater in times of crisis and that in Portugal there is already anyone who chooses to eat or buy the medicine. There are already those who arrive at the pharmacy and say: «Look, today I do not take this because I have no money to pay». If this reality exists, allowing the price to rise is an even greater social irresponsibility, and this would lead to greater problems in access to health. What, then, are the proposals that the Left Block brings? It brings two different proposals at two different levels. First, it proposes that the State, which has the capacity to produce medicines, in the National Medicines Laboratory, fulfils all the productive capacity it has. We know that the National Laboratory for Medicine already produces drugs for rare diseases, produces medicines in cases of urgency in some of the substances and is already the main producer of methadone. So there is no problem of productive capacity here. It exists, it is installed, it is not being used properly and therefore fulfils the strategic defence objective of our country. If there are missing medicines and if they can be produced in the National Laboratory of Medicine, then the administrative prohibitions are withdrawn and the legal possibility of the National Laboratory is given to comply with, with the production capacity that currently exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u101	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u102	I shall conclude, Madam President. On the other hand, we want those families that have difficulties, for example, in the purchase of glasses, glasses, hearing aids, dental prostheses, to have support from the State, in particular those families that have the greatest economic shortage, so that they will not fail to meet the need for access to health, which, as we know, is often at stake. These are our proposals, of the most elementary sense, and we hope they will make their way in this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u103	To submit Law Nos 525 and 746 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 561 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Access to medicines is a condition to ensure access to health for all users. The users are now faced with numerous difficulties: on the one hand, the worsening of living conditions and the loss of purchasing power introduce additional difficulties in the purchase of medicines; on the other hand, the lack of some medicines has been recorded, which does not allow adherence to therapy, and may lead to the worsening of their health status. It was at the initiative of the PCP that the National Laboratory for Medicine was created, an important tool for the production of medicines for the National Health Service, for users, at the lowest costs—both for the state and for the users—and it also allows to reduce the country's external dependence in this area. However, the Government did not do what was necessary: to invest, to provide the National Medicines Laboratory with the necessary equipment to enhance its productive capacity. Therefore, the CFP today proposes strengthening the means and competences of the National Medicines Laboratory. It is essential that the latter have more human, technical and facilities, which are equipped with the capacity to produce the most commonly used medicines and those in which there have been situations of failure or failure to supply, taking into account the recommendations of Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). It is important to keep in mind that these drug failures often result from the use of the pharmaceutical industry, because they want to get more profits, they want to sell drugs at higher prices. Therefore, often the circumstances in which we live at this time result in this way of action by the pharmaceutical industry. That is why it is so important to have in our country the Medicines Laboratory; but, of course, by means of which we can in fact ensure in our country what medicines are needed. The PCP also proposes 100 % participation of medicines for chronic patients and for users over 65 years of age and with economic impairment; sharing of devices with hybrid system or automatic insulin administration adjustment based on continuous monitoring of glucose for all eligible patients, regardless of age, and meeting the clinical criteria for treatment with these devices. We also propose the establishment of a special scheme for the sharing of supplements, including formulae, equipment and medical devices for enteric and parenteral nutrition, in the outpatient clinic and in the home; and the creation of a financial support scheme for the purchase of glasses and lenses, dental prostheses, hearing aids and orthopedic footwear for people with incomes less than 2 IAS ( Social Support Index ) and allowing beneficiaries to repay up to 80 % of these expenses. Ensuring this participation, ensuring access to medicines is, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, a condition to ensure access to health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u105	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mrs Lúcia Araújo da Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group, to whom I give the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin my speech to remind this House, because it is never too much to do - that the XXIII Constitutional Government is fulfilling its Electoral Programme and has four years to execute it, which is the time of the legislature. In the area of health and on these issues under discussion, proposed by the CFP, I mean that for type 1 diabetes, the Government sets as priorities the continued development of innovation policy for access to new medicines and medical devices, according to good practices and a favourable cost/benefit relationship. In short, I wanted to point out that according to the National Programme for Diabetes, of the Directorate-General for Health, more than 4100 people with type 1 diabetes are treated with insulin pumps, of which almost half of them are children; and that since 2020 all individuals with indication have access to treatment with insulin pumps. These treatments tripled since 2015, because at the time there were 1313 people who had access to insulin pumps. With regard to access to hybrid devices, the Ministry of Health considers that, regardless of age, all people with type 1 diabetes and clinical indication should have access to them, providing for coverage by 2023. On the other hand, through the establishment of a working group involving the Ministry of Health, among other health agencies, the scientific community and civil society, it is intended to update the strategy of measures to access treatment with new-generation devices, and the results of this work are expected to be completed at the end of May. Regarding participation in enteric and parenteral nutrition, this subject is also of concern to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, insofar as poor nutrition associated with the disease increases not only the risks of medical complications but also the costs of health. I would therefore like to remind Mrs Paula Santos, who has certainly forgotten, since she voted against the State budget, that Law No. 24 - D / 2022, which approved the State budget, includes a rule that determines to the Government the obligation to study the technical and financial viability of implementing a system of special participation of charges with enteric and parenteral nutrition outside the hospital context. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I ask: instead of making your demagogic number, why did you not ask Mr Minister of Health, as we did, to know the point of the feasibility study that was approved here? Madam Member, we do not align ourselves with demagogy, but we do worry about people and therefore look for the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u107	But they've already lined up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u108	In response to this request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member has come to talk about studies, we have come to talk about the creation of the scheme to ensure this participation and access.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u110	Exactly! There's a difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u111	I believe that, about demagogy and who wants to deceive who, we are talking about, making it clear that there is no such will on the part of the Socialist Party's Government, because, if there were, they would already have results and that would be in realisation. It is not — this is the reality! — and we propose that it be. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u112	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u113	To present Lein.os 748 Projects, 749 and 750 / XV / 1. a (PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in a country where 1 in 10 elderly people does not buy the medication prescribed for not having money to pay it, the right to health is not met. In a country where type 2 diabetics despair to find semigluted, essential for their treatment, the right to health is not met either. in a country where babies with rare and rare diseases, such as Matilde, are forced to petition or crowdfunding to access drugs that cost millions, the right to health is not met. in a country where an IPSS (the private institution of social solidarity), despite being the backbone of the State, cannot recover VAT (the value added tax) from acquisitions of medical equipment or equipment, the right to health is not being met either. And it is precisely for the right to health to be satisfied that today we bring a set of measures that we consider important for its strengthening. First, we propose that support for the purchase of medicinal products be extended to all elderly people who, not having the solidarity supplement for the elderly, after paying the pharmacy account end up with income below what is needed to access this support. It is not acceptable for an elderly person with the supportive supplement not to use an auditory device or not to buy orthopedic socks for lack of money. So we propose that the same be shared. Secondly, we want the National Laboratory for Medicine to be an active part of solving cases of stock failure at national level or where there is a need to ensure access to excessively expensive medicines, such as those necessary in rare and very rare diseases. This is not supposed to be the rule, but the exception. We do not want the National Laboratory of Medicine to compete with the pharmaceutical industry, but we do want it to be its backbone and complement whenever it is unable to respond to the needs of the market, the SNS and, above all, those who suffer from these diseases. Thirdly, solutions are intended to ensure an immediate response to situations of shortage, inability and failure to break up stocks of medicines. Therefore, we propose that, in this case, pharmacists be given the possibility of altering the therapeutic form, dose or size of the package of the prescribed medicinal product and that a communication channel be created between pharmacists and prescribers so that, in these cases, a viable alternative can be found for the patient. Finally, we propose that, once and for all, IPSS can recover VAT from acquisitions of medical equipment and equipment, thus making greater justice to the fulfilment of the right to health in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u115	To present the Resolution Project No 546 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), I give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word today is for those who often give us medication, who are the Members. Nurses. Today, May 12, is Nurse's International Day. My first word is for nurses because, once again, they are on strike at the SNS. Once again, they had to get to this point, because Minister Pizarro does not listen to them. Perhaps today Mr. Minister enters and leaves behind the Ministry, while more treatments, more consultations and more surgeries are postponed. Today, Nurse's International Day, many won't have in your public service a Mr. Nurse to deliver the medication to them. On the shortage of medicines, which are often given to us by nurses and pharmacists, I would like to remind you that it was the Parliamentary Group of Arrival that first brought this issue, this national cancer, which is the lack of remedies. Yes, because that is what people say on the street: "We lack remedies. Do not keep on seeking. ” In November last year, we had the very urgent hearings in the Health Committee on our request by Mr Bastonário of the Order of Physicians, Mr Bastonário of the Order of Pharmaceuticals, the National Pharmacy Association and INFARMED, all for this purpose. We have all been told that the lack of medicines in pharmacies is not at present, and being dramatic to all entities and to all the authorities that integrate the circuit, it is very important that this issue is discussed here today. Last year, Mrs. President and Mrs. Members, there have been months in which the registration amounted to 7 million and 500 thousand packages of missing medicines, more 114 % than in 2021. Again, on this subject we have a low-level portrait of the Portuguese nation: Bragança is the district where there are most medicines, where 98% of the pharmacy reported supply failures, followed by Vila Real, Castelo Branco, Braga and Madeira — all these regions with drug failures above 80 %. In fact, more than 850 medicines are being broken up in Portugal, of which there are no alternatives to 33 in the market. In Santarém, I did the exercise of entering a pharmacy, in the historical center, which serves a very old population, and what they gave me as an example was this bill. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. This seven-page pharmacy bill is March 2023: on the first page, we have 24 missing medicines, on a 31 list ; on the second page, we have 28 missing medicines, on a 33 list ; on the third page, we have 26 missing medicines, on a 33 list. These are the invoices that the pharmacy has in Portugal, and that is why they cannot respond to the needs of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There are already many patients in Portugal who travel to Spain with paper recipes to aviate their medicines. There are already many people asking for medicines from relatives and friends who are emigrated abroad. They can talk about the global context, supply chains, the relocation of production outside Europe, China or India, and even the quotas of the marketing authorisation holders, but the fact is that there are no medicines available to people. INFARMED may respond with mere export bans. In April, in addition, last April, INFARMED gave notice of the ban on the export of 154 medicines, more than 24 in the previous month. But what good is it to ban what you don't have anymore, what doesn't happen? It would be like Nicolás Maduro to ban the export of hunger to Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u117	All right! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u118	Once again the political corollary is proven: socialist policies can only produce one thing, the shortage of freedom, lack of wealth, food shortages and, as we have discussed today, the shortage of remedies for the poorest and the most crippled. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And those, Mrs. Members and Mrs President, the poorest and most crippled will stop treatment, they will suffer the brutal worsening of their diseases, they will have increased health costs, they will consume up to counterfeit drugs, they will come into despair, in sadness, they can think of suicide and even, in the deplorable head of the left Marxist, they can ask for euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u120	Although this problem has struck us for years, in the PRR we have not seen a point, a line, on national pharmaceutical reindustrialisation. A strategic sector for public health such as that of the medicine was also absent from the PRR. Didn't we learn anything from the millionaire purchases of immunological drugs, the cod vaccines? Or does national disability give way to European interests? It is essential to promote national pharmaceutical reindustrialisation, and therefore the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival accompanies some of the initiatives discussed today. However, we say that it will take years to be fulfilled. Therefore, today, the lack of medicines must be resolved with what we present: an emergency drug import model. Moreover, this project we propose to Portugal follows the example of many European countries which have successfully implemented this system, in particular Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Cyprus or Lithuania. We hope that this House, Madam President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, have the courage to approve this initiative of the Arrival, which, despite having the chance for all cursed in this House, is that of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, only plasma and without more, a mechanism that has been requested from us by the sector in the hearings, and on which everyone has been left extensive technical documentation. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u121	To present Resolution Projects Nos 612 and 613 / XV / 1. a ( IL), Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate brings back the discussion a topic of greater relevance, access, or lack of it, to medicines or medical devices that treat, cure or make the difference in people's lives. It is not acceptable for someone, particularly the most vulnerable, due to lack of money or State inertia, to have their access to health difficult. It is for this reason that the Liberal Initiative brings to the debate two proposals in order to ensure access to medicines and medical devices in proximity and with sustainability. Starting with the proximity, it is indisputable that community pharmacies are the real proximity networks, which allow patients to have access to medicines in quality, safety and comfort. For this reason, during the pandemic, there was a great advance in access to hospital benefit medicines. With the enormous commitment of the various entities involved, thousands of chronic patients began to receive their usual medicines in community pharmacies or even in their homes. in this process, the Community pharmacies had a fundamental role, which it is important not to take advantage of. The Liberal Initiative therefore considers that this exception measure should become the rule. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Health announced that about 150 000 people would benefit from the delivery of hospital medicines in community pharmacies. In March, the Order of Pharmaceuticals put in public consultation the standard with the safety rules that were necessary for this process. The Liberal Initiative welcomes this sensitivity and that it seems that measures are being taken in this direction, but it is important to ensure that these good intentions, like so many others that we have seen on the side of the Socialist Party, are not on the way. Community pharmacies, by their nature and capillary nature, play a decisive role and must therefore see their role strengthened. In a country with large asymmetries in accessibility and transport, with a majority aged population with an increasing prevalence of chronic diseases and comorbidities, and at a time when nearly 1 million and 700 thousand people do not have a family doctor, community pharmacies could make a huge contribution to the health system through monitoring and monitoring of chronic patients, or automatic renewal of medicines that they take for years, obviously, with all the necessary rules. in this way, they would free themselves doctors from purely administrative consultations or from bureaucracy associated with renewal of prescriptions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about proximity and we are talking about access to health, but there is much more to be done. As we all know, in recent times, the pharmaceutical industry and the entire distribution chain have operated under very demanding economic conditions, which has resulted in several difficulties of access. More and more people are going to the pharmacy to buy drugs and are confronted with stock breaks. To minimize this problem, the Government has banned the export of more than 150 medicines. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, this measure does not work because it is of no use to ban the export of what no longer exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u123	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u124	Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union which pays less for medicines, and that is why they are missing. Thus, it is necessary to increase the competitiveness of the market,... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ...and I'm going to say all the time, so that the gentlemen. Members on the left side of the Hemicycle realize, while ensuring that the costs for people do not increase. I think this is clear on our part.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u126	They don't understand, they can't! [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u127	On generic and bio-similar medicines, which allow the State to save many million without any harm to users, the Government only presents vague objectives, without the definition of any concrete measures that guarantee the adoption of the best available option. And that is what the Liberal Initiative also proposes here. Finally, it is not possible to speak in sustainability in access to the drug without talking about the distribution, a fundamental sector that has once again been forgotten by this government. It therefore seems to us that the most basic justice that the deduction of fuel expenditure for the transport of medicinal products can be increased, as has already been the case in so many other activities. I give a final word to the medical device industry, which is also essential in the treatment of patients, and which, like the pharmaceutical industry, was not immune to the impact of the economic crisis. Thus, it is more than at the time of the government, in conjunction with the sector, also to update the sharing of the price of medical devices. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential to adopt mechanisms that guarantee equity and proximity in access to medicine and medical devices, but also to the sustainability of the entire value chain. In the Liberal Initiative, we do not accept any kind of failure in the right of access to health and we do not accept any kind of disrespect for the possibility of a higher and better quality of life on the part of patients and their families. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u128	We have completed the period dedicated to the presentation of the different projects of the various parliamentary groups. We now move on to the intervention period. Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of legislative initiatives that basically address issues related to medicines and other health products. In the PSD, we are concerned about the usual lack of access of patients to the medicines they need and are therefore reflected in the titles of the initiatives under consideration. The problem, as always, is in the details. Otherwise, let's see: the lack of medicines is a problem that harms millions of Portuguese people, especially chronic patients, whose health is aggravated by the interruption of treatments, especially when diseases such as hypertension and diabetes are involved. This lack of access has, above all, two major causes: or economic difficulties of the consumer or insufficient supply at the place of dispensation. I will limit my intervention to the first of those situations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, many Portuguese families face great social and economic difficulties, in which their already thin budgets are increasingly crushed by high inflation, high prices and increasingly unbearable interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u132	But the PSD considers that it is not through demagogic, unfounded measures, or simply voluntary and unthinkable, that the problems of Portuguese access to medicines and other health products are effectively solved. [[PSD applause.]] Some examples of what I have just mentioned can be found in Law Projects No. 447 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 525 and 746 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 749 / XV / 1. a (PAN), which intends to establish a system of participation for medicines, glasses, hearing aids and other medical devices, which would surely have a strong impact on public finances, without ensuring that they present a reasoned estimate of costs, omission that speaks well of political seriousness—or lack of it—which determined the presentation of these initiatives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u133	The Resolution Project No. 613 / XV / 1. a (IL) contains recommendations to the government that deserve to be made viable, some of which have already been submitted by the PSD, and for many of which the PSD governments have contributed. I recall the case of generic medicinal products whose market share in units increased from 31 % in 2011 to 47 % in 2015 by 16 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u134	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u135	... when, in the last seven years, the same share has increased slightly more than 2 %. The defense of the quality of life of Portuguese is undoubtedly a priority for the PSD. But unlike other parties, we are guided by parameters that do not include populist policies, so we will not follow some of the initiatives under discussion today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Isabel Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Program for the Promotion of Oral Health, created in 2005 and under current review, was a decisive step in the commitment of the Ministry of Health to improving the oral health of Portuguese. In the State Budget Act for 2023, a commitment was made to assess the needs of access to oral rehabilitation through dental prostheses under the National Program for the Promotion of Oral Health. Still in the context of health promotion and disease prevention, where oral, visual, auditory and chronic diseases are included, protection continues to develop policies to address needs, aligned with the Government Programme and taking into account technical, scientific and financial weighting. Regarding the rupture of medicines, it is general, it is not only in our country. In Hungary, there are a lack of 14 000 types of medicines that interfere with the health and well-being of the population. It is not only in Portugal. The Ministry of Health has advanced with a set of measures to facilitate access to medicines and to avoid ruin situations, responding to the concerns of users, health professionals and the drug sector. The controlled increase in the price of the cheapest medicinal products seeks to ensure its continued availability on the market and is compensated for the reduction in the price of the most expensive medicinal products. Two new protection mechanisms will be developed: the creation of a list of essential, critical medicines, and the definition of the concept of 'excessive cost medicine', by reference to the increase in sales volume and market share, which will lead to the reduction of their price still this year. in this sense, the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with INFARMED, and taking into account the proposals of the various partners of the sector, updates the price of the cheapest medicines, outside the usual process of annual price review. This administrative increase in prices seeks to promote access to the medicinal product in Portugal, contributing, in the medium term, to lower charges for SNS and Portuguese, by preserving the sustainability of the cheapest products on the market, in particular generics; regular updating of the list of medicinal products whose export is limited or suspended; and the creation of conditions for the promotion of the prescription and dispensation of generic, bio-similar drugs and other more efficient therapeutic options. The Council of Ministers for Health of the European Union met on Friday 5 May, with our Secretary of State for Health Promotion presenting the measures taken in Portugal concerning the medicinal product, which were very well received and merited the support of the Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u138	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u139	Madam President, access to medicine, prostheses, good nutrition, including enterics and parenterics, is not only a matter of public health, it is a question of social justice, of the conditions of our lives that we often do not have the ability to control. It is the case of a person born in a family of few incomes, or a person who has to have two jobs, like a fellow citizen with whom I spoke recently, who suffered from an inflammatory bowel disease—may be Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis—and who, in order to moderate his situation, the suffering he is suffering, would have to pay for his pocket of enteric nutrition, which costs 1200 € or 1300 € per month. Of course, with wages in Portugal, people cannot access this diet. By now, Mrs Lúcia Araújo da Silva, it is important that a study is being made in the framework of the State budget for 2023 on this subject - this was indeed one of the proposals of the Free for the State budget - but more important than that is that the measure be implemented, because, as we see, it is absolutely essential that people have access to that nutrition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u140	Oh, oh! Dream of it...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u141	Therefore, the various initiatives that are under discussion bring us to an essential problem of care and solidarity for our fellow citizens. In the short time I have left, I just wanted to make a special mention of the proposal on the National Laboratory for Medicine, the successor of the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals. In times such as those we are living in, war, inflation and disturbance in supply chains, it is absolutely essential that the State has a safeguard and has an industrial capacity to produce medicines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u143	... without which the fixed price and supply do not work. It is therefore a proposal that we must support, without any hesitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u145	Mr President, at this final stage of the debate, I would like to mention the following: when we bring these proposals, we are talking about safeguarding and guaranteeing rights which, of course, must be guaranteed by all and for all. This is what moves the PCP. We know that what other parties are most concerned about is the interests and profits, in this particular case, of the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u147	In fact, even in the interventions mentioned here, they talked about the lack of medicines, but they never actually mentioned what is contributing to this lack of medicines, because the concern is not to ensure access to medicines, it is to ensure the profits of the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u148	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u149	It's the price!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u150	The solution is not to have more capacity to produce and to reduce the price of medicines—no! — because the important thing is to ensure the profits of the pharmaceutical industry, which has in fact long gained with what is basic to all of us, which is health and the guarantee of the right to health. So we are not discussing the market, we are discussing health and access to medicines, and that is something we wanted to make clear in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u151	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u152	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. We have seen well the role of the pharmaceutical industry, in fact, in the period of the epidemic was very evident: the concern was not to ensure the health of citizens, it was how he could increase his profit with the sale of vaccines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u153	Exactly like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u154	...and the price of the vaccines was increasing. This is the reality. Even to conclude, Madam President, that is why it is so important to ensure means, equipment, workers at the National Medicine Laboratory, to have more production and to ensure that the costs of medicines are lower for users and for the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u155	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Barroso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group, at the beginning of this intervention, would like to greet all nurses in our country, on this date when the International Nurse Day is celebrated, in the recognition of the care and treatment of these professionals to all Portuguese. Thank you very much. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD considers it essential to ensure adequate access by consumers to the medicines they need. Therefore, note that the shortcomings and ruptures occurring every day in the pharmacies from north to south of the country are well evidence that the real life of the Portuguese is very different from the pink country that the Socialist Government is still trying to impinge us, at the end of all these years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u157	in this context, analyzing the proposals under discussion, we understand that some seek to respond to a real problem of the population—I refer to Law Projects Nos 568 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and 748 / XV / 1. a (PAN) and the Resolution Project No 546 / XV / 1. a ( CH). In fact, the first one reinforces the productive capacity of the Laboratory for Medicinal Products, conditioning the repeated situations of lack or failure of medicinal products, which is relevant to the PSD, and the latter recommends the creation of an emergency drug import model, as in other countries of the European Union. We will therefore vote in favour of them, even if we consider them to be not innovative. Conversely, Resolution Project No 561 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), although it recommends a laudable appreciation of the National Laboratory for Medicine — the former Military Laboratory —, it proposes that the same should start manufacturing generic drugs on an industrial scale, i.e. on a large scale, in large quantity, in a logic of centralization of State production, a model of rest incompatible with a market system. The most likely results of such a Soviet-inspired recommendation would be distortion of the drug market, compromising the regulatory function of the State and, more or more serious, harm to consumers—after all, patients themselves who lack medication. Similarly, Resolution Project No 612 / XV / 1. a (IL) although it says that it aims to promote greater productivity in access to the medicinal product, it proposes that Community pharmacies begin to monitor and monitor certain chronic patients. This is not a proposal with which the PSD can agree, since it represents a risk to the health of patients, even with the cautions that the proposing party has sought to introduce. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will not fail to follow closely the topic of the medicine in order to defend the emerging improvement of Portuguese access to health care. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u158	To close this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u159	Mr President, contrary to what has been said in this debate, this problem is not a national problem and has a fundamental reason: it is called capitalism. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u160	That's why the rupture of drugs happens in Portugal, it happens in the paradise of the Arrival, which is called Hungary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u161	He didn't go to the auditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u162	... where there is at the moment a serious drug failure—if André Ventura, who was there a few weeks ago, said nothing, I bring you this news—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u163	What about Cuba? What about Venezuela?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u164	... takes place in the liberal paradise of the Liberal Initiative, called the United States of America, which is with a serious lack of access to medicines. And why does it happen? Because those who have ordered the development of countries over the past decades have been the market, not the defence of the sovereignty of States, so at the moment this is a public health problem and it is also a sovereignty problem. That's why the Liberal Initiative, when it says that the only way out is to increase the price of drugs, is doing exactly what anyone wants. Who? Industry. The Liberal Initiative did not defend people in this debate, it defended industry, which is exactly who asks for prices to be increased. Now, it's a reason to ask, then, who's afraid of the National Laboratory of Medicine? Who is afraid of the production of the National Medicines Laboratory? If we have production capacity, if we have the ability to respond to the lack of drugs people experience in their daily lives, if we have the ability to take away from people's lives the suffering of insecurity of knowing whether or not they will have access to medicines that they need to have access to health, then why don't we? Who's afraid of the National Drug Laboratory? In fact, anyone who believes that there can be no competition from State production when the market fails, with a market that only wants more income in its monopoly. The profit of them cannot be at the expense of everyone's health. That is why we propose the essential: that we withdraw the legal limitation to the National Laboratory of Medicine and that, within the plan, identifying failures in supply chains and fragility of the market, ensure that our State has the sovereign capacity to respond to the health of our people — something so simple, but, after all, ideologically so distant to, for example, understand the Liberal Initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u165	Mrs. Joana Lambero asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u166	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u167	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u168	Madam President, I would like to ask the Bureau to have Members of this House distribute, in particular those of the Left Block and the CFP, the links of the hearings we have made here in Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u169	He didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u170	... on the rupture of medicinal products, with several entities in the sector, which clearly explained the reasons for the lack of medicinal products. [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u171	He didn't even see it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u172	It seems to me that you are. Members were not present, therefore, I would like that information to be distributed so that you do not miss out on the information. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u173	Madam Member, these documents are accessible to everyone. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u174	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u176	Madam President, the statutory obligation is that the party that agendas the debate should close it. We know that, so many times, the Arrival uses this play to make an interpellation to the Bureau to have the last word, and now we know that the Liberal Initiative is copying, in so many things, the Reach. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u177	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u178	Exactly, the trailer is coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u179	In fact, the links that the honourable Member is talking about are those of the pharmaceutical industry, which came here to say exactly what I said recently — « pay us more money! — when what we say is: « Defend the people of these abusive profits of the pharmaceutical industry! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u180	That was an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u181	At the end of point three of our agenda, we move on to point four: assessment of Petition No 62 / XV / 1. a ( Rui Pedro Paulino da Fonseca and others) — for the environmental crimes practiced by pig husbandry in the Leiria region, together with the Resolution Projects Nos. 606 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Fight for the discharges of pig effluents in Leiria region and for the protection of the river Lis river basin, 618 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Operationalization of a working group for the implementation of an integrated solution for the collection, treatment and enhancement of the effluents of pig husbandry, with a view to protecting the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers, 635 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Memorandum of Understanding with a view to implementing a definitive integrated solution for the problem of swine pollution in the Lis river basin, 650 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to combat the discharges of the pig industry and 651 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme for safeguarding the environmental quality of the Lis River Basin. To present the Resolution Project No 606 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking the petitioners who are present today, who have mobilized around this fight on the discharges of swine effluents in the Leiria region and for the protection of the river Lis basin. This is undoubtedly one of the regions of the country that are armed with one of the scourges and one of the sources of environmental pollution that most affect the quality of life and the environmental quality of the populations. In today's debate, we see that several benches have responded to the petitioners' appeal, presenting proposals concerning pollution of Leiria pig husbandry, although not all recognize that, in addition to the environmental scourge, there is also a problem of animal welfare, which should not be ignored. The problems, which are obvious and have been recognised by both the population and agricultural producers, are due to illegal discharges and untreated effluents that have reached the river Lis watershed, which is extremely polluted for decades. Long are the times when populations could somehow use their waters or even live more safely in nature. The lack of political will to solve this problem and the lack of investment led to an unsustainable and unacceptable environmental and public health situation. The municipal chamber itself and the agricultural producers of the region recognize that the discharges of effluents of pig husbandry represent the greatest environmental problem for this municipality, which cannot continue as so far. The NAP proposes the cleaning and protection of the Lis River, but it intends to go further because, in addition to mere « quick thoughts », what is intended and what needs to be dealt with in depth. We therefore propose that all pig crops in the region be inspected and that the number of pigs per holding be reduced, protecting the animals and also ensuring that those who are pollinated do not go unpunished, as so far. We also want to encourage environmentally friendly production methods, so we propose that public funds allocated to pig husbandry be transferred gradually to sustainable food holdings. This measure ensures that no jobs will be lost, ensuring new employment and investment opportunities for green businesses, environmental friends and that they respect animal rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we ask for courage: courage to do what is necessary and to solve once the environmental problems created by the proliferation of pigs in Leiria, some of which act illegally, questioning the interests of the population, the rights of animals and also those of future generations. We are sure that we will be on the right side of history and call on everyone to do the same, approving the NAP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u183	To present the Resolution Project No 618 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners for the environmental crimes committed by pig husbandry in the Leiria region, which I do in the person of your first petitioner, Rui Pedro Paulino da Fonseca. We share most of the concerns that are mirrored in this petition, particularly with regard to the need for severe punishment of all those who, prevaricing, throw on the water lines effluent from piglets without any treatment or land deposition, also without proper treatment, of the waste of these farms, recognizing that the lack of such treatment strongly impairs the quality of life of the populations and, even worse, pollutes the water and its corresponding aquifers, also contaminating the soils. This has been, in fact, a strong concern in the district of Leiria, especially in the municipalities of Alcobaça, Batalha, Leiria, Porto de Mós and Marinha Grande, which have been fighting for a solution that ultimately solves this problem for several years. in this House, several have been the draft resolutions on this subject presented by various parties, which, as today happens, have tried to present solutions to overcome this problem, which is, it is recognized, a complex problem and the ultimate and definitive solution of which is not easy. That is why the PS Government, in Law No 24 - D / 2022 of 30 December, which approved the State budget for 2023, on the suggestion of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, agreed to introduce an amendment to its initial proposal, which was approved in the field of speciality, in which it is expected that during the year 2023, the Government will carry out technical and economic-financial studies aimed at finding an integrated solution for the collection, treatment and exploitation of all the effluents of the Lis River,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u185	We're on May!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u186	... especially agricultural and agro-industrial, mitigating negative impacts, suitable for the protection of the shores of the Miracles and the rivers Lis and Lena and which aims to protect public health and the quality of life of the populations in that region, providing for the type of financing for it. It is therefore the Government of the Socialist Party that recognizes the need for a solution that improves the well-being of the populations in the Leiria district and commits itself to presenting work that contributes to an effective environmental recovery in this region. However, it has to be acknowledged that significant advances have occurred in the last 10 years and significant technological developments in the form of treatment of effluents and residues from pig husbandry which today make the same environmentally more sustainable than they were for a few years. This is an example of the recent announcement that Leiria Council will receive an investment of EUR 20 million for the creation of a biomethane production unit from the agricultural effluents produced in the region. This is a project developed following an application to the PRR through the programme to support the production of renewable hydrogen and other renewable gases, which will be able to deal annually with about 40 000 tonnes of agricultural waste, 40 000 tonnes of pig farming effluents and 20 000 tonnes of other waste, providing for an energy production capacity of 40 GW to 50 GW per year, the start of which is still planned for 2023. With this paradigm change, we do not share the most catastrophic visions, which point to this sector as being responsible for all environmental evils, whose solution will have to be the reduction of the effects and the consequent reduction of the number of pig farms, or even their elimination,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u188	... which would immediately correspond to an increase in unemployment in the region, given the significant economic importance that this sector has in the same, since there operate around 280 companies, which correspond to 17, 5 % of the national production share of pig farming, with a positive weight in exports. Therefore, including the relevant changes and significant scientific and technological advances in improving the use of effluents and residues from pig husbandry, it is possible to conclude that these are already — and even more so in the future — environmentally viable. We therefore present today this draft resolution, which recommends to the Government that the various stakeholders of this sector in the region be called upon to contribute, to involve themselves and to take responsibility for, together, obtaining a proposal or proposals for mitigating the negative environmental impacts of pig farming, as well as any other factors contributing to the increase of such negative impacts, identifying their origin, so that an integrated solution can be implemented for the collection, treatment and recovery of the effluents of pig farming, inspired by the best and most modern practices of waste management, with regard to the energy transition, with a view to protecting the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers, to the agricultural recovery of the livestock effluents and the reuse of them for the production of alternative and renewable energy. This will be, I am sure, the best solution for the population in the region and for the environmental recovery of an important economic sector such as pig farming, which we do not want to lose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u189	You've been able to talk for six minutes and not say anything! [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u190	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the 7627 petitioners No 62 / XV / 1. a, due to environmental crimes committed by pigs in the Leiria region. In fact, for decades, serious pollution problems have been encountered in the Lis river basin in the Leiria district as a result of discharges of effluents and waste disposals from agricultural industries, including pig husbandry. The pests of flies and other insects and the nauseaous smells make it impossible for people living in that region to live. The PSD therefore follows the concerns and demands of the petitioners regarding the restoration of the balance of the ecosystems in the Lis basin while recognizing the socio-economic importance of the existing agricultural industry for the Leiria region and the Country, since it represents more than two hundred companies, about 4000 workers and about 17 % of Portuguese pig production.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u193	However, despite the efforts to modernise the production processes and the greater requirement for licensing and the agricultural exploitation itself, particularly with regard to animal welfare, there is still much to be done to mitigate the ecological footprint of the sector. In the history of the many proposals for solutions, it was planned and approved in 2014 the construction of a pig effluent treatment station, through a candidacy for Community financing by the companies of the sector, whose construction ended up not being realized. Subsequently, the PS Government changed its perspective on the need and viability of this solution, pointing out the possibility of taking advantage of existing ETARs (residual water treatment stations), namely Coimbrão, which deserved the disagreement between the authorities and the concessionary company itself, due to lack of capacity for the volume of effluents produced. Subsequently, the Government, through Dispatch No 6312 / 2019, determined the need for a public service to be created for the treatment and exploitation of agricultural and agro-industrial effluents, directing the public enterprise AdP ENERGIAS - Renewable energies and Environmental Services to point out and study a solution that would have to be delivered — attention! — until the end of the first half of 2021. For this purpose, EUR 1 million has been transferred from the Environmental Fund, but so far the result of this study is unknown and the target of the EUR 1 million allocated is unknown. [[PSD applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Odyssey continues, however, to be approved the National Strategy for Agricultural and Agri-Industry Efluents, the ENEAPAI 2030. However, « the mountain has been a rat », because despite its strategic relevance, nothing, I repeat, determines nothing for the depollution of the Lis river basin. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party bench presents us with a draft resolution, draft resolution No 618 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), in which once again it diagnoses the problem and once again presents its traditional solution: the creation of a working group, consisting of 15 entities—I repeat, 15 entities! — to carry out a study and to point out supposed solutions without time limits for their implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u194	There's still one more of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u195	It's the PS at its best, pushing the problems with the belly and leaving everything in it. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the other parties' draft resolutions, we partially accompany all of the solutions for the depollution of the watershed and the concern about the environmental and economic viability of the agricultural industry in the region. Obviously, we do not accompany those who want to destroy it, without pointing out ways for its compatibility with good environmental practices. This political responsibility is required. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party advocates that a memorandum of understanding between the Government, the authorities and the pig farmers, should be signed in a negotiated and concerted manner, defining the actions to be carried out immediately! — already providing for their investment and for the sharing of operational and financial responsibilities. For the PSD, this memorandum, this agreement, this contract, should have four dimensions. The first is the strengthening of the treatment of pig effluents through the construction of a new dedicated treatment station, which makes the treatment of effluents, the use of biogas for the production of energy and agricultural fertilizers, through the final masses. The second is the increase in monitoring, discharge control and monitoring of water masses, contributing to deter illegal practices, penalizing offenders and thus ensuring the quality of water resources. The third is the ecological restoration of the water lines, rehabilitating the ecosystems, cleaning the margins and restoring the riparian galleries, thus returning the water courses and nature to the balanced enjoyment by the populations. The fourth and final dimension are supported by the circularity and sustainability of the pig sector, allowing the sector to have access to funding to modernize its productive practices in a circular economy logic, finding techniques for the valorization of the various flows of organic materials and by-products, encouraging a paradigm change in relation to the environment and the territory. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the PSD proposes and recommends to the Government; this is what the Government should do immediately. Leiria deserves it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u196	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now for a speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you to the petitioners and to the signatories of this petition. Thank you, because you provide a service to your community, your neighbors, your environment and our country. Today, by voting on the draft resolutions accompanying this petition, we can pay back this civic service to our country, our population and the environment. As for the Lis basin, the petitioners speak of distant memories of the times when children could bathe in the Lis and other rivers their tributaries. Today, those who know the region know that, particularly aggravated by the drought and summer situation, there is the nauseaous smell of pig husbandry farms and there is also a health risk due to the type of waste that is thrown into the rivers of the Lis basin. Now, in our draft resolution, we recommend something that is very simple: we recommend that, for the existing livestock facilities, there be greater supervision and the strengthening of resources for the authorities. That is to say, it must be prevented from continuing to happen what is illegal. Then there must be real consequences for those who do not comply with the legislation. in this sense, when adopting the draft resolution of the Free, the Assembly recommends that the Government increase the penalties for those who do not comply with the legislation. But at this level, the number of animals on each holding must be defined according to the treatment capacity of the effluents each holding has. This is of the simplest sense: no one can have a kind of industrial or commercial exploitation, unless he is able to deal with the negative externalities it produces on the people who are close. Moreover: it is necessary that, in the allocation of subsidies to pig farms, these subsidies should be calibrated, depending on the effective capacity to treat effluents. In addition, you will need to perform a recovery operation of what has already been damaged. For this purpose, the State must contribute and use these fines raised on transgressing pig husbandry, because that memory that is given to us, in the petition, of the time when it was possible to take advantage of Lis, of its fluents, of those waters, this memory, this objective, that past, can and should still be in our future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u198	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners on the subject they bring to this House. Pollution in the Lis river basin is a problem that has been prolonged for decades, identifying the livestock sector as one of the activities that have been forming an important source of water pollution. This pollution, resulting from inadequate environmental management of these activities, has important negative impacts on the lives of populations, their health, their well-being and leisure, preventing the collective use and use of water courses. With regard to this situation, the passivity of successive governments not only of the PS, but also of the PSD and the CDS, in solving a problem that unfortunately only gains public importance when more serious episodes of discharges of effluents occur. The data on livestock production published in the 2019 Agricultural Review indicate that 6 % of the existing pig holdings at national level are concentrated in the municipalities of the Lis river basin on a total of 1602 pig holdings. The concentrated presence of this livestock asset results in the production of large amounts of effluents with high organic load, which constitute potential sources of pollutants relevant to water masses, whether surface or groundwater, if they are discharged without being subjected to adequate treatment. In the past, it was planned for the region to build a pig effluent treatment station, designed to promote the resolution of the multiple pollution problems resulting from this activity, which have been, and have continued to be, at the source of various complaints by the population. Unfortunately, the lack of will to solve this problem, which continues to persist, has contributed to the continued degradation of water bodies in this watershed, to air pollution, to the frequent emergence of large insect outbreaks, to the degradation of the quality of life of populations and to environmental degradation and agricultural soils, with consequences in other economic activities, particularly those linked to tourism. The farming activity, where pig farming is inserted, represents an important contribution to national production and to the food sovereignty of the country, and it is important not to mention this aspect. But this activity cannot call into question the safeguarding of the environment and the quality of life of the populations. This is a problem that should have been solved a long time ago. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u200	in this regard, the National Strategy for Agricultural and Agri-Industry Efluents 2020 - 2030, adopted in 2020, did not provide an effective answer to the issues raised, having defined that the treatment solution of these Efluents in ETAR is fourth, in terms of priorities, when it should be at a much higher place in the priorities of this strategy. The CFP proposes that this House recommend to the Government that it develop, by the end of September 2023, an action programme for the treatment of pig effluents generated in the Lis river basin and that, in this procedure, there be a link between the Ministries of Agriculture, the Environment and the Economics, and also the participation of local authorities in that region, the CFP also proposes that the Government frame in the PRR the funds necessary for the implementation of the infrastructure solutions for the treatment of livestock effluents generated in the region. We also propose to promote the implementation of a pilot project to defend the water masses of the Lis river basin, which includes a monitoring and monitoring program for the state of the water masses, the identification and detailed characterization of the point sources of pollution—licensed and improper—and the study of solutions for the recovery of the good quality of the water masses and surrounding environment, also preventing the occurrence of illegal discharges. This is the initiative that the CFP presents and hopes it will be able to see it approved, so that these problems can be solved as quickly as possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u201	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more silence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u202	Have respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u203	The floor is Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Party welcomes the signatories of the petition on environmental crimes committed by pig husbandry in the Leiria region. Indices three repairs: firstly, the pollution of the river Lis, in Leiria, is an open-air environmental crime, which has been dragging for decades, and also includes sewage from the city.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u206	The answers we have today, in 2023, are these: the NAP mixes fundamental environmentalism with economic leadership;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u208	... the PS requires another working group; the PSD changes the script to « memorandum of understanding to change the paradigm», whatever that is ; the Free dream with a government that one day will provide the necessary means for monitoring; and the PCP is waiting for another environmental safeguard programme. These are the proposals of those who pretend to have landed today on planet Earth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u209	And what do you guys do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u210	Such an obvious phenomenon of pollution only drags on for decades when the political class lives with atrocities, non-compliances and crimes. In Portugal, the political class is exempt from seeing the rule of law in a democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Second repair: in the heart of the Lis River pollution, there is no pig growing, they are not the entrepreneurs of the sector; they are the political caste that dominates the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u212	It's all too obvious: the laws either don't work, or they're bad, or they're not applied. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The licences of pig farming companies are inadequate; environmental damage controls are unauthorised or fraudulent; penalties are not dissuasive. If the opposite were true, the petition would never have existed. The mantra of power commands the faithful to shake the water from the hood, from the state to society, from the politician to the entrepreneur. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Third and last repair: for decades, social communication has strengthened — and well! — strongly social sensitivity to crime. The role of crimes has become infallible: environmental crime, domestic violence, sexual abuse, corruption, urban crime, etc. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u213	But the greater the social sensitivity to crime, the more the political class imposes diffuse laws, laws that accumulate and that are not complied with, legal articles favourable to all types of reporting files, suspension or reduction of the application of penalties. This is accompanied by the selective criminal excusability of certain minorities, illegal immigration, left-wing politicians, among others. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The destruction of the cultural relationship between crime and punishment is at stake. When strong incitement is made to increase social sensitivity to crime and when, at the same time, a civic culture of fragility or rejection of criminalization is imposed, not only does the system of justice end up dysfunctional, as societies enter into mental short-circuit, which is called anonymity. There are only two answers that restore the mental balance of societies: or reduce social sensitivity to crime, which is wrong and impossible, or clarify, aggravate and ensure the effective application of judicial penalties. That is why the Party does not hesitate to make the penalties worse and its effective application.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u215	This includes, within the limit, perpetual imprisonment or chemical castration of sexual aggressors. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Logic applies to environmental crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u216	Perpetual prison for pigs!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u217	It seems a lie, but the political bubble, this one, drives the Portuguese people crazy, with the greatest conviction. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u218	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block. I ask for as much silence as possible. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the petitioners for bringing this debate to the Assembly of the Republic, but I believe that we, as electors, have an obligation to apologize to them, because, decades later, we continue to discuss exactly the same problems, i.e. the environmental troubles that are committed barbarously in the Lis River and in its tributaries, which make a whole region resonate of economic interests, which some of them live on the edge of the law. That is why, then, the proposals on the table are more than the same: more than one working group, more evaluation among players in the area, more awareness of public agents and private agents, more than that which has already been approved in the Assembly of the Republic and which has not solved any problem. That is why, I believe, of the most basic justice we will apologize and stop repeating the same speeches as ever, saying that it will be all right now. It's not Miss Mundo's contest, it's not the kind we're discussing here. We are elected to respond to people's problems. On this matter, if we do nothing to ensure that there is first protection of public health and, secondly, the quality of life of those populations, in fact, we are not solving anything at all. We are making a speech, we are making speeches, we are having a discussion which, in a few years' time, will be repeated, in exactly the same terms. Therefore, understanding all the blackmails that exist on the part of those who have repeatedly committed environmental crimes and who say « but we do jobs, we create jobs, we have economic activity, we cannot question all these benefits for society», we tell them « but your economic activity cannot be at the expense of public health, it cannot be at the expense of the loss of quality of life of a group of people, it is not worth everything to ensure that nothing is changed». From that point of view, there must be seriousness on the part of the electorate, both national and local. We must say, once and for all, that we cannot accept this concession to economic interests that do not change and that are part of the past and not of the future exactly because they do not change. We cannot accept that everything is maintained as it is, that we create another working group, that we have a few more discussions and that we do not move at all. Our law is clear, it should be fulfilled and, if it were to be fulfilled, if responsible persons were to be duly investigated, if there was an action on the ground, this discussion was all indispensable, I repeat, all indispensable! So first of all, the law is respected and, secondly, the populations are protected when economic activity is turned against them. Often, that is what is happening and I believe that we cannot divert the attention of this reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u220	The last intervention on this point belongs to Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Questionnaires, because this cause has already been dragged, as has been said, unfortunately for too many years now. So much so that this is not even the first time that the petition is here for discussion. Unfortunately, Parliament has discussed this several times. We are therefore in a particularly difficult situation: there are agreements with companies that produce these effluents, the idea of building a STAR, the discussion of the creation of inter-municipal communities, and it is appropriate to say that a lot of funds have already been moved, as the PSD said, and well, but the problem remains to be resolved. The municipal chambers continue to lament ourselves, and the population, of course, continues to suffer the consequences of pollution. Also the fulfilling pigicultures, unfortunately, see their image affected by sinners, that is, they pay for the sinners. In view of this, the Liberal Initiative will support PS and PSD projects. We will, of course, support the PSD, whose priorities in the text seem to me well defined. I hope that this memorandum will have exactly the words in the text, and then the PS. But I want to say that we think it would be good to incorporate the part of the CFP project which refers to the definition of a deadline — I think it was September 1 to the date that was in the project — because, if it is just another working group to pretend, it is not worth it. It is necessary to schedule, so that the group or committee — what we want to call it — decide, because it seems to me that no one wants to discuss the same thing for the year. We really want to solve the problem. So, I think, in the field of specialty, it would be good if we incorporated this suggestion from the CFP. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u222	We have thus reached the end of this agenda item and we shall proceed to the vote. I would like to ask the services which start the quorum verification period and to ask the honourable Members to do so. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament have not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Everyone heard the question and everyone got it. I ask the services to close the quorum verification system and advertise the result. We have quorum, so we shall proceed to the vote. Let's start with an electronic vote. This means that the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I am asking, they must stand up and, when they vote in favour, they must press the green key when they vote against, they must press the red key and, when they abstain, they must press the white key. We shall then vote in re-evaluation on the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV — Regulates the conditions under which the death of the assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. [[Subject to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, having registered 129 votes in favour [107 of PS, 8 of PSD (Deputies Adam Silva, António Maló de Abreu, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Hugo Martins de Carvalho, Monica Quintela, Rosina Ribeiro Pereira and Sofia Matos), 7 of IL, 5 of BE, 1 of PAN and 1 of L], 81 votes against [4 of PS (Deputies Cristina Sousa, João Azevedo, Joaquim Barreto and Sobrinho Teixeira), 60 of PSD, 12 of CH and 5 of the PCP] and 1 abstention from PSD (Deputies Jorge Salgueiro Mendes).]] Having been reassessed and voted, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV was confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u223	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u224	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u225	Mr President, it is only to say that I will present a statement of vote together with Mr Joaquim Barreto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u227	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u228	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u229	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Maria João Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u230	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u231	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u232	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u233	Mr President, it is for the same thing to announce a statement of vote on my behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u234	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u235	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u236	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u237	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of more Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u238	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u239	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u240	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u241	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u242	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u243	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u244	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u245	Mr President, it is to say that, in addition to my vote against, I will make a statement of vote, as usual, on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u246	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u247	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u248	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u249	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u250	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u251	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u252	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u253	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u254	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u255	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u256	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u257	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to announce a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of a group of PSD Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u258	It is also registered, Mr. Let us then move on to the next deliberations, which is the Voting Project No. 343 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ) — Despite the death of Vítor Barros. To read the draft vote, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Born in 1950, Vítor Manuel Coelho Barros was an agronomous career engineer and researcher at INIAV ( National Institute of Agrarian and Veterinary Research ), having been one of the founders of the Department of Economic Studies and Agricultural Sociology of the then INIA ( National Institute of Agrarian Research ), meanwhile integrated into that Institute. He was Secretary of State for Rural Development in the XIII and XIV Constitutional Governments, giving him responsibility for the proposed creation of forest slag teams. It also highlights its interest in the theme of the Mediterranean diet, having played a decisive role in the Portuguese candidacy of the Mediterranean diet to the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity, of UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ). He chaired the Laziria Company and the Alter Real Foundation as well as the General Assembly of ANIMAR - Network of local development synergies, among other affiliations and functions performed throughout an intense public life. He was the President-in-Office of the Municipal Assembly of São Pedro do Sul. It leaves us with 72 years of full life, committed to the causes of agriculture, rural development and, in particular, its Lafón region. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Vítor Manuel Coelho Barros and directs the most sympathy to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u260	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask you to accompany me in a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Following the Vote Project No 342 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on European Affairs and subscribed by Members of the PS and PSD ) — Greetings for the celebration of Europe's Day. There is no objection, given the size of the vote, I allow myself to read a few excerpts which I think do not bring the general meaning of the vote: “ World peace cannot be safeguarded without creative efforts as the dangers threaten it. [... ] United Europe has always had the essential goal of serving peace. Europe will not take a blow, nor a construction as a whole; it will be made through concrete achievements that create, firstly, a de facto solidarity. This quotation is from the famous Schuman Declaration of May 9, 1950, issued by one of the founders of the European peace project, Robert Schuman. More than seven decades later, it remains, today, more than ever, fully present. Portugal has always been an active and constructive participant in the life of the European Union, open to further steps in deepening the European integration project. The European Union has proved, in the face of the most varied crisis scenarios, that it works and remains beneficial for each of its Member States and partners, while guaranteeing human rights and the rule of law, sustainable development, solidarity and cohesion. On February 24, 2022, the world changed dramatically with the brutal, unjustified and illegal invasion of Ukraine, a sovereign country. It is not possible to say that the war in Ukraine is an opportunity for Europe. The war in Ukraine is a European tragedy. However, the Union responded to Ukraine's invasion by Russia with determination, speed and unity. He acted firmly and with one voice. The Union supported Ukraine, provided military assistance, political support, diplomatic support, welcomed millions of people on the run and granted funding on an unprecedented scale. If there has ever been a moment for more Europe, that moment is now. May 9 is also the day of the celebration of 1. the anniversary of the conclusion of the Conference on the Future of Europe, where proposals were adopted by the citizens with a vision for the future of Europe. in this measure, the Assembly of the Republic also has a significant role to play in the scrutiny of its implementation, aiming at the continued deepening of the European project. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the celebration of the Day of Europe, stressing and recalling that, in these times of so much uncertainty and fear, Europe should continue to be a guarantee of peace, economic development and social welfare, reaffirming its commitment to contribute to an increasingly coherent European Union at the Community level and at the international level, based on the values that are in the genesis of its foundation and based on the principles of the rule of law, representative democracy and solidarity among peoples. And that should continue to be inspiring for millions of people in Europe and around the world. Do not keep on seeking. ” We shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u261	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u262	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u263	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u264	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u265	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u266	Mr President, it is to announce that we will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u267	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No 73 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Options for 2023 - 2026. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL, the PCP and BE and abstentions of the PAN and L.]] This proposal is down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 684 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Return of funds from the Car Guarantee Fund ( FGA ) in order to reduce the price of the car insurance premiums ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 291/2007 of 21 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 751 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — provides for the guarantee by the Car Guarantee Fund for the repair of damage and reimbursement of expenditure as a result of animal crash. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 713 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — Increases funding of support products for people with disabilities or temporary disabilities. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 752 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures in good time access to prostheses and orthopedics and other orthopedic material that it is necessary to prevent the dependence, precariousness, isolation and social exclusion of military disabled persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 754 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the legal regime for access to the old-age pension of persons with disabilities equal to or greater than 60 %. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u268	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u269	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u270	Mr President, I shall inform you that I shall present a statement of vote on behalf of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u271	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We move on to the general vote on draft resolution No 529 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrate on May 10 as the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 553 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Institution of the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project goes down to 10. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 578 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrate on May 10 as the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 634 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends strengthening special education training throughout the course of teaching. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS and the CH abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 617 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends to the Government that no public body may require a document issued by another public body, implementing a procedure allowing communication between public bodies to obtain such documents. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the Members of the PS Alexandra Leitão and João Paulo Rebelo and with abstentions from the PS, the PCP and the L.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 659 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to lay down the car insurance policy. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the L.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 710 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — Withdraw the temporary character from the permanent certificate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of CH, IL and PS MP João Paulo Rebelo and abstentions from PSD, BE, PAN, L and PS MP Alexandra Leitão.]] The general vote of Bill No. 714 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — eliminates the payment obligation to comply with the annual EIS completion obligation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE and abstentions of the L and of the Deputies of PS Alexandra Leitão and João Paulo Rebelo.]] The general vote of Bill No 715 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — Eliminate unjustified validity deadlines in online certificates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN, L and PS MP Alexandra Leitão and João Paulo Rebelo.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 753 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Creates a unique heritage base that enables the sharing of heritage data between Conservatories of the Building Registry, Tax Authority, Authorities and IMT. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, BE and L.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 568 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Mitigating the rupture of medicines in Portugal by production made by the National Medicines Laboratory. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 447 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure access to medicines, glasses, hearing aids and dental prostheses through their participation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 525 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Scheme for the participation of medicinal products, medical devices and supplements for enteric and parenteral feeding. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 746 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Financial support scheme for the acquisition of glasses and lenses, dental prostheses, hearing aids and orthopedic footwear. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 748 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Sets the conditions under which the National Laboratory for Medicinal Products may produce medicinal products in a situation of rupture or highly expensive. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 749 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends the beneficiaries of the additional health benefits and ensures the participation of the acquisition of hearing aids and orthopedic material, amending Decree-Law No 252/2007 of 5 July 2007. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 750 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It enables the recovery of VAT of acquisitions of medical equipment or equipment by IPSS, amending Decree-Law No 84 / 2017 of 21 July 2017. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 546 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency drug import model. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against IL, BE, PAN and L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 561 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the capacity and competences of the National Medicines Laboratory. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 612 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Close access to the medicinal product. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Then we will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 613 / XV / 1. a (IL) — For the sustainability of access to medicine and medical devices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstention from the NAP.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 606 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Combats the discharges of pig effluents in Leiria region and for the protection of the river Lis river basin. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the IL and the PCP, with votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 618 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Operationalization of a working group for the implementation of an integrated solution for the collection, treatment and enhancement of the effluents of pig husbandry, with a view to protecting the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and L, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We're going to vote, generally. the Resolution Project No 635 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Memorandum of Understanding with a view to implementing a definitive integrated solution for the problem of swine pollution in the Lis river basin. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, CH, IL, BE and L and abstentions of the CFP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u272	Mr President, with regard to the last two votes, we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u273	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 650 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to combat the discharges of the pig industry. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions to the PSD, CH and the CFP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 651 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Programme for safeguarding the environmental quality of the Lis River Basin. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the L and abstentions of the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 521 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government establish a guarantee fund for climate and seismic risks. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, IL and the CFP.]] We then voted on the Resolution Project No 156 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By creating a national fire command. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 592 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends extraordinary support for humanitarian firefighter associations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 415 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme of municipal indebtedness applicable to the costs of dealing with damage caused by the full situations in December 2022. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 615 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the purpose of collecting the rate of occupation of the subsoil to consumers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities on draft resolutions No 407 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of an international special court for crimes committed in the war of Ukraine and 467 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government support the process of setting up a special criminal court to investigate and judge the war crimes perpetrated by Russia in the invasion of Ukraine. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and votes against the CFP.]] The final overall vote of the final text is followed, submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, on draft resolution No 468 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government condemn Russia's eco-accident in Ukraine and support international initiatives to ensure the repair of the environmental destruction caused. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolutions Nos 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for the development of the voluntary carbon market in Portugal and 406 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a voluntary carbon market and encourage the use of greenbonds in Portugal. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD and PAN, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions to CH, IL and L.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on Bill No. 444 / XV / 1. a (L) — Strengthen the rights of consumers by ensuring the forced renewal of services or equipment whose useful life has not yet expired. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, on draft Law No 498 / XV / 1. a (L) — prohibits the sale of lottery and instant lottery tickets at stations and mail stations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against CH and IL.]] We will now vote on a request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary on points of final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 315 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government ensure more proximity policing. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then vote on point 1 of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 315 / XV / 1. a ( IL). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on point 2 of that text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS and IL, votes against PSD, CH, PCP, BE and PAN and L abstention.]] We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 315 / XV / 1. a ( IL). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the PCP and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u274	Mr President, I should like to make a statement of an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u275	Surely, Mr President, it will be at the end of the vote. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 448 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Protect the Gerês Peneda National Park by investing in more supervision, planning and ecological restoration. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 630 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures and incentives for the production of energy for self-consumption from renewable sources under the National Reform Programme 2023 and the creation of the Sun for All programme. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We will now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolution No 522 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government assess the possibility of classifying the Journal of News archive. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on draft resolution No 571 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of innovation and modernisation of public management to a simpler, speedy and efficient State at the service of people. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We will now vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on the Proposal for a Law No 61 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. We begin by voting for the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Land and Local Power on the Proposal for a Law No 61 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Pedro Pinto to proceed with the oral vote on draft resolution No 315 / XV / 1. a ( IL).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the final text we have just adopted, on draft resolution No 315 / XV / 1. a (IL) we cannot vote in favour of it for a very simple reason: if, with the first part, when it is said that more patrol is needed and more proximity police, we already agree, in the second part, we cannot agree with the closing of the teams. We do not have two countries, we have one, and we cannot centralize things only in Lisbon and Porto. For example, a number of GNR posts ( Republican National Guard) have stopped counting service cars for debts to the workshops. This is what this Socialist Party Government has given: debts to the workshops. More than 1300 cars are currently stopped. The patrol of the populations is at risk, including the patrol of the Rali de Portugal, which begins today too. The 4x4 SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service) cars are also in the workshops, and there is no money to get them out of there. Fire surveillance and prevention are at risk. of the 20 vessels for preventing and combating drug trafficking, 12 are inoperative. This is what the Socialist Party has given Portugal! They continue to close teams as well as territorial posts of the GNR, as has happened well recently, for example, in Soalheira, in the Town Hall of the Fundão, in the district of Castelo Branco. Then, if we focus on the reality of the country, for example, Moura and Métola have a patrol for 100 km2. And they still want to close more teams and more GNR posts. For God's sake, a securityless country is a drifting country, and that is the country that the Socialist Party has given us. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-12.u277	This concludes the voting period. The next plenary meeting is on May 17th, Wednesday, with the agenda set by the PS, being concerned the assessment of the Bill No 762 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Change the system of assigning the name itself by promoting the self-determination of gender identity and expression, in general, and of Resolution Projects Nos 678 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to ensure the automatic, informal and free updating of the various registrations in public records following the change of sex in the civil register and the consequent change of name and 679 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrates the national day of trans visibility. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 24 minutes.]]
