ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to begin our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of the Rosinha, to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 372 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 373 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 374 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 375 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. He also entered into the Bureau the Bill No. 459 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u3	The first item on our agenda concerns the general assessment of Bill No 140 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures the public management of water supply and sanitation, and of initiatives with it being dragged: Bill No. 429 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public management of water and sanitation systems and 440 / XV / 1. a (L) — Right to basic sanitation. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water is a fundamental right, essential to life and protected both in international agreements signed by Portugal within the United Nations ( UN ), or as constitutional law, provided for in one of the most basic articles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. However, we often find that access to this essential asset to life is difficult because of economic obstacles. As it is essential, it is also, at the same time, an appetite for various economic interests, which see as its main relevance the profit that it can give them. Unfortunately, over time — the PSD in particular, but not only — has allowed the privatization of municipal water systems to question access to this essential good and service. The result is unequivocal, but it is worth drawing attention to him. It tells us the Portuguese Consumer Protection Association (DECO) in a recent report on water tariffs, which, after analyzing water tariffs and service throughout the country, there are two obvious conclusions: public management is more efficient and cheaper. This conclusion is important because in recent decades we have seen a process of privatization of water services that has been disastrous in Portugal, as it has been disastrous in several other countries: it has resulted in rising prices, new rates and deteriorating services. People began to pay more to have worse supply service and, with regard to a fundamental concern, there was a greater waste of water, in a context where climate change required greater care in water and supply networks. That is why, and not by chance, that, in view of the data presented by the DECO in Portugal and the unequivocal data presented by the UN from several countries scattered around the world, some municipalities, such as those in Paris and Berlin, and several cities in the United States of America — attention, Liberal Initiative, we are talking about the United States of America! — they chose to remunicipate the water.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u5	What do I have to do with America? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u6	This is because private delivery, market delivery, is worse for populations and access to this essential service, to this essential good, which is water and its distribution, and is also worse for the environment. The same thing happened here in Portugal. Recently, Setúbal made that decision. In Mafra, with the decision to remunicipalize the supply and distribution of water, an average of 13 % was saved in the family invoice. We see the same in the intentions of Carrazeda de Ansiães, of Paredes and of other municipalities. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is curious how, after privatizing, there is a "stone path" to remunicipalize. The service is worse, it is more expensive and charges are invented to overvalue the payment to the private, and it is very difficult to undo those contracts, which seem armored. Actually, everything, I repeat, everything is difficult. We have seen this in several municipalities, such as Walls and Peace of Ferreira, and even the Court of Auditors itself presents them with difficulties. We often do not even know who owns private companies, because they have already moved away from private funds. In fact, the current President of ERSAR (Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ) was the former administrator of one of the private companies and therefore, not by chance, withdrew the obligation of private companies to tell who their owners are, creating another space of opacity. So what the Left Block proposes is simple: that we listen to the UN, that we hear the DECO, that we hear the populations, that we listen to the presidents of the chamber and that we help them remunicipalize the water systems that are currently deprived. We propose that new concessions be prohibited, that the public rescue be a legal right and that the central State also support the authorities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u7	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From 25 April to 1993, public water supply and wastewater sanitation services have always been an exclusive responsibility of the local administration, i.e., they have been responsible for democratically elected, electable, and public service-oriented entities. From 1993 onwards, the various governments have approved over the years legislation which has created the conditions for privatization of the sector in a logic of gradual private appropriation of water and sanitation services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u10	By 2020, the management model granted was already 12 % and the delegation model reached 13 % of the managing entities. The privatization of water services, which the CFP has always fought, has become increasingly disastrous, representing the degradation of the quality of services and the worsening of asymmetries in access to services, mainly through the increase in prices to satisfy the profits of concessionary companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u12	Water services with fixed networks are by definition natural monopolies, and concessionaires form an oligopoly. As expected, the results of privatization in this area have proved to be disastrous for local authorities and attacks on the universal right to water and sanitation. We saw, at the international level and also with a national expression, a movement of remunicipalization of these services, after a period of complete privatization. Among hundreds of revisions around the world, we cite the paradigmatic example of the reversal for the public management of the water supply of the city of Paris, previously granted to the two largest multinationals of the sector, such as that which was accompanied by dozens of French cities, to which on 1 January 2023 joined the cities of Lyon and Bordeaux. Also in Portugal, we have the recent example of the authority of Setúbal, which has reverted to the public sphere the management of water supply by reintegrating workers, ensuring continuity of service and the reduction of price to consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u13	It's worth a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u14	The CFP proposes a law that prevents any new contracts or renewal of concessions in order to ensure public water management. The proposal does not call into question existing concession contracts because it provides for a transitional regime until the end of the currently in force contracts. The existence of this safeguard also does not prevent any authority from making a complaint of such contracts, in particular where the fulfilment of the contractual obligations is concerned. Our initiative also provides that, as in the excellent example of Setúbal, the continuity of the service and the integration of all workers into the frameworks of the public bodies that are now providing these services, while maintaining all the most favourable collective bargaining rights, until further negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if water is a universal human right, thus recognized by the United Nations, then its management cannot be subject to maximum profit logics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u15	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u16	The control of this essential good to life must be subject to logics of public interest, democratic control and response to the needs of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u17	To present the legislative initiative of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about basic sanitation, we obviously talk about access to a precious and essential good like water, but we also talk about all fundamental rights. We talk about hygiene and health, we talk about dignity, we talk about environment and we talk about sustainability. It is a central element of a harmonious life, in community, and a sustainable life in relation to nature. It is not by chance that one of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals — Objective 6 — is on drinking water and on sanitation, in particular on access to sanitation for all people. Let us now consider Portugal, a developed country, according to all international criteria, in which one fifth of the population — or a little less, about 15 % of the population — does not yet have access to secondary waste water treatment systems. There are 50 000 people who have not yet channeled water. About 50 municipalities do not reach at least 50 % of housing coverage served by wastewater drainage systems. According to the 2021 Annual Report of Water and Waste Services in Portugal, it is concluded that over the last decades investments in this area and the rate of adherence to service have been low and that the system is inefficient. In addition, we have a privatization logic which in recent years has led to the co-optation by economic groups, which have often corrupted municipal executives—just look at the news—that gave rise to hyper-individo municipal chambers. The Free House therefore believes that it is necessary to explicitly acknowledge the right to basic sanitation in the Constitution itself, in the process of constitutional review that we now have, and that it is necessary to establish a public network of water supply and sanitation, coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment and Climate Action, which guarantees the principles of universal access, of comprehensive planning with public health and environment policies, of economic efficiency and sustainability, of transparency and quality, in conjunction with other public policies. We therefore thank the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which brought this debate to the House, and the CFP, which also presented proposals that go in the same direction: that of bringing back to the public what should never cease to be public.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u19	To speak now in the debate, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the Left Block, the PCP and the Free Block for bringing to debate projects on water supply, waste water sanitation and — there is also a reference in this regard — urban waste management. Any of these projects defend the monopoly of public services. The position of the Arrival is to reject this position in its entirety. We defend balanced commitments between public and private entities, which allows for the lowest possible cost for users and high levels of quality of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u22	The projects on the left only see the good side of the public and the bad side of the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u24	And on the contrary, it would be the same, because reality denies that. The example of Sintra is that the transition from private management to public management has deteriorated the quality of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u25	All right! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u26	The PCP refers to the reverse to Setúbal. We trust your evaluation, but in your project, they only refer to a reduction in the price for consumers, not having a word in your project on quality. There is another case: in 2020 the waste of drinking water reached 122 million m3, equivalent to almost three months of national consumption. There is a private company — I will not say what it is — which can significantly reduce this waste. I put the following question to the Left Block, the CFP and the Free Block: are the complementarity, competition and balance between the public service and the private service either defending or not defending the people? Do you defend, or do you not defend, the environment? [[Congrats from the CH.]] I want to discuss another aspect, which has to do with the globalist burden of the projects under discussion. It is not possible to ignore the severity of the pressures that diminish the planet's water resources. These pressures result from population growth, from economic activities and demographic changes, and there is a "white elephant" in the environmental discourse on the left, which is Africa. The left uses and abuses cases such as that of Amazonia of Bolsonaro's time to hide the gravity of its environmental irresponsibility in other contexts. Africa has been persisting for half a century in an unsustainable cycle of population explosion and urban concentration. Pressures on the environment in Africa are overwhelming: rapid deforestation, difficulty in access to drinking water, severe lack of sanitation of waste water or treatment of urban waste. The phenomena of emigration in the current African context cannot be separated from the potential spread of epidemics and pandemics. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u27	The environmental problems of the planet are not solved without an international consensus on birth control policies in Africa, and no one in this room wants to fight poverty in Africa more than I do! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this does not happen, because social thinking is poisoned by prejudices and falsehoods about slavery, racism or "colonialism". Mental pollution is the soul of environmental pollution. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u28	To intervene, by the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three projects under discussion focus on water supply, an obviously quite relevant issue, on which we have already presented some initiatives. As we know, the supply network we have has high losses, in order of 25 %, and it is estimated that we can lose up to 25 % of our available water by the end of the century. We therefore agree, of course, that solutions need to be discussed, not only for supply, as we do today, but also for economic activities such as tourism and agriculture to continue to grow. However, in this effort of several parties on the left, we realize that the solution is certainly not in these projects. The PCP and the Block want, like magic, to nationalize all water companies and that, also by magic, services become functioning smoothly, we calculate that same as TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), CP ( Portugal Trains ) and Portugal Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u30	The CTT (Emails of Portugal) are a marvel!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u31	With this ideological obstinacy, which solves no problem, the problem will certainly not be solved. On the other hand, the Free project, despite realizing its intentions, I think it's a bit of a sin for the opposite. We find such a vague initiative that we are not aware of its role, since there is already a law of essential public services that responds to the rights which you wish to enshrine: Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July, which I recommend to you to consult. Perhaps, if we changed this law and did not create another diploma, the discussion would be better, because there would be less legislative dispersion. Creating a loose law while there is already another that deals with the same subject does not seem to me the best practice, but I admit that there may be something I do not know. That is why, in voting on this initiative, we will abstain. In the field of expertise, listening to your arguments, if there are any significant changes, then we will then decide whether, in the overall final vote, we will have a sense of vote against it or not. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u32	Mr António Monteirinho has the floor to speak by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing three bills related to the water supply system and sanitation. The Left Block bill recommends that public management of water supply and sanitation be ensured and does not allow new concessions to private companies, nor renewals or extensions of concessions to private companies. But I must say that, in this area, there is already abundant legislation, implemented by the governments of the Socialist Party, in particular Law No 44 / 2017, which made the fifth amendment of the Water Law and which, in its articulation, is very clear: it establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector. As regards the draft law of the Communist Party, which establishes the regime for the recovery of public management of supply and sanitation systems, it recommends, in its articulation, the prohibition of concessions and sub-concessions and of the delegation of that service to private capital entities. in this case, also applies Law No 44 / 2017, where precisely the same principle is established. Law No 88 -A / 97 defines which economic activities in this area can be accessed through concessions or sub-concessions. The proposal for compulsory recovery of public management of water and sanitation systems, since there is no difference between the distribution at high and low levels, directly affects the autonomy of local authorities. In this case too, the norm-work can be added. We cannot follow the ban on concessions to private parties, by the arguments previously raised, nor can we diabolize the private sector, or by saying otherwise, we cannot accept a new kind of nationalization of these concessions. As for the draft law of the Free, on the right to basic sanitation, this right is already provided for in the Law of Water and the Law of Basics of the Environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u34	To speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water, which is essential, critical and strategic resource, whether it is as public as it is, available to everyone in quantity and quality for consumption, use and use. its management, public or concessional, is expected to ensure efficiency, effective combating waste and quality service to citizens, as well as ensuring the financial and environmental sustainability of the systems implementing it. the policy is expected to aim and effectiveness of options, legislative stability, clear guidelines and objectives in the strategy and support to overcome the challenges of investment and the necessary advances in improving water supply and sanitation services. We are debating a very relevant topic, in which these aspects are the main priorities to be met, but today we have scheduled to discuss initiatives that represent anachronistic party views, backed by ideological prejudices that forget what is really important. The Left Block reaches the point of distorting the history of water supply in Portugal to justify its position. It goes to the nineteenth century to refer to a failed contract of three years and then jumps almost 120 years to omit the 80 years of operation of the Second Water Company, which, managed by privates, under the supervision of the State, solved the problem of supply in Lisbon. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] The PCP can blame the private for the degradation of water services in our country, in the same project in which it emphasizes and recognizes that it is the State that ensures the management of the overwhelming majority of systems and that the private intervenes only in a small percentage of cases. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these East views are really east, but east of reality. [[PSD applause.]] Ideological blindness distorts facts, blurs problems and prevents improvements. This private publicversus logic is absolutely anachronistic. There are concessions that have had very good performance, that are recognized in the sector and that are even the most awarded by the regulator. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We have excellent examples of management in the public sphere and excellent examples of private concession. It is the competence that counts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the performance, the quality of service provided to populations and the ability to solve problems! [[PSD applause.]] We are more concerned about the diagnosis made by the Free in its project, in which it stresses that we still have thousands of Portuguese without channeled water and insufficient coverage of systems in our country. The truth is that the relevant advances achieved in this sector over the decades have significantly slowed down with the weak government performance of the Socialist Party and the Governments of Antonio Costa, even with the beginning of their mandates being marked by revisions of relevant reforms aimed at the sustainability of the sector and promoting environmental protection and territorial cohesion. The results of this cycle of governance are in sight, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is enough to look at the results of the sector's strategic plan, the PENSAAR 2020 ( Strategic Water Supply and Waste Water Sanitation Plan ). The 2022 monitoring report is clear as water: performance is mediocre. of the 39 indicators defined, with objectives and data available, only seven achieved the targets set for 2020. We also set up a reduction in water losses, the use of treated waste water. We arrived in 2023, the consultation of the new strategic plan closed last May and nothing has been published until today. The slowness of the government has consequences and delays all. The failure to comply, in fact, happens: yesterday the deadline for transposition of the directive on the quality of water for human consumption has even ended. It is also a process of non-compliance that is on the way, to join the long list of the Ministry of the Environment, where there is also a failure to comply with waste water. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the way ahead is demanding. We need a wake-up government and we need to move forward to the next planning cycle. We must have clear rules, defining limits to the action of the private when justified, but we must guarantee them the same conditions and rules to be able to operate, so that they can contribute to their capacity for innovation, international experience and investment mobilization, for better performance and efficiency in the use of resources. We need the contribution of all public and private actors to advance the service to the people and ensure the economic and environmental sustainability that is needed in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u36	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water, as we know, is a very scarce, essential to life and socio-economic activities, as well as to the development of the country. That is why their access must be guaranteed universally and, of course, free of charge whenever possible. It makes no sense, in a world that faces the challenges of climate change, of extreme drought and water scarcity, we open the door to the mere privatization of access to water, because this may call into question the universal access, of the entire population, to this very scarce. On the other hand, in view of the proposals brought here, we cannot ignore the challenges and commitments arising from the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In Portugal, we still do not have access to basic sanitation in all places. We continue to be the country with more water losses and, despite this, we have seen initiatives in Parliament to include in the Efficient Valley the possibility of making repairs to mitigate this problem. In view of the size of the water problem and the importance it has for both human and animal life, and for the quality of life on the planet, it is essential that measures guarantee not only the management of water in the public sphere, but also the proper basic sanitation, because we simply think about the neighborhood of the Second Tower or the Fifth Iron to realize that there are still citizens who do not even have the right to basic sanitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u38	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Brito has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Notwithstanding what has already been invoked in the field of law — Article 3 ( b ). that of Law No 44 / 2017 — with regard to the exploitation and management of water, which has been guarded from the point of view of this management and of that laid down by Law No 88 / 97 — precisely the delimitations of sectors for the private initiative — I leave the idea that, together with management, what concerns the author is precisely the improvement of the efficiency of the use of water.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u40	I mean, being public or private doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u41	We still have 30 to 40 % water losses on high systems at many points of the territory today, and above all on low. Let me say that there are many municipalities that, even today, have not accounted for their own water consumption and, for example, make streams with treated water. This is a reality. There are many municipalities that still do not have the best capacity to invoice themselves the payment of water consumers. There is a world that the autoarchs ambition and that concerns precisely the scope of the use of water. To that end, it is important to understand what capacity is, what is freedom — that word that unites many of those who are here in Parliament — and the autonomy of local power, to be the Austrians, and not us, to define the models they want for the management and use of water. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u42	The freedom to privatize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u43	My dear people, there is EUR 650 million for the new generation of urban water cycle within the framework of the regional operational programmes, accompanied by more than EUR 150 million for energy efficiency provided for in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). It is other times, than the times of Poiares Maduro, to negotiate money with another capacity, so that the autarchs have an improvement in the use of water. On the other hand, let me also say to the gentlemen at my right hand that, because of the lack of respect for the capacity and autonomy of the local power, for your distance from your plans, I do not know whether it is for today to be Friday 13! — most of you, if you were candidates for local power, would not win on your street!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u44	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u45	Respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u46	I said! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u47	Is this the best PS can do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u48	To speak in the debate, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, when we talk about these water issues, this loss issue always comes to the dance, often ignoring that, within these numbers of losses, all the water that is not invoiced is included, for example, the water that is used to fight fires, which means that we are not always talking about losses that people associate with water leaks on the network. Then, it is very curious that the Socialist Party comes to speak of the autonomy of local power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u50	of freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u51	... since, in relation to investments to improve networks, precisely to avoid further losses, it was the government that placed in the criteria for access to POSEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources ) the requirement of municipalities to apply together with other entities to compete for support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u53	The municipalities cannot apply alone. [[PCP applause.]] With this obligation, is there no violation of the autonomy of local power? Oh, my God! There was a clear violation of autonomy, by preventing municipalities from having access to these support, from competing on their own. So, as far as the autonomy of local power is concerned, we are talking. We then heard the PS and the PSD make an acquittal defense of the privatization of these services, and Mr Bruno Coimbra said that the PCP proposals have an anachronistic vision. Now, I would like to say to the honourable Member that anachronistic vision is the view of the honourable Members. Members, because I have given some examples of how, in the major European capitals, the process is exactly the opposite of your vision: it is that of remunicipalization. [[CH and IL protests.]] The trend has already been reversed in Paris and Berlin and, in England, this is being discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u54	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u55	Comparing, for example, prices that are paid in England and Scotland, there is in Scotland a public system and in England a privatized system, the price difference is very large. That is why this discussion is already on the table. Therefore, anachronistic vision is the vision that ignores that the trend at the moment, at the international level, is that of reversal to the public sphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u56	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u57	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro also referred to the example of Setúbal, where the private proposal for the 2023 tariff was an increase of 10 %. The system was reverted to the public sphere and the price to be paid by the Setubalians is between 18 % and 21 % below the price it was being applied. The difference between the public and the private is here. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Nelson Brito and CH Member Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u58	After a few seconds of calm, the waters are calm, so you have the floor, for an intervention, at the close of the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, any self-help book will have the following phrase: « To change the world, it begins by yourself. So I will give you a suggestion that, humbly, I will copy these books: “In order to clear the minds, start by itself. To this end, if you vote in favour of the Left Block proposal, you can even do it with cheaper water, which you will see helps. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u60	To say, against all scientific evidence, that the problem of climate change is in the global South is not an invention, it is delirium. But, Mr President, everyone is drinking what they want and the honourable Member will decide on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CH Member Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.]] On the subject in particular, this is no ideological persecution in relation to private water management. It is only and only reality, and that is what the PSD, the Liberal Initiative — which we know is dogmatic and therefore reality often does not interest you — and the PS rejects knowing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u61	Isn't BE dogmatic? Oh, my God! [[IL Rodrigo Saraiva's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u62	What does DECO say? Oh, my God! It says that private services water tariffs in Portugal are more expensive, less efficient and less environmentally sustainable for families. Well, it's the DECO that says so. What does the United Nations say in its global survey? Oh, my God! It's obvious. This is what is leading a number of important municipalities, including European capitals, to municipalize their services. As I have already said, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative, even in the United States of America...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u63	But what do I have to do with America? Oh, my God! Tell me about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u64	... they recognized that public management is to safeguard the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u65	Who's the dogmatic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u66	Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, it is incomprehensible to come to this debate to mix garlic with bugs. [[Protests from PS Nelson Brito.]] They're talking about the privatization of high water distribution, when what we're discussing here is the low water distribution. You mix everything exactly to say: "The PS is on the left, because it defends the nationalization of the distribution at high! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, it was the Left Block, it was the left parties who took this position away from the Socialist Party, it was not the Socialist Party that had it initially. We are going to discuss the lower distribution and the PS begins by saying: "We are very left-handed, but we defend the autonomy of local power. » Autonomy for what? Oh, my God! So we can decide? Oh, my God! No, no! It's to be able to privatize and maintain privatization, even against what camera presidents say...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u67	The PS autarchs are from the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u68	... of the Socialist Party, which is: « Help us to get rid of draconian contracts, help us free our people from rates that are unbearable and prices that do not protect the public interest! Do not keep on seeking. ” To these challenges of camera presidents, even the Socialist Party, the PS says: « No, no! We can't play in private interests. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u69	How many cameras does the Block have? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u70	Mrs. Members, that is not to defend people, it is not to defend the environment, it is not to defend the improvement of the country: it is to defend the business. But that responsibility is yours, not ours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u71	We thus conclude the first item on the agenda and move on to the second item, which is from the joint assessment of Petition No 226 / XIV / 2. a ( STAL, ANDEEP, ANDE, FENPROF, CNIPE and FNSTFPS ) — Not the transfer of competences to municipalities ( municipalisation) in education and the Resolution Project No 320 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reversion of the process of transfer of competence to authorities in the area of education. To present the initiative of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos, who has the floor, is hereby inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to welcome this petition, for the discussion it brings to the Assembly of the Republic. This is a petition subscribed by various structures: the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), the STAL ( National Union of Local and Regional Administration Workers), the National Federation of Workers' Unions in Public and Social Functions, the CNIPE ( National Confederation of Independent Parents and Educational Officers), the ANDAEP ( National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools) and the ANDE ( National Association of School Leaders ). In other words, the entire educational community — teachers, workers, parents — places the need for a reversal of the process of transfer of competences, in the area of education, to the authorities in the Assembly of the Republic. The petitioners draw attention to the deresponsibility of the government and claim that this process of transfer of competence to authorities in the area of education questions the universal right of access to public school, free of charge and quality, and the universal character of the constitutional right to education. From the outset, the CFP has warned that the conditions for the exercise of these powers by the authorities have not been taken into account in this process, because there has been no strict lifting of the means and conditions for the exercise of these powers. Today, given the competences of the authorities, this statement is confirmed: the means for solving the problems have not been allocated and therefore these conditions have not been ensured. Not even the agreement signed between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities resolved the problem. In addition to the funds remaining insufficient, there were a number of commitments that were made and that are still to be fulfilled. I am referring to the ports which are to be published, in particular the proposal on the formula for financing expenditure on school transport, the financing of expenditure on equipment and the fitting of school buildings and the criteria for determining the maximum reference allocation for non-teachers. We're talking about portals that were already planned in a 2019 decree and we're already in 2023. The government committed itself last year to publish them within 90 days. Where's the 90 days? Oh, my God! [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u73	The truth is that there are still no answers to this problem. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this leads us to conclude that this was a process that went wrong, that goes wrong and that there is no solution. In fact, what guarantees the universal right to education and cohesion, what ensures that there are no more inequalities, more asymmetries, is the reversal of this process and the guarantee by the Ministry of Education of the conditions for fulfilling its educational responsibilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u74	The use of the word, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners and the unions, who, from the outset, have mobilized themselves against the municipalization of essential public services, as is the case with education, joining the alerts of so many and so many who said that with education, you cannot play. And it cannot be played, above all, with the universal right to education. Many countries have experienced models of municipalization of education, with disastrous results, some in Europe, others in Latin America. from these experiences, we removed the risks, for which we then warned, in this process: risks of subfinance of public school; risks of inequality of municipality to municipality, i.e. risks that, to each child, an education is given not according to the right it has, but according to the financial possibilities of its municipality; risks of privatization of services that are essential to the operation of schools, due to lack of scale of the municipalities that provide them; and risks of degradation of the labor rights of workers who were transferred to municipalities. There is, above all, the risk of losing sight of the possibility of recognizing something that has come to be recognized by the previous government, which is the need for specialization of workers who are in schools to accompany children, with all their technical specificities. We need to have back at schools educational action assistants and operational assistants who are recognized for the educational and pedagogical work they perform with those children and young people every day, not an operational assistant who is in the morning at the cemetery, is moved to the other side and then will cover a school break. This, in fact, already happens, as we have seen, when the chambers move to the official schools that are not school officials and are not used to working there, creating, in fact, problems of dual protection. This process took place without us being able to stop it, without the municipalities themselves being able to postpone it, when many of them—some great and some of the Socialist Party—would have been able to postpone this process even further. We will not cease to struggle for this process, in the impossibility of its reversal, in the current political context, to have at least the financial transfers that enable the authorities to maintain a public school of quality, with all the public services associated with it, with careers worthy of the specialized technicians and operational assistants. But we also do not forget that there is another danger right now — and it is against which teachers are now demonstrating themselves, also out there — that is the possibility of municipalizing the hiring of teachers. If it is true that the Government has retreated in relation to the possibility of an inter-municipal council of directors to choose teachers according to competence profiles—i.e., as it wished, arbitrarily—if it has been withdrawn, it is also true that Rui Moreira and Carlos Moedas, representatives, authors, on the right, also made it very clear that they wanted to municipalize the hiring of teachers. So the danger continues there and this struggle that teachers are doing right now is fair. We join the voices of those who say that our taxes must pay fair wages to teachers and not millionaire compensation to public managers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u76	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Petitioners, to whom we welcome the initiative: The Liberal Initiative is in favour of the process of decentralization, a process of decentralization which does not result in greater public expenditure, which does not result in duplication of structures, services or positions, which clearly quantifys the costs of the process and clearly is an approximation of local power to people. It is therefore not entirely reasonable for us to consider supporting the draft resolution of the CFP which provides for the reversal of the process of transfer of competences to authorities in the area of education. We're not surprised, we're not surprised that the PCP has this position. Indeed, it is the party that, in our view, contributes to the regression of the country's development. This discussion therefore also matters from the point of view of centralisation and decentralization, for two major reasons. First, because it is important that we continue to debate the evidence, for us, that municipalities do not currently have the skills or resources necessary to exercise effective decentralization. The second reason is the need to monitor the importance of monitoring the results of this attempt to transfer competences, something which the Liberal Initiative has discussed very much in plenary, in particular, and in the Commission with the Minister of Education. This is because monitoring and monitoring of policies are essential and this is another case in which it is failing, because it is not even clear that metrics are used to evaluate the process of decentralization in education. The municipalities, on the other hand, have revealed a growing capacity for intervention in the field, between know-how, knowledge of local populations, the reality of schools and social settings, and this is important. The central power cannot approach the local problems, hence also the approximation of the political position of the Liberal Initiative in the sense of the importance of the autonomy of schools and the increasing allocation of the proximity of local power. The insistence on centralizing is negative and therefore we do not follow this initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u78	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about what we don't know is a mess. In fact, what is happening here is that the left and the extreme left are trying to instrumentalize teachers, using the logic of Law No. 50 / 2018, of decentralization, trying to explore that this principle of municipalism in the area of education is something as if teachers were to send the curriculum to the department of human resources of the municipal chambers. That's all a lie. What is at issue here, in the decentralization of competences, has to do with Law No 50 / 2018, approved by PSD and PS. All agreed — and we also agreed — with the principle of decentralization, but we have maintained the principle, from the outset, that what was missing was money. It is interesting to realize that today the PCP and the Left Block are coming to shout « ai Jesus, who needed words», given that the law is 2018 and that after that several State budgets were approved by those banks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u80	Which ones? Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u82	... with no question of increasing the funds for municipal chambers and for decentralisation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You have instrumentalized this issue, but we believe there are serious issues to be resolved in career progression and in the way SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration) and how PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in Public Administration) have treated teachers. But you want to put teachers in a war that is not theirs, because what is at stake and what is in this law is the planning of the offer of schools, school transportation, the management of school social action, the provision of meals, the management of school residences, the recruitment and selection of non-teaching personnel and the agility with the security forces of surveillance and safety of equipment. It has nothing to do with hiring educational professionals, especially teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u83	Auxiliaries aren't education professionals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u84	You are still logical, as if you were in the 1980s, distributing leaflets at school doors and considering that propaganda logic continues to work. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] What is certain is that if there are no values in decentralization right now, there are names of leaders of the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block, because you have made the decentralization of competences. [[Congratulations from BE.]] However, this decentralisation without money has already been renegotiated with Minister Ana Abrunhosa, saying that it is €20 000 given to schools. And how did we find these 20 000 euros to do the works in schools? With the average investment in recent years. Now, it wasn't necessary to go to school to realize that if we haven't made investments in recent years, the average doesn't take into account the needs of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u85	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u86	But, however, during the discussion of the State budget, when we talked about this and when we said that there was a need to increase the funds, the Communist Party was shouting a lot about populism and talking to us about the issue of some schools having 31 000 € of work assignment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u88	The problem is that these schools that have 31 000 € are schools of the School Park and not schools of the school park. The School Park is a company that manages the building of virtually new schools. Therefore, 31 000 € in a school that needs small works is different from 30 000 € or 20 000 € for a school that really needs works.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u91	You come here to play with the teachers' career, trying to instrumentalize what you need to put on the street, which is your armed arm, your union center,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u93	... trying to create problems, when, in reality, what's at stake is not this, it's something else completely disparate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u95	It is for this and other reasons that, for you, we have a problem, which is when they ask us why it comes now that you want a federation of trade unions. Simple : to defend the interests of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u96	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u97	...and not to instrumentalize them, as you did 47 years ago. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u98	To intervene by the PAN party, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us now begin by welcoming the petitioners, not only the teachers, but also all the non-teachers and students in this country who are currently on strike, fighting for some rights that are not today, are of long ago. Education is, in fact, the basis of any society and, without the appreciation of its professionals and the rights that are being claimed, we will hardly have an education system that can in any way value the component of the human dimension and also of labour rights. Although there is no doubt as to its importance, the professionals in this sector have been constantly trained by successive governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u100	What does that have to do with what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u101	They have seen their careers frozen; they wait for years for career integration; they have placements at many kilometres away from home, without any support. There are schools without minimally acceptable conditions, whether for students either for teachers, where it goes cold and where it rains inside. It is a career that is not at least attractive for young people who want to enter it. They are therefore waiting for solutions. More than promises, more than meetings, they call for effective solutions for the education sector, in particular the revision of the recruitment and mobility scheme, the recovery of frozen service time and the specific retirement scheme. We have recently heard Mr Prime Minister, in this Parliament, withdraw the intention of municipalization as well as the Minister of Education—who has even accused the representatives of the workers of not telling the truth—but the risks of a municipalisation are far greater than the time we have here to list them. But there is no doubt that we should all be with the teachers, if we want a future with serious and effective education for our young people. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u102	I would like to congratulate the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 8280 petitioners who have subscribed to Petition No 226 / XIV / 2. a, in which they request the non-transfer of competences to the municipalities in education. In appreciation is also the Resolution Project No 320 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reversion of the process of transfer of competence to authorities in the area of education. The transfer of competences to municipalities has always been claimed by them, arguing that public policies should be developed by the territorial level best placed to promote them with rationality, effectiveness and proximity to citizens. over the years, the autoarchs of this country have always assumed responsibilities in the area of education. In time of pandemic, it was not the rapid intervention and action of our autarchs and the learnings would be even more committed, because these were, together with the groups of schools, which ensured meals, computers and the Internet to all students, and all the more that was needed. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, many authorities are still waiting to be compensated by the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u105	... of these and other expenditure, which have been reported to DGAL ( Directorate-General for Local Authorities ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u107	The PSD has always defended and applied the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and the autonomy of local power. This is not at all in content or in form, the decentralisation advocated by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u108	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u109	The Government and the PS have wasted an opportunity to make a real reform of the organization and management of the State, ensuring its coherence and territorial cohesion and extending the network of public services of proximity. They have ignored the ongoing experience since July 2015, in the field of education, with more transferred skills and more funding, so the decentralisation now carried out corresponds to a backwardness. This process of decentralization or attempt of decentralization, implemented by the socialist government, has gone wrong because it has always been late, based on situations of doubtful and untransparent legality. [[PSD applause.]] The funds involved were always considered insufficient by the municipalities. The government mistreated the authorities and the autarchs, ignoring the alerts and evidence, saying that everything would be in time and hours and doing the authentic municipalities. He extended deadlines, but delegated and imposed responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u111	At 25. the time, almost four months after the delegation of competence, the government was obliged to withdraw and sign a commitment agreement with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u113	In addition, this agreement will only apply for the year 2023, with doubts as to what the compensation authorities will be for the expenditure of 2022, which are not covered by it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u114	Well remembered! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u115	Having arrived here, where the municipalities were obliged to assume the delegation of competences in education, we believe that the government should recognize the municipalities as partners, in the strategic definition of their respective competences and not as mere "renting barrels" of the central State. [[PSD applause.]] It must take into account the reality of each council and give municipalities more autonomy in management, so that there are effective gains for the citizen with this transfer of skills. It must safeguard the autonomy of schools. It shall recognise the underfinancing and update the values to be transferred, taking into account market prices, and publish the missing portfolios and provided for in the commitment agreement signed with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. This process of transfer of competences shall not be adequately monitored and monitored and shall put the Commission's functions into effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u117	To conclude, and as if not enough, the compromise agreement signed on 22 July 2022 guarantees to municipalities the financing of 100 % for the requalification of schools, but will be mobilised for the works of the Regional Operational Programmes, i.e. of European funds already intended for the authorities, which is unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]] It is appropriate to say: « Here dwells Friar Thomas, who well says and what evil he does. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u118	For an intervention, Mrs Lúcia Araújo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u119	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The petition today under discussion and the related initiative of the CFP on the reversal of the process of transfer of competence to authorities in the area of education, according to the proposers—and in a framework of sub-financing—, call into question the universal right of access to a free and quality public school. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the local democratic power, which has over four decades, has shown us how close it is to the citizens, which, in a more effective way, solves the problems of the population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u120	Thus, the ongoing process of decentralization is one of the most structural reforms for our country, had several phases in recent years and generalized to all municipalities, starting in April 2022, applying Decree-Law No 21 / 2019. Recently, through the sectoral agreement of commitment between the National Association of Municipalities and the Government for decentralization in the fields of education and health, a set of commitments in the field of education has been defined through the adequacy of financial, technical and human resources, by setting criteria that determine the values to be transferred to municipalities in the area of building, maintenance, conservation, equipment and fitting of school buildings, in ensuring funding for the construction of new infrastructures and in the recovery or expansion of basic education establishments, the second and third cycles and secondary priority intervention education. The update of the maximum value of school meals, the financing of transport, the determination of the ratio of non-teaching staff by group of schools was also defined, ensuring that the costs of occupational accident insurance are ensured by the central administration, as well as the guarantee of the health system of the transferred workers and the workers to be hired. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also worth noting that the Commission for the Monitoring of Decentralisation, as provided for in Law No 50 / 2018, which includes representatives of the parliamentary groups of the Assembly of the Republic, including the CFP, is responsible for assessing the adequacy of financial resources for each area of competence. It was therefore clear that at the last meeting of the Decentralisation Monitoring Committee, held last December, the financial resources transferred to municipalities in the field of education were translated into a value greater than EUR 0.5 million, thus exceeding the same expenditure reported from January to September of the same period. It is a value of €480 000, which gives an excess of €100 000, between transfers made and expenses reported, although still valid. It is also noted that we have an increase in transfers to municipalities and that the mechanism for updating funds is planned based on inflation and expenditure in order to adjust and update the fund. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, because we are talking about the transfer of competences in the area of education — and given the false narrative installed — it is worth recalling, not only those who hear us out there, but also the Member of the Left Block, that the Government has never proposed any process of municipalization of the recruitment of teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u121	This hypothesis is not even equationed by the government, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education have already said. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government, in cooperation with the authorities and inter-municipal communities, has implemented decentralization in the field of education, with a clear success, thus contradicting what the CFP says. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u122	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u123	Madam President, let us imagine the most scarce resource in the country. It is not oil, it is not lithium, it is even a young person or a young person who has a vocation of teaching, who has talent, who wants to teach and who is currently looking at what is happening in the area of education and choosing a career. What do you see? The teachers on strike, a sector full of problems, a government that does not realise whether or not it negotiates and does not publicly value the negotiation and then sees the party that supports the government saying that a false narrative has been installed that the hiring of teachers would be municipalized. But how did this false narrative get installed? Because, of course, the Minister of Education let it settle,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u124	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u125	... because it was ambiguous, because it wasn't clear, because it wasn't transparent enough. This is all we don't need to do. What we need to do is convene general states of education, have unions, have authorities, have parents, have students...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u126	Have you read the law? You know what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u127	...and make it clear that there is municipalization and municipalization. There is a municipalization or decentralization that can be democratic, that can involve everyone in school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u128	The law already exists! Go read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u129	... that can help center education in the student and there is a municipalization that is made of board of directors and that will basically make schools a more authoritarian space and once again give less autonomy and accountability. And this young man or this young man, who would like to teach...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u130	But what does that have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u131	You're out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u132	... and that you are not thinking about going to a career full of problems, even less will you realize that your future will be a future in which the authoritarianism of October 5 goes to that of the directors or the autarchs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u133	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u134	Therefore, without some general states of education, without the country giving the centrality that education deserves to our challenges of the future, we will not be able nor will we be able to dignify the profession of teacher today, nor to value the vocation of teacher for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u135	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u136	To close this debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings here the feeling on the part of the educational community. We can see in the teachers' demands that this matter of the transfer of competences to the authorities in the area of education raises, yes, the universality of the right to education when the means are not assured. In particular, the Government and the PS are talking about the strengthening of school conservation and maintenance funds on an average of €30 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u138	2019, 2020, 2021 : Budgets approved by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u139	But, Mrs. Member, the external painting of a school costs 80 000 €! I believe that there is a clear lack of money, which also calls into question the autonomy of schools themselves, that is, what should be advanced so that schools can have greater intervention in what is under their responsibility, but that is not the path of PS and PSD — yes, because this is happening because the PS and PSD so wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u140	Budgets approved by you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u141	However, I would also like to restate the truth of what has been said in this debate, because on the side of arrive, of course, no one is expecting any kind of solution to these problems. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u142	She's sick of lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u143	Mr Bruno Nunes, listen...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u144	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u145	... listen, to know what you are talking about, because in the discussion of the State budget for 2023, in the article of the Financing Fund for Decentralisation which voted against was the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u146	What about management?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u147	However, looking at the votes of the parties, in particular the rules relating to money, see: the CH abstained, bailing on the transfers of the government to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u148	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u149	I therefore believe that it is clear who is telling the truth here in the Plenary and in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u150	Tell the truth! Lie to the teachers all the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u151	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u152	I conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: what is at stake is the universality of the right to education. We are not faced with a process of decentralization, but, yes, transfer of charges to the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u153	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u154	...and there is no proximity that solves this, when the conditions for the exercise of competence are not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u155	What about the state budgets approved by you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u156	I'm going to help myself with a popular saying, "you can't make omelettes without eggs"...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u157	Ask the PAN, there must be vegan omelets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u158	...and the unconditional authorities, without means, cannot solve the problems that PS, PSD and CDS, over the years of governance, have never been resolved, being first responsible for their worsening.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u160	Therefore, the solution is the one that the CFP here brings, of reversal of this process in the next school year, ensuring the investment that is fundamental in public school, for the benefit of the workers and the appreciation of their careers and salaries. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u161	What does that have to do with teachers' career?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u162	Mrs. Members, we turn to point three of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of Petition No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( CIPSO - Group of citizens by the Odivelas elders ) — The construction of a public senior residential structure in Odivelas and the Resolution Projects Nos 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of a new public residential structure for the elderly in Odivelas and 319 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By building a home of elderly public management in the Odivelas municipality. Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u163	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: First, and on behalf of the Left Block, I would like to greet the group of citizens by the Odivelas elders who bring this issue to the Assembly and which allows this discussion in plenary. What happened in Odivelas, the end of public equipment for caring for older people, unfortunately also happened in other cities. There is, first, the idea that social security, when it is responsible for equipment such as a home of the elderly, a residential structure for the elderly, cannot manage it directly and, therefore, it has to outsource, in case, to the Holy House of Mercy — this happened in Odivelas in 2011, as happened in Porto, for example—there has been the closure of these own equipment, as happened in this case, in 2016, and also in Porto, in a case that is close. In Portugal we live a dual aging process: aging at the top, by increasing the average life expectancy, which is good news, of course, and aging at the base, resulting from demographic changes and from having declining birth rates. We therefore have a very significant percentage of citizens over the age of 65 — we are one of the countries that is growing older, from a demographic point of view, at a faster rate — but we have very little care for the elderly. For example, only 13 % of the elderly benefit from responses within the social response network, such as residential structures for the elderly, day centres or home support. That is, we have a very low coverage of formal care for elderly people and we also have little institutional innovation and a lack of public network in this area. The petitioners draw attention to the fact that, in the Odivelas case, we are talking about 23 500 people 65 years of age and a total shortage of solutions from the solidarity network. In other words, the institutions that currently exist in the Odivelas municipality respond to about 200 people, so they propose that a public residential structure be created in the Odivelas monastery space. The Left Block argues that it is up to the State to ensure a public response, to enforce constitutional rights, with regard to support for older persons, and to stop outsourcing only to non-profit private sector institutions. We therefore propose that the Assembly of the Republic recommend that the Government follow this request and create a residential structure for elderly people in Odivelas in the space that is suggested here, that it do so as part of a public network of care for the elderly and as embryo of construction of what, for us, should be a national care service, with public provision and with a multiplicity of answers that currently do not exist. This is what we propose in this recommendation to the Assembly, and we hope that there will be a majority for it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u164	Before I spoke to the next speaker, I was informed that the petitioners were present in the galleries and, therefore, I would like to leave a very special greeting. Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, it is due to a greeting to the group of citizens by the Odivelas elders who, in the face of a concrete and urgent need of the population, mobilized and collected 4346 signatures, between the resident or working population in the Odivelas council, to require the construction of a public senior residential structure in their council. It is important to say that this problem is not just a problem of this population, it is a national, structural problem that should have other attention. The petitioners thus force the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the situation of the old age not only in Odivelas, but throughout the country, which is indeed to greet. People over 65 account for 23% of the population, and the trend is that they will represent an increasing share. It is not conceivable that there is a lack of social responses, as it is not worthy that successive governments give this social group to the degradation of their living conditions, their rights, after a lifetime of work. The real value of pensions, as well as real and visible public investment in social responses that, among other valences, create a public home network, is urgently needed. The CFP uses this debate to ensure that it will continue to defend the creation of at least 80 000 vacancies in residential structures supporting the elderly of the public network by 2026, corresponding to the creation of 20 000 vacancies per year, with immediate start. The private network, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as well as insufficient for the needs, are inaccessible to the majority of the population due to their very high costs. But what is most unbelievable — and it is what brings us together today — is that, in this social context, the closure of a structure that has worked since 1975 and that was a home of elderly public management, with convivial center valences, day centre, home, home support and integrated home support. With direct responsibilities of the different governments, and in contrast to their constitutional obligations and the growing needs of this type of equipment, a path was made, with the transfer of 25 equipment from the Lisbon district centre of social security, which led to the closure of this home. It is an unacceptable situation that Parliament today has the opportunity to reverse. The transfer of the Odivelas Monastery to the local authority, as already mentioned here, creates conditions for the installation, in that space, of a public management home that responds to this increasingly necessary public service equipment. That is why this Parliament, Mr President. Members, it must urge the Government to advance the construction of a senior public residential structure in Odivelas, approving the draft resolution of the PCP and responding to the population involved in this petition for a cause that is just, necessary, current — increasingly current! — and that it needs an urgent response. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u167	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the petitioners who have come to claim not only a public residential structure for the elderly in the Odivelas municipality, but also to recall that these answers are an obligation of the State, arising from constitutionally consecrated rights. Portugal is the country of the European Union which is growing older faster: we have twice as old as children and young people. However, in the case of Portugal, the increase in average life expectancy has not been accompanied by an improvement in quality of life, whether due to health issues, economic vulnerability or the absence of adequate social equipment that allow not only active aging but also participation in society. With regard to households, the situation is paradigmatic and truly worrisome, either because years are expected for a vacancy in the social sector, either because you pay 1500 € to 2400 € in the private sector, and all this is associated with lack of human resources or a lack of decent care. in a country where the average pension is around 480 € and the average wage is just above 1000 €, an answer outside the social sector is, for many families, impracticable. A dignified aging implies a new response model and a serious investment. The Government indicated that it would use EUR 217 million from the RPP to improve the response to elderly people in need of homes and home support by 2026. But a home support bet, which is very important, does not invalidate the need for public structures, such as the one claimed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u168	For an intervention, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I welcome you. Petitioners, saying that the Liberal Initiative has a positive view of your claim — we understand the context in which they present it! — and that he also has this concern about the care to be provided at the age of age. We have some difference of view regarding the projects that have been presented with regard to a purely public view of solutions, that is manifest.In any case, we are not worth extending the arguments: in view of this understanding of the position they present, the Liberal Initiative will obviously not prevent these initiatives from moving forward. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u170	With a spine of these, you won't last long as IL leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u171	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Cabrita of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to welcome the initiative, the petitioners, the concern they bring here and to underline the importance of this matter. It is important to take consecutive steps to improve access to social responses, particularly in areas where coverage is smaller, as is the case with the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. This is, for the PS, the fundamental objective that needs to be pursued: strengthening the supply and coverage of social responses for the elderly. Now, no one is unaware of two realities, on the one hand, the country continues, as has already been mentioned, to need to strengthen supply, particularly in metropolitan areas, and on the other hand, needs are increasing due to the ageing of the population. The solution is to diversify responses, not being exhausted from residential solutions, but also through home support. But no one ignores—and the PS recalls here—that, in recent decades, very significant steps have been taken, with the strengthening of the partnership with the social sector, which is now at the top of history, with transparency in the expansion of the network, with successive generations of the PARES (the Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme) and now the PRR, and also with the qualification and diversification of the responses. The PS is proud of the way in which the country has made this reinforcement in the care network, in childhood, in disability, for the elderly, and that allows us to have more than 100 000 people in homes today, more than 110 000 people in home support, more than 60 000 people in day-care centres throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we are proud of the steps that continue to be taken, with the priority given to this matter, with PARES 2.0 and PARES 3.0 — EUR 425 million — which is now added to the PRR, reaching a total of EUR 700 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u173	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u174	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the petitioners correctly identify a problem and a need which is consensual. It is a problem and a need because the closure of the home of Odivelas has been recognised as a backwardness and this path must be reversed. In addition, the Odivelas council has had a systematic reinforcement of vacancies in social responses for the elderly, with the effort and investment of the municipal chamber, taking advantage of government programmes. Today, they are more than twice as many as we had about 20 years ago, and the exception is even the coverage of supply in residential structures. therefore also the need to find alternatives and take advantage of the instruments we have today to expand the responses to the population in this area. This is what has to be done, and this is what is being done. It is public that the government has launched new vacancies from PARES. The RRP is an investment that will allow nearly 53 000 social responses, of which 40 000 for the elderly, 25 000 vacancies in homes. It is the expression of a priority and an investment that is being made. For the Lisbon district only, there are more than 100 million euros between the PRR and PARES. There will be intervention in 26 homes and there will be 1,000 new vacancies in residential structures for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, yes, the government has already become public — to respond to the honourable Members. Members — who have been approved nominations in Odivelas. In particular there are two applications that are approved and in progress, one of them is precisely for the home of Odivelas, with 55 vacancies in residential structures and 40 in home support service. Another is in Families, also with an IPSS (private institution of social solidarity), with 40 vacancies of residential structure, 60 home support and 40 day center. The PRR, as a whole, will allow 235 new vacancies for responses for the elderly in Odivelas, of which 95 in residential structure, representing a 47% growth in relation to what exists today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the greatest ever reinforcement of the network in Odivelas. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: It doesn't solve everything, but it's relevant steps. It is the fastest and most effective way to respond to the fundamental concern of petitioners without becoming hostage to other debates, while providing, as a community, concrete and effective responses to the elderly of Odivelas and the other municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u175	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When a group of citizens join together, join and decide to create a movement to fight for the well-being of the population, this has a very clear meaning. It means the state has failed and continues to fail. By failing the State, this House has also failed and continues to fail, since the majority of this House — which has supported and supported the PS government — continues not to defend the common good.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u178	We all know the degrading conditions in which most of the establishments are for the elderly, which the government has been maintaining today and for many years. So I want to say hello to the person of the gentlemen. Petitioners, all who, in a gesture of courage and democratic citizenship, fight for the common good...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u180	...and are not afraid to defend what they believe in and who know it's fair. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you know some of these benches look at the example of these citizens of good and, like them, always defend the common good against blind and sick ideologies and established interests. The exemplary behaviour of these petitioners, Mr. Members, this is what the PS calls « republican ethics» in recent days, but which unfortunately does not apply in its practice and political action. A simple example is the socialist blindness, which irresponsibly continues to suck down all the proposals of the Arrival and to give a hand to the interests installed in this system. As the people say, and as it has already been quoted today, « Well preach Brother Thomas, do what he says, do not do what he does. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal today has, according to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), almost 2, 5 million people aged 65 or over, having this number increasing as a result of the demographic winter caused by socialist policies. In the last 10 years alone, there has been an increase of more than 20 % in the number of elderly people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that more than 88% of our elderly are at risk of poverty? And what about 1, 7 million elderly receive, pension, less than a minimum order?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u183	It is repugnant to see this majority accept that an elderly person can live with a reform of €278 while we see TAP friends being fired with compensation of hundreds of thousands of euros or hiring a CEO (executive chief officer) for health to earn millions and to close obstetric emergencies. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Unfortunately, successive governments have systematically come to abandon our elderly. The reality that lives in Odivelas — and I know well — is not an isolated case. It is revolting to find hundreds of situations similar to that brought by petitioners today. in this House, in the previous Parliament, by the voice of Mr. André Ventura, and also in the present day, we presented proposals that the majority rejected. Do you want examples? The updating of pensions, which, in the first step, would equate the minimum pension to the value of the IAS (indicating social support) and in which, at the end of this legislation, no elderly person would have pensions below the minimum order. Reprobate! The check-and-check for monthlyity in private homes where there is no timely response in the public solidarity network. Reprobate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u184	You don't even know! You've lost!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u185	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u186	More respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u187	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u188	Enlargement programme... [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]] Programme to extend the national solidarity network of elderly households, giving priority to areas where there is a need, such as Odivelas. Reprobate! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Deserving allowance for informal caregivers. Reprobate! Support programme for families to monitor their grandparents. Reprobate! All these projects were rejected by Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we know — and you too — that, sooner or later, these proposals will be approved when they are copied by the totalitarian forces and voted again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u190	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u191	As they have done, for example, by extending the freeness of day care facilities to private establishments, which we have presented and which management has led.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u192	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u193	I will finish, Madam President. The red lines, that the gentlemen. Members — in an anti-democratic attitude in republican ethics — all they are calling for, it is not the arriving and their Members who apply them, it is the Portuguese and the future of this country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u194	What did you bring? I didn't bring anything! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u195	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves and CH counterprotests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for setting up conditions for the speaker to use the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the more than 4 000 petitioners 21 / XIV / 1a, who, in the exercise of their right to citizenship, brought to the discussion the construction of a public senior residential structure in Odivelas. The subscribers of this petition claim that a right that has been taken from them is being restored. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is sensitive and accompanies the concerns brought by the petitioners for the replacement of a residential response which has been closed. « A retreat», as the Socialist Party Member Miguel Cabrite said, here today in this hearing. The home of Odivelas was an integrated establishment in the Social Security Institute and was in operation in that municipality since 1975. It was closed, according to the official source of the Social Security Institute at the time, temporarily. Now, what, in October 2016, if temporary previews became definitive without, however, any answer was created. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking about a municipality with more than 160 000 inhabitants. The home of Odivelas, closed in 2016, was the only response for the elderly in this municipality and what concerns is the continuing lack of response. For our parliamentary group, it is important that people do not stay behind consecutively. It does not matter who is the holder of the reply, what matters is that this response is given by the State and that the State effectively guarantees this response to the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u198	In Odivelas, this answer does not exist and the one that existed, which was public, was closed—as mentioned during this debate—still without any expectation of openness. The lack of response is cross-sectional to this municipality and to the large Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, but it is also cross-sectional across the country. In many cases, due to lack of response, users are also hospitalized in homes, with damage to users and hospitals, which thus see a hospital bed occupied.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u200	... essential for the treatment of patients who are often on the waiting list for surgery, because this bed is being occupied by people who have no response in the social home network.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lack of strategic vision, inaction and inability of the government to predict and create solutions and answers are causing serious constraints, with a tendency to worsen – says the PSD, but also says the social sector. Still this week, in an interview with the Newspaper, Prof. Manuel Lemos said, and I quote: "Aging in Portugal is a true tsunami and it is worrying that the State does not seem to be at least concerned about it. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the European Union's country that is getting older faster and, as social sector agents regret, the increase in the supply of housing is not enough for the increase in demand for housing vacancies. The long waiting lists, for years, to reach an in-house vacancy shared by the State, are a despair for the families they need. This inaction of social security and government is leaving people behind. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the population of Odivelas remains unalternative. The State is not able to create that answer, but it has to guarantee that answer. So once again, the state is failing people. It is failing because, again, what was temporary has become definitive, with damage to people, to users; it is failing because it has not been able to create answers; and it is failing because, even if it was announced today by the Socialist Party, that construction would take time to reach people. What is required is that what we often announce in this Parliament — we announce the approval of projects, but until these projects can be carried out in the field people continue to stay behind. The PSD will be here to demand that, Mr. The PSD will monitor the progress of these projects and see if these solutions will actually advance on the ground. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that the PSD will enable the initiatives under consideration and is available to build a solution that responds to the situation in order to respond to people. For the PSD, no matter who is the holder of this reply, but it matters, yes, whether it is the State to guarantee that same answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u203	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u204	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the petitioners and petitioners, who bring a subject on which one can understand that what happened to the population of Odivelas is the domain of inexplicable. They had a home, which was closed in 2016, and, in preparation for this debate, we obtained a reply from the Ombudsman of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon — to whom these homes were transferred, under a 2011 diploma — that says nothing and does not allow us to understand, exactly, because the home was closed. Although the priority should now be to serve the population, it is still necessary to have this answer, which the guardianship cannot explain either. What we have, on the part of the Minister of Labour, is a non-response to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, of the Assembly of the Republic, and makes sense, still and always, to ask for explanations about this process. What makes sense, of course, looking forward, is to attend and follow with all care this situation in Odivelas. from the Free side, they also have the support and commitment to carry out this follow-up, not only because this problem is Odivelas, but because it is much broader than Odivelas. This is also an opportunity to talk about the society we want to build, a society in which there is a public network of assisted residences and public homes and in which there is a much greater investment in creating other forms of follow-up for our former citizens, which also provides support in their own homes, and, of course, a much greater investment in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u206	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u207	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the role of the State to ensure the support of the family and the protection of the elderly, of the elders. The petition expressly refers to this aspect and, until we see — we know that many want to introduce amendments to the Constitution, exactly, to reduce social rights — is indeed the function of the State to ensure social responses. Pensions in Portugal have an average of less than 500 € per month. We all know the prices—it has already been mentioned here—which are practised by the private home network and we know the enormous pressure that exists due to lack of response. All those who have spoken here, of all parliamentary groups, welcome the initiative. However, only two parliamentary groups were willing to present and translate into a draft resolution, on a concrete proposal, those that are their aspirations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u208	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u209	That's not true! They refused to drag...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u210	Well, then—after they welcome the initiative and recognize the need—the least to do is actually approve the projects on the table. And we've heard a number of arguments. The first was that what matters is not to be public or private, but that there is a response—we heard the Liberal Initiative saying that it is even a prejudice to demand a public response. It happens that we, here, only the government, can force us to build a home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u212	In fact, the need to be assured by the private sector was put in place and no one came forward. The fact is that there is no answer from the private! So what we have to do is ensure an answer. We cannot say, as you say, for example, that in the absence of answers the private will ensure. So let's create the answers! We have a chance here to create them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u213	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u214	Mrs. Members, whether there is will or there is no will and therefore this must be defined here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u215	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u216	In conclusion, Madam President, in apologizing for the extension of the intervention, the question is that, regardless of the site — and this must of course be seen with the Authority, with the projects under development — between 1975 and 2016 there was a public home for public supply and social security. It doesn't exist today. Is this the mark that the Socialist Party wants to leave, in Odivelas County, for the elderly population? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u217	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Cabrita of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to reply to Mrs Helga Correia from the PSD bench, whom I thank for the comments. You spoke a lot nationally, less than Odivelas, what you understand... You won't know the territory so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u219	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u220	No, sir, I was distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u221	As you said little, I said inaccuracies, so to speak. The home was in fact closed in 2016, and one of the reasons was because it had no interventions, which would have been necessary in previous years. They weren't done when they should have been done! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It was a temporary closure and, indeed, it will now be made available to the population within the framework of the PRR. [[PSD Member Protest Helga Correia.]] You will not have heard what I said, but there is a PRR candidacy to ensure that, in this space, there will be a new residential structure for the elderly, within the framework of the PRR. That's the answer I have to give you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor is it true that it was the only answer in Odivelas. There were more than 200 vacancies in Odivelas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u222	Private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u223	It's out of reality, completely!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u224	... that will now be reinforced for almost 300. It is an increase of almost 50 %, the greatest ever reinforcement in the city of Odivelas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At national level, it is also better not to speak because, as you know, cooperation agreements within the framework of social security are at most historic. The cooperation agreement has been revised, the funds have increased more than 40% since 2015... [[PSD Member Protest Helga Correia.]] ... and, therefore, it is better not to have this debate now because it does not favor the work of the PSD ; on the contrary, it speaks well of the priority that the PS has attributed to this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I want to tell Mrs Alma Rivera that it is true that the PCP and the Left Block presented here draft resolutions, but fortunately the PS does not have to present draft resolutions. The PS can speak for the projects and responses that are under way, are approved, will exist and will allow a strengthening of the network and vacancies in Odivelas, at home of Odivelas, in Families, with the support of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u225	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Helga Correia, what happened from 2011 when the PSD was in power was very serious and not only in Odivelas. It happened in the home of Odivelas, as happened, for example, in the home of the Fontainhas, in Porto, where 200 people were distributed by vacancies of mercy while the social security itself caught up in the building, which was yours and where there was a home, and sold it to be a hotel. This is what happened all over the country. What happened was a process of dismantling the few public management equipment that existed; the extinction of responses, as happened in Odivelas, but not only in Odivelas ; the transfer of users that existed for vacancies in the non-profit private sector; and the sale of public social security assets. Currently, Mr. Miguel Cabrita, what we know is that, even with the money that exists in the PRR, there can be no public provision of social responses and there can not even be a partnership between the central State and the authorities for the provision of social responses, because there is a monopoly of the non-profit private sector. Therefore, we appeal, yes, to the draft resolution of the Left Block, because in order to have access to care for elderly people there is a need for places, there are gaps, that there are answers and that there are answers with a reasonable cost. That is why we need to change a paradigm with regard to social care and to do the same as democracy was able to do with health care, i.e. create a universal service throughout the territory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u227	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u228	... of free access and which is considered a right, carried out by the State. That's the step, that's the transformation we need to make. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u229	In time given by the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Helga Correia of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u230	PSD gives time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u231	Mr President, Mr. José Moura Soeiro, it is regrettable that, after several years of accompanying the Socialist Party and the Government, through management, it will attack the Democratic Social Party in a situation that could have been resolved during these six years. [[PSD applause.]] It is regrettable that he is attacking the PSD when he should be attacking the Socialist Party bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u232	You are the ones who have closed the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u233	This is the first note. I leave a second note, Mr. Miguel Cabrita, about what is at stake, because we are not talking about the whole country. In my speech, I spoke about Odivelas and the country, but what is at stake is the answer in Odivelas. What's an ad and we're here to monitor and check if that ad, which you just did, will actually be born on the ground and respond to the people of Odivelas. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u234	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to announce to the House that today we have a special visitor. In Tribuna B, accompanied by our President of the Assembly, is Mr. former President of the Republic of Cape Verde Pedro Pires, accompanied by Mr. Ambassador of Cape Verde in Lisbon, Eurico Monteiro, to whom I address a greeting on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mr. Former President met in the Assembly of the Republic because he came to attend the colloquium « Amílcar Cabral and the History of the Future », which is taking place in the Auditorium Antonio Almeida Santos. As I said, when I was interrupted by the palms—very welcome and worthy—of the House, I am speaking on behalf of the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, a very special greeting, very warm and very friendly to Mr. ex-President Pedro Pires. Continuing our work, we moved to point four, with the discussion of Petition No 62 / XIV / 1. a ( Portuguese Association of Musictherapy ) — Recognition of the profession of music therapist in Portugal. I greet the subscribers of this petition, who are in the galleries, and I give the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the Portuguese Association of Musictherapy and the petitioners, who wish, with all legitimacy, to see the profession of recognized and regulated music therapist. It is the science itself that tells us that music has an impact on emotions, behavior and even on the health of each one. Whether played or heard, various brain areas responsible for motor activity, memory, language and feeling are stimulated by music and thus it is possible to use music therapy to help people with social, cognitive and emotional difficulties. If there is a practice based on scientific evidence and with this kind of impact, it makes no sense that these professionals, with specialized training, do not have the recognition due and do not see their profession regulated and accessible. The petitioners give us the example of several countries that have implemented a certification system with the issue of professional license for musicians, such as the United Kingdom, Norway, Austria and the United States. Portugal should follow these good examples and leave some conservatism aside. Madam President, this is the last item on the agenda and also my last speech at today's sitting, I would just like to welcome and congratulate my own party, which has been doing 12 years today, thanking all of us and all those who have supported and contributed to this journey, including our colleagues in the Assembly of the Republic — it has been a pleasure and a privilege to serve the public cause and to accompany the debates and parliamentary work — and, locally, to all of our elected members. [[Congratulations from PS Members, PS Member Isabel Meireles and L Rui Tavares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u236	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u237	Ex. Mrs. President, Mr. Members: « Music expresses what cannot be said in words, but cannot remain silent. » This phrase, of such great and sublime meaning, is the author of one of the greatest thinkers and humanists of all time, Victor Hugo, author of great literary works such as The Miserables. This work was performed more than 100 years later, by Schönberg, and became one of the best musicals ever, with retumbante musical success, still on stage today. Everything takes place in an era of fratricidal revolution, in which the cruelest human nature and the black side of life is shown in a raw way. But it also shows the strength of the gesture of love and forgiveness of Bishop Myriel, who changed the life of Jean Valjean forever. Conjugating the lyrics with musical harmony shows that the strength of love can change and everything can transform. It shows that love is the most perfect human expression of beauty. Music is the universal language that can always build bridges, destroy walls, reach the most distant peripheries, but also to the nearest peripheries, or even to the internal ones, that cause us the greatest pains. Music presents us, symbolically, our fears, our traumas, ghosts, anxieties and sorrows. On the other hand, music also drives our dreams and seems to give wings to life projects, so that they fly. It is this strength and wealth that petitioners want to see made available and free access to all Portuguese. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: The recognition of the profession of music therapist is for this reason of the greatest justice. To deny or hinder this claim is, first of all, to deprive thousands of Portuguese of help that will enable them to face the difficulties and problems that we often fail to solve here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u239	Helping to find meaning and meaning through music is the way that can minimize suffering and that we should all support, suffering that is often considered unbearable and for which music therapy may have an answer. You may even have a response to the great human suffering that is the fear of being alone — this fear that often leads to the loss of life, to the loss of human existence — a suffering from which we all want to escape. Music therapy certainly relieves chronic pain, is important in the management of post-traumatic stress, in the rehabilitation of motricity, palliative care, in transversal emotional support and has a very positive role in the delay in the development of diseases such as Alzheimer and Parkinson. How important it is that music is close and available to the service in risk situations! Therefore, it is important to focus a substantial portion of scientific investment on music therapy to strengthen the results in the community, demonstrating how art, looking at the beautiful, can serve the whole society. Arrival is available to help in the recognition of the profession of music therapist. Finally, we regret that the petitioners had been in this House to be heard in the Commission on 1 July 2020, and that the two requests for information sent to the Ministers had not yet been answered. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u240	We regret the defination of the government in this and many other situations that all common Portuguese know well, because they are victims of a fat, corporate state, which only agile in the taxpayer's asphyxiation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal needs society to mobilize, following the example of these thousands of petitioners, to defend the common good and the future of our country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the petition concerning the recognition of the profession of music therapist in Portugal, I would like, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to congratulate the Portuguese Association of Musictherapy here present as the first petitioner, as well as all 4373 subscribers and subscribers of this petition. Secondly, I would like to leave a word of appreciation and consideration for all the professionals of music therapy, for the very important work they develop and for the effort they make for the real effectiveness of this profession in our country, and consequently to congratulate the Portuguese Association of Musictherapy for the commitment and work in favor of music therapy in Portugal. Thirdly, with regard to requests from the petition, I must say the following: in accordance with the law, it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to regulate professions, i.e. to define specific requirements for access and the exercise of professions and, nevertheless, to authorize the Government to legislate this matter. However, in view of the existing legislation as well as Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958, this regulation should be based on reasons of public policy, public safety or public health, or on imperative reasons of public interest or inherent in people's own capacity, and respect the principle of excessive prohibition. On the other hand, this regulation should be preceded by a previous study evaluating the proportionality of the restrictions that are intended to be defined and implemented, with numerous definitions that protect professionals, patients and all persons who may benefit from music therapy in this case. Fourthly, I wanted to say that, although the profession of music therapist does not integrate the Portuguese Classification of Professions, within the framework of the International Standard Classification of Occupations 2008 integrates the group of other health professionals, such as art therapist, being listed in this list of professions. Fifthly, according to the Portuguese Music Therapy Association, these professionals can perform their work within health institutions — including rehabilitation — of social solidarity, educational solidarity and still in prison facilities. However, it is apparent that the petitioners' request refers, above all, to a definition of an autonomous professional status that benefits from the same treatment as other professional activities under the IRS Code (tax on income of natural persons) and the VAT Code (tax on value added) with a view to access to tax benefits as well as for professional career purposes. In sixth place, I wanted to say that access to the profession of music therapist in Portugal is currently carried out through the level seven of the National Qualifications Framework, in the Higher Course of Masters of Musictherapy, with the duration of two years, which is taught by the University of Lusíada, having therefore space and need for initial training at the level of the degree, which would increase the knowledge and real need of this profession in Portugal. Seventh contribution: in Europe, and paying attention to the information contained in the European database of regulated professions, this profession is only regulated—still! — in Austria and the United Kingdom. However, the European Music Therapy Confederation has done a remarkable job and shows evidence of the impact of this profession on several European countries, such as Denmark, where the music therapy professional has a good job stability. On the other hand, the World Music Therapy Federation has also done a very important work, since it has a database at international level that leads us to understand the countries that already have this regulated profession, as well as scientific articles that demonstrate the benefits of this therapy, especially in the most complicated cases of health—and I stress the work of palliative care—but also in the most difficult times, such as in the education of autistic children or in the monitoring of active aging. It could be here all morning witnessing cases in which, in a multidisciplinary perspective and therapeutic complement, music therapy is fundamental to people's health and well-being, from prenatal to the last moment of our lives. I conclude by saying that the Socialist Party is aware that music therapy is important and complements the therapy of health, education and social well-being, but it will still be necessary to make a way in this area and in the regulation of the profession of music therapist. However, I wanted to say that the Socialist Party has always supported the social economy and the care economy, so it is paying attention to the new emerging professions in difficult times that we go through and that they are a challenge for the paradigm change, an opportunity for the employability of young people and in which the economic interest is focused on the health, well-being and happiness of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u243	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Portuguese Association of Musictherapy, which carried out this petition which has been requested by the Assembly of the Republic for the recognition of the profession of music therapist in Portugal. In fact, it is more than 4300 signatures, which shows the size and importance of this therapy, its effects and its benefits. in this sense, we recognize the gains, in the clinical context, in the educational context, in the social context, which can have the use of this therapy, which, of course, can often power other therapies. Especially in the clinical case, it enhances conventional medicine and treatments that are under way. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to reflect on what therapies can be. In fact, there is an immense list of more or less complex therapies, such as apitherapy, chromotherapy, aromatherapy, reflex therapy, clay therapy. Finally, there is a huge list of therapies and they will certainly all have specific benefits when used in appropriate situations; all of them will have their own techniques in their application; and all of them will have greater or smaller complexities, which will require different regulations, and it is important. in this sense, it is important to ensure what is elementary: that it is possible to access these therapies, practiced by professionals, with quality and in safety. In fact, we can raise some questions, which, in fact, the petitioners themselves already raise when they question whether a physiotherapist, a doctor, a psychologist or a nurse can perform and practice music therapy. The first question is whether these professionals can be considered professionals if they do not have their training completed, as is recommended in the precepts of their training. Of course, they cannot exercise this profession unless they have the same training. likewise, if they have to use this therapy, these professionals should have the knowledge, be prepared and have the skills to do it. This is a finding and, in this sense, we believe that it is important and relevant — even by the principle of ensuring that users have access to professionals and quality care in safety — that there is indeed a regulation and that a response to these petitioners is given. We understand, taking into account the size of other therapies that exist, that the representative structures of these professionals — the associations that represent them — are those who are better able to defend them and to negotiate the characteristics of their professions and their therapies. in this sense, it seems to us that it is important that a public institution be set up, in particular through a public body, to regulate this therapy, but also all other therapies,... [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u245	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u246	... by means of a negotiation between those who represent these therapists and who, in fact, can regulate. And, we believe, the Assembly of the Republic can delegate that same competence to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u247	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u248	in this sense, there is this suggestion of the PCP regarding the path that should be followed by petitioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u249	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are currently discussing the regulation of music therapy and, in this sense, I comply with the Portuguese Association of Musictherapy, which is here and has sent us a petition with more than 4000 signatures. This issue of recognition and regulation of professions is ancient, complex and constant, because, as we all realize, a changing society also has changing professional activities, as well as professionals who demand a response to regulation and recognition of their professions. This is an issue that interests music therapists, as well as psychomotorists or sociocultural animators, and that we have constantly been accompanying. What happens, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the Socialist Party, is that today it is not possible for the Assembly of the Republic to help try to propose a solution to this problem of lack of regulation because there is a law, published at the beginning of 2021, in the previous legislature, which specifically says that the Assembly of the Republic, in order to be able to regulate professions, has to have a prior opinion of the DGERT (Employment and Labour Relations Directorate) and that protection must make an assessment of proportionality. We are talking about the assessment of proportionality: it makes sense in fact, it comes from a Community directive and what it tells us is that, in order to attribute barriers to professions, public, public health and public safety issues must be involved. Of course, this assessment of proportionality which involves restrictions on access to the profession must be assessed with a technical component that the Assembly of the Republic does not have or has to have. That is why, in the same law, it is said that there must be an opinion of the DGERT and that the guardianship must speak out. Not doing so, the Assembly of the Republic — nor the regional legislative assemblies, now — cannot take a decision on this matter. What happened was that Mr. Miguel Cabrita, at the time Secretary of State — who was still speaking here, so full of himself, of the great quality of socialist governance — came forward with this bill which was then approved, not by the compressor roll of the majority, but, in general, by the Socialist Party, by the ENP and the NAP. It is a piece of legislation that does not allow the Assembly of the Republic to regulate, as it did in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u251	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u252	today, we have already heard the Secretary of State for Labour say, within the Commission, that this is not with them, but with DGERT, who in turn says that it is not with them and that it is first with the guardianship. In fact, what happens is that no one responds to the thousands and thousands of Portuguese professionals who, in the various professions, need to see their work recognised — and deserve it! [[PSD applause.]] As we have already said in committee, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party is preparing a legislative initiative to correct a failure of the Government, a failure which the Socialist Party has rectified but which has not yet been able to admit that it has failed, as indeed is its political stamp. We also heard from the Socialist Party at the time in the discussion in 2021 that this was a legislative initiative that would make everything clear and transparent, but, in fact, what it did was not to respond. Why? Because it takes political courage to say what our position on each of our professions really is. And why? Because we do not legislate for voters, we legislate for Portuguese and if that means that there is an assessment of proportionality in the sense that it should not regulate, creating barriers, then it should do so. The Socialist Party had no courage and the government made a legislative trick. What we want, and what we will follow carefully, is to know what the Socialist Party will do when the PSD, once again, comes to correct this socialist tack. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u253	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u254	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is absolutely no doubt that music has a therapeutic potential, at different stages of life and for people with different conditions, from children with special needs to people with degenerative forum diseases. What this petition asks us is a series of very different things that must have different settings. It is different to be facing the request that the activity have a specific code in the IRS Code or that it has a specific code in the IRS Code as a clinical activity, which is something that already has a different seriousness; or that there is support for the creation of courses in higher education on music therapy, which in Portugal are managed autonomously by A3ES (Assessment and Accreditation Agency of Higher Education) and which have a whole process, in terms of scientific validation and an academic path to do, which is completely different. The Free, admitting, welcoming and valuing the role that music has in our lives and greeting the petitioners, respects these different processes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u256	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u257	... you think that they should have a framework and that they should be seriously considered in the field of specialty, by the committees, in the Assembly of the Republic, so that, in a petition asking for several things at the same time, they do not grant all these various things as if they all had the same legitimacy, whether in terms of professional activity that should have their framework,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u258	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u259	... either as clinical activity, or still as academic training. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u260	The last entry for this debate is Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, who now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first of all like to welcome the Portuguese Association of Music Therapy and also welcome the professionals who develop this practice which, as we know and here has already been said, can be so effective and so transformative in multiple contexts, not only in its clinical and health dimension, but also in social and community intervention. For the Left Block, it makes sense that there is a regulation of training, clinical practice, certification of skills for the exercise of music therapy, supervision mechanisms and professional development of those who perform this type of intervention. There are clear rules on each of these matters and a recognition of the profession is fair and relevant, without, of course, questioning our view, the freedom of access and exercise of the profession. We don't want any orders from the music therapists, for us it doesn't make any sense of something like that. We have a problem with the regulation of professions. The Left Block has already proposed, many times, the regulation of professions, but we are in the way of a problem, which has already been identified by Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, which is that of having the Law No 2 / 2021 on the regulation of professions, which provides that, in order for the Assembly to be able to legislate on the regulation of professions, there must be a prior study of proportionality. This law also says that who should do this previous study is the sectorial government area. What's the matter? It is that the sectorial government area does not make any previous study! We even had the Secretary of State of Labour in the House saying: "We only study the professions that we, government, want to regulate. Do not keep on seeking. ” And what do the parties say, especially the Socialist Party? They say that the Assembly of the Republic cannot do anything until the government does the study, and the government says it does no study, unless it itself wants to regulate a profession. This creates an impasse and absurdity from the point of view of the legislative process, a limitation of the Assembly of the Republic and a completely miserable interpretation by the Government of its role, because it does not clarify or assumes its responsibilities, nor does it allow other entities to conduct a study. The Secretary of State has come to say to the Left Block « make you the previous study of proportionality», a study, I repeat, that the law claims to be the jurisdiction of the sector's government area. This is unsustainable, this can't be! Therefore, what we understand is that this definition of competence needs to be resolved and that, on music therapy, there should be a clear definition of rules on training, certification, supervision and professional development. The Member of the PSD also said that political courage is needed to take the position on each of the professions, even because this discussion also has a technical dimension. What we don't know is the PSD's position on this profession. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u262	To speak, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u263	Mr President, Mr. José Moura Soeiro, is so anxious to try to confront the PSD with something that you have not listened to. We also said, from the outset, that we agree with the previous assessment of proportionality. This is not a joke, it is necessary to understand what the impact is on whether or not the barriers of free access to the profession are justified. In fact, the honourable Member also said that he did not want to create unjustified barriers. Now, if so, and since he also said that the Assembly of the Republic has no technical competence to make such an assessment and that it must be an opinion of the DGERT, as the law commands — but it does not send it wrong — then he cannot ask the PSD to pronounce himself on something he does not know, from the earliest assessment of the proportionality that the Government has not done and the opinion that the DGERT has not issued. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u264	No further requests for intervention at this item on the agenda have been made to the Bureau and we shall therefore proceed to the vote. I request the services to operate the presence verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD, and Mr Pedro Cegonho of the PS, failed to register. As a matter of fact, all the present are recorded. We have quorum, so we will start the votes. I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the Vote Project No 228 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of Antonio Cartexo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last January 5, at 88 years of age, António Cartaxo, radioist, professor, communicator, undisturbed figure of radio and musical disclosure. Having entered the BBC at the stage when the British public radio resumes emissions to Portugal, it is particularly pleased to hear about the situation in Portugal with the dictatorship, the BBC from which it was distanced together with Jorge Peixoto, already after April 25, 1974, accused of presenting a left view. On his return to Portugal, António Cartaxo entered the Portuguese public radio, where he worked for 40 years and where he became known for the relevant work developed in the defense and promotion of « grand music», as he liked to characterize the scholarly music. A man of culture, with multifaceted activity, was a university professor, author of important works and musicologist. It was as a broadcaster and director who became known to the Portuguese, through programs of their authorship, such as the History of Music or Great Music, among others. António Cartaxo was also part of the foundation of the local radio Telefonia de Lisboa, a project of progressive social communication in the late 1980s, directed by Ruben de Carvalho, where from the end of 1986 Cartaxo produced an innovative program on symphonic music, which, in a educational, intelligent and fun form, explained to social and political movements the relationship of popular and revolutionary struggles, with various musical compositions, the influence of traditional and popular music in so-called classical music and the interaction of the personal biographies of composers with the protagonists of the economic and political power of their eras. Despite the quality and recognition of the work developed throughout his working life, he was a man who was characterized by the humility he spoke about himself and his work. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Antonio Cartaxo and expresses its condolences to its relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u266	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I invite all to associate themselves with a minute of silence in honour of Antony Carthage. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 230 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the PS, the PCP, the IL, the BE, the L and the NAP ) — Condemnation for the invasion and vandalization of the seats of the legislative, executive and judicial powers in the Federal Republic of Brazil. The Parliamentary Group of the Arrival requested an intervention on this draft vote in accordance with Article 75. the Rules of Procedure, and this makes its reading indispensable. I will open up a period of no more than 2 minutes for each parliamentary group that wants to be able to intervene. Mr Ventura, from the Czech Republic, signed up to make an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival wanted to start by making it clear that it fully understands the rage and anguish of millions of Brazilians, when they see their country governed — and I apologize to the Brazilian authorities accredited in Portugal — by a bandit, who... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u268	Mr, this is an offensive expression in relation to the president of a very friendly country in Portugal. Therefore, under the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to ask you not to use this expression referring to the President of the Republic of Brazil or any other Republic. Please proceed, and this is the request I make to you. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP Alfredo Maia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u269	Mr President, I understand that perfectly and that is why I made this introduction. It is difficult to address the President of Brazil in another way... [[PS protests, having MPs punched their hands in the tops of the benches.]] ...and therefore I understand the indignation of millions of Brazilians. What happened in Brasilia, in the last few days, in the last few weeks... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u270	Mrs. Members, Mr Ventura is speaking in the same way as I asked him not to use expressions falling under the scope of Article 89. The Rules of Procedure, I ask all other Members to do the same. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u271	The arrival perfectly understands why Brazilians are outraged, camped in many parts of the country, with their country stopped and handed over to whom we all know, did what they did to Brazil in recent years and just... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u272	Shut up, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u273	... — writes on Twitter, then Porfirio! — he was able to do what he did because he had friends who allowed him, or he allowed them not to face what they had to face properly. Therefore, our understanding also goes for those, at this moment are millions, who do not see each other, will not see each other and will fight much of what is happening in Brazil today and which, hopefully, does not extend to all Latin America. But our position was very clear and, therefore, we are the first parliamentary group to condemn the attack on institutions and the attack on violence,... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u274	... because we understand anger, anguish and anger, but at the same time, we know that democracy is the way to fight those who, in our perspective, have totally immorally taken care of the Brazilian institutions. And I did not want to let this moment pass, Mr President, without regreting that, as the maximum leader of this House of Democracy, I have never cast a vote against the violence of the extreme left that strikes Peru in the days in which we are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u276	... where more than 40 people have already died because of the extreme left and the socialist and communist forces in the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But on this, not a word from this Parliament to condemn the violent attack on Peru's institutions by far-left groups. “ Why? », we ask. Not a word about communist violence in Colombia, about the violence of FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ) drug traffickers, who continue to attack Colombian institutions. Why? Not a word about violence spread in Latin America, with communist, socialist and armed groups, against the institutions. And this House has never moved a vote, a vote from Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u277	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u278	...to ensure that it was done equally. But something happens in Brasilia, something happens in the United States, and we are the first to come here to condemn.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u279	Anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u280	Yes, Mr. Deputies, it is that in Brazil, up to now, 40 people have not died, as has already happened in Peru, and not a vote of this House to condemn violence in Peru. [[Crocodile tears!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u281	This is called ideological blindness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u282	The vote we are voting today is not a defense of the institutions, it is a political, ideological vote against those in which you do not believe. That's what happens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] I will finish, Mr President, but I was interrupted for two minutes practically followed. The condemnation of violence will always be, and it will always be, on our side, clear and unequivocal. We condemn all attacks on the institutions, but we will never cease to point out to this House that it is unable to condemn the violence of the extreme left, because you think it depends on it to be able to govern. And that's very ugly, it's total ideological complexity and blindness. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u283	They're always against democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u284	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves is now inscribed on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have two minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, in the year in which we mark the bicentennial of Portuguese constitutionalism and the bicentennial of the independence of Brazil, we thank you for presenting this vote, which redigns the way in which the Portuguese Republic views its allies, its friends and democratic institutions. And it is with a firm voice that we condemn what happened in Brazil. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The intervention that preceded me thinks he takes us all for fools, thinks he takes us all for strangers of what is reality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u286	Socrates friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u287	... by saying that it understands the reasons for those who climb the ramp of the Planalto Palace to invade Brazilian institutions, ignoring the rule of law, ignoring the result of the elections, ignoring the way in democracy solves the differences and dilemmas that democracies face, bearing in mind that this factor is not what instigates this movement, that these words are not what mobilizes people against democracy. It's taking us for fools and it's hypocritical how you do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u288	The corruption is that it mobilizes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u289	In the use of the word in this Chamber, he intentionally ignores the Brazilian rule of law, which is the one who pronounces himself on whom he is accused or is not accused of the practice of a crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u290	Corruption! Lava Jato!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u291	And it is the Brazilian State, it is the institutions of the Federal Republic of Brazil and its judiciary that recognize the manipulation of judicial proceedings and that determine who is serving sentences and who is innocent, it is certainly not Mr André Ventura! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And he says more: "How does a person stop doing what he did to Brazil? In fact, that is the question: how does one who has overcome hunger tolerate? How does someone who has taken hundreds of thousands of black people who have never had the chance to approach a university, to have a higher education? Who guarantees the dignity of the hundreds of thousands of domestic workers who did not have a contract of employment and did not have any guarantee of the dignity of their activity? [[Congratulations from the PS and the MEP of BE Catarina Martins.]] at the same time, he does not ask the question, about what the former President of Brazil did, who for four years devalued the democratic and parliamentary institutions of the Federal Republic of Brazil, who clearly threatened, when not expressly, the judiciary, whose son said that a cable and a sergeant are sufficient to close the Supreme Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u292	Is that Lula? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u293	Now, what has been demonstrated, what the robustness of the Brazilian institutions has shown is that a cable and a soldier does not arrive, not even a mob of barbarians, to close the Supreme Federal Court, because Brazilian democracy has resisted. And that's what this House is going to do today, right now: it's going to greet the resistance of Brazilian democracy, it's going to greet the Brazilian institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u294	The plane to Brazil is at 4 hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u295	... and it will, above all, refuse those who, with their complicity silence, for years instigate those who were absent when all the attacks on Brazilian democracy and the democracies of other States of the world, who no longer succeed, at such a moment, than seek to relativize, excuse and arrange some form of their political allies do not arise wrong in photography. Well, that's impossible. It is with pride that this House, this Portuguese Republic, sister of the Federal Republic of Brazil, condemns what has happened and welcomes the survival of democracy in Brazil. [[Applause from PS and L (standing) and BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u296	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the time of the vote. There is no intervention but on the vote and the parts should be restricted to the maximum. No Member, no Member is obliged to be here to listen to others, but, being there, you have to respect them. Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá, you now have the floor to speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About 200 years ago, the United States gave the world one of the most important developments in civilization. For the first time in the 1800 elections we saw a peaceful transition of power, when the Federalist Party of President John Adams peacefully transferred power to the Democratic-Republican Party of Thomas Jefferson. In the events of Brazil, what is at stake is, above all, the defense of this principle of peaceful transition of power, which is the heart of democracy, as we understand it today. [[PSD applause.]] Today, democracies are threatened in various ways by authoritarian and nationalist regimes, by populist and liberal movements. Externally, authoritarian countries, such as Russia, call into question, in increasingly insidious ways, our ways of life. Internally, extremists call into question democracy and freedom. Democrats from all over the globe are today called to defend our free and democratic way of life. We have to be soldiers in defense of everything we believe in, which has cost us so much to achieve. Therefore, we strongly condemn events in Brazil and solidarity with Brazilian democratic institutions. [[PSD and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u298	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is a bad conscience that brings us here to this debate, a bad conscience on the part of the coming party, who supported Bolsonaro, as Trump supported,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u300	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u301	What's the matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u302	... that said Bolsonarist, and that therefore cannot unequivocally condemn the invasion of democratic powers in Brazil.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u303	We damned it vehemently!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u304	Brazil crossed one of the most violent military dictatorships of the 20th century. It is therefore a pain and tragedy to see those Bolsonarists, those extremists who have invaded the Palace of the Planet recently, bring the original version of the 1988 Constitution, in a symbol of deep disrespect for democracy and attack on democratic constitutional institutions. The truth is the script was written. The script that was followed by the Bolsonarist militants in the invasion of democratic institutions in Brasília, in the Planalto, was the script followed by the Trumpist militants when they invaded the Capitol.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u305	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u306	And the activists of the PT (Workers' Party)?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u307	Both for one reason: because they did not recognize when their candidates — the candidates supported by the Arrival — lost in the polls.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u308	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u309	The reasons that André Ventura here says recognize those protesters, in fact, is only one: not recognizing the results of the electoral dispute, not recognizing that Jair Bolsonaro has lost and that Lula da Silva is the democratically elected president of Brazil.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u310	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u311	But he's a corrupt president!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u312	These are the reasons that André Ventura says he does not understand. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] So let us not allow ourselves to be led by the attempt to mask this evil conscience. We know that extreme right, or win in the polls, or try to go there for violence. [[CH protests.]] We know that the speech of hatred was Bolsonaro's speech, which the extreme right in Portugal supported, we well know who they are and who their candidates were.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u313	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u314	Therefore, in reverse this inability to condemn the attempt to invade democratic institutions, this attempt of coup d'état, which must be punished in an exemplary manner, is the greeting to a democratically elected regime, to the democratic resistance of the institutions in Brazil, and it is also one thing to remember: in Brazil, yes, there have already been many deaths and many victims of political violence carried out by the followers of Jair Bolsonaro. There have already been many deaths due to political violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u315	What about Peru? It's in Colombia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u316	So I can't finish without asking that, finally, with the departure of Jair Bolsonaro, if you do justice to one of the most emblematic of these deaths, which is the death of Marielle Franco,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u317	Ah! ...killed, precisely, by being a left-wing militant. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u318	On behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative has a single desire for the democratic nation of Brazil, is that it achieves what is patent in its flag, which is order and progress, and this is done by respecting the sovereign and democratic will of the Brazilian people. And that is why, above all, we can only repudiate what happened in the Three Powers Square. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u320	To speak on behalf of the PAN, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who has 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The invasion we have witnessed in recent days in Brazil is a defining moment in history, not only for those who practice it, but above all for all for all the political forces that operate in different countries. What we saw in this plenary is no longer an exception. Those in the democratic spectrum can only have a position, which is that of repudiation and censorship to the destruction that was done in Brazil, values, not only historical, but also democratic, and the aggressions that we witness to people and even the animals of the security forces. The NAP is, and will be, alongside that which was a democratic decision of the Brazilian people, which has put an end to discrimination, which has brought even more inclusion within the government itself, with more women and representation of indigenous communities. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] There were many lives taken under Bolsonaro's aegis, the lives of those who died through the coward, the lives of the indigenous people who fought for their lands, and it will not be by force, whether by Bolsonaro, whether by Trump, in the United States, or by extreme-right movements, in Europe, that we will see the democratic regimes lying below. The parties of the forces of the democratic spectrum will remain vigilant and one thing is certain: you will not pass. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u322	Long live the FARC!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u323	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP strongly condemns the acts of coup in the federal power institutions in Brasília, against democracy in Brazil.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u325	And the acts of Russia, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u326	The most shocking and unacceptable act was what happened at the Three Powers Square in Brasilia, but it was not, at all, an isolated act, because it is indeed an assault on democracy that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u327	What about Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u328	The PCP urges that the facts be fully ascertained by the Brazilian authorities and the condemnation and punishment of those responsible for instigation, promotion and direct participation in reactionary couppist actions. It is vital that those who have conspired, and who now conspire, against democracy should not be unpunished.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u329	Is that a little?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u330	Denouncing and repudiating the fascist threats faced by Brazilian democracy, and recalling that these very serious acts are part of a process of a fascist nature, tolerated and normalized by some of those who now condemn it, the CFP calls for the continuation of the expression of solidarity for the struggle of the Brazilian people to defend democracy and its rights. Also in our country, there have been, and continue to be, many voices that have been raised in this solidarity action towards the Brazilian people in the fight for their democracy. The PCP reiterates its solidarity with President Luís Inácio Lula da Silva, the institutions of the Federal Republic of Brazil, PT, PCdoB ( Communist Party of Brazil ) and other democratic and progressive Brazilian forces, which engage in a more just, democratic and developed Brazil, which fulfils the aspirations of the Brazilian people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u331	What about the Ukrainian people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u332	As much as it costs the extreme-right hitters, it will be the Brazilian people, the peoples of the Americas and the world will be the protagonists and builders of history. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u333	The Bureau doesn't record any more entries, so... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u334	Mr Rui Tavares is asking for the floor. Do you also intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u335	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u336	For the table did not know, but our Lord God saw everything, and he must have seen it. You have the word for one minute. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u337	Mr President, I have signed up as Mr Duarte Pacheco may confirm.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u338	Everybody didn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Brazilian democracy and Portuguese democracy are sisters. Brazil welcomed, with open arms, many Portuguese Democrats, starting with General Humberto Delgado, whom we—we do not forget—an election victory was stolen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u340	That one, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u341	... and Portugal received, with open arms, many Brazilian Democrats after April 25, 1974. Some may not know, but there are Brazilian historical parties that were founded in Lisbon. Also the Portuguese and Brazilian republics were sisters, just as our liberalisms were brothers. What happens in Brasilia, the simultaneous invasion of the three powers, for whom he vandalized, robbed, departed, sucked and only killed, at that time, because he had already killed his political opponents before, cannot leave us indifferent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u342	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u343	But the best condemnation we can do to what happened in Brazil is to be careful, because what happened in Brazil happened - it happened in the Capitol, it happened in several other countries and it is happening, too, in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u344	You don't have time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u345	The so-called clear and unequivocal condemnation is, in fact, of the most darker and the most unequivocal misunderstanding there could be — condemnation on the one hand, but not condemning the other, speaks in two voices, with two languages. And he also speaks for those who in Portugal have already manifested themselves in front of the Constitutional Court and there he left a rope with a fork.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u346	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u347	We do not delude ourselves, only like democracy when it wins; when it loses, it steals elections, violent and invades democratic spaces. [[CH protests.]] The fact that he came here to make the statement clear and unequivocal, darker and more misleading than he is capable of, is proof that in Portugal he would do the same. Let us be careful, so that in Portugal it will not happen what happened in Brazil. [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u348	Is Mr. André Ventura calling for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u349	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u350	Mr President, you have the floor to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u351	Mr President, it is indeed an appeal to the Bureau, not to pretend that I will defend honor, as my colleagues in Parliament do. It is even for an inquiry to the Bureau, so that the lie does not continue to spread in this Portuguese House and in the public space. On the first night of the invasion — internal elections were taking place in the Czech Republic, and I myself, as President of the Party, condemned, unequivocally and without any margin, the attack on democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u352	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u353	How did you see it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u354	What we cannot admit, Mr President, and I address to you, therefore, is any comparison or insinuation that the third largest Portuguese party would do, in Portugal, whatever it is, because we respect the institutions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, as far as what I said at the outset, and which deserved Mr President's warning... [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] Let me just talk a little bit. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u355	What about democracy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u356	It looks like a flash!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u357	Mr President, in addressing you, in my request to the Bureau, I would like to say the following: Mr President warned me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure,... [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] ... and I want to make it clear that I accept this warning on your part, but I keep exactly what I said and am available for my immunity to be lifted, to answer in court for what I said here today, in this Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u358	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u359	Is it for an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u360	Yes, Mr. President. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u361	Mr. Deputies, it is your right. I would ask you to stick to the letter of the Rules of Procedure, because we cannot allow — indeed, I cannot — this House to be kidnapped by questions which are absolutely side by side on our agenda. So if you want to speak to the Bureau, do so to the Bureau and on the conduct of the work. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u362	Mr President, as you know, my appeals to the Bureau have always been in the form of an appeal to the Bureau, contrary to what we hear. [[CH protests.]] It's just that a serious charge was made here, and I know it was a serious charge, because I did it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u363	But what is the regimental figure?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u364	... and when we were expecting an explanation as to whether it was true or not that, in an institution representing constitutional sovereignty in Portugal, the Constitutional Court, in a demonstration organized by a Portuguese political party, was left a rope with a fork at the door of that institution... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u365	Sir, I'm so sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u366	Mr. President, let me just finish... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u367	Mr. Deputy, please shut up while I'm talking. I'm so sorry, but it's the least possible. I interrupt, Mr President, and then proceed, because otherwise this is unacceptable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u368	Mr President, your question is clearly not about the conduct of the work, and I cannot be here the intermediary of the recriminations that want to address each other. So everything is clarified, in a way that is absolutely stoned, and we are in a position to vote. We have a number of votes to make and, therefore, if you want to make an inquiry on the vote, do so, but only on the vote. For example: am I hurting when I vote? Do you want me to vote in another way? Please, tell me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u369	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, because Members need to see some stability and consistency in the interpretation of what are the regiment figures. However, the interpretation of them is much more restrictive for single Members than for parliamentary groups, which is not fair. [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u370	Mr President, we will deal with this issue at the Conference of Leaders, which is the place to deal with such matters as this. I'm asking for silence now, please. [[Pause.]] Let us now vote on the deliberative part of the Voting Project No 230 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the PS, the PCP, the IL, the BE, the L and the NAP ) — Condemnation for the invasion and vandalization of the seats of the legislative, executive and judicial powers in the Federal Republic of Brazil. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u371	How do you see it? Open... [[PS, PCP, BE and L protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u372	We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 400 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to lay down the indication of applicable collective labour regulation instrument, amending the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We then vote in general on Law No 401 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the counter-ordination by not holding three copies for the documentation of the carriage of goods. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and L were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the PAN, and abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote of Bill No 402 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to impose information on the right of parenthood legislation by amending the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes against CH and IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 404 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Elimination of the obligation of mere prior communication must be instructed with the urban title ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015, which, in use of the legislative authorisation granted by Law No 29 / 2014 of 19 May, approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of various trade, services and restoration activities and establishes the respective counter-ordering regime ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the CH.]] We continue, in general, with the vote on Bill No 406 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the obligation of artificial tanning centres to affix the diplomas or certificates of competence of technical personnel ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015, which, in use of the legislative authorisation granted by Law No 29 / 2014 of 19 May, approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of various trade, services and restoration activities and establishes the respective counter-ordering regime ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L, votes against the PSD and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 407 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Extends the requirement for the prior communication to the IPDJ of holiday fields ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 32 / 2011 of March 07, establishing the legal regime for the access and exercise of the activity of organization of holiday camps ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 408 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of the value of fines by economic counter-ordination and creation of very slight counter-ordination ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 9 / 2021 of 29 January ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 409 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to attach information on the existence of permanent jobs available in the undertaking or establishment, amending the Labour Code. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 410 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the obligation to explain « Call for national fixed network » and « Call for national mobile network » on telephone lines for consumer contact ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 59 / 2021 of 14 July ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD and the IL, against the CFP, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from PS, CH and BE.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 411 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Simplifies the procedure for renewing the driving licence ( seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 138 / 2012 of 5 July ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, PCP and BE.]] We then vote in general on Law No 403 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies the indication of tobacco consumption in closed enclosures for collective use ( fourth amendment to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August adopting rules for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to dependence and cessation of consumption ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN and the L were rejected, votes against the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the PCP and the BE.]] The general vote of Bill No. 425 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — eliminates the fine by the circumstances of the person holding or holding pet animals within 120 days of their birth ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 82 / 2019 of 27 June establishing the rules for the identification of pet animals, creating the pet information system ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes in favour of IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 426 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Elimination of the limitation to the value of the budget ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January, which, in use of the legislative authorisation granted by Law No 29 / 2014 of 19 May, approves the arrangements for access and pursuit of various trade, services and restoration activities and establishes the respective counter-ordering regime ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote of Bill No. 427 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Change the value of the fines applicable for counter-orders related to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ( the ninth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the Sanctionary Scheme applicable to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ). [[The vote was taken by votes to CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and PS, PS and PAN abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. [[Applause from the IL.]] You can't hit the ballots... Oh, you might as well. I'm sorry. [[Laughing.]] No one else wants to hit palms? [[Laughing.]] All right. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 432 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthen citizens' guarantees in the process of revalidation of driving letters, amending Decree-Law No 138/2012 of 5 July and the Road Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 433 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the right of parenthood by amending the Labour Code and the General Labour Law in Public Functions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No. 434 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Transparency mechanisms are established in respect of rates charged at the state level and local authorities, and ensures the independent technical assessment of counterparties associated with the collection of each of the rates existing at the state level. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against IL, BE, NAP and L and abstentions against the PSD and CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 435 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 9 / 2021 of 29 January ( Approves the Legal Regime of Economic Controls ), densifying the arrangements for the collection of evidence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 441 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — prohibits the activation or collection of unsolicited or authorized services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 442 / XV / 1. a (L) — Introduction of transparency and reliable information in price information. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 443 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Introducing measures to promote transparency in pre-contractual information on distance marketing of financial services. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS, the SDP and the IL.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission, at 6. the Commission agrees with this discharge. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 444 / XV / 1. a (L) — Strengthen the rights of consumers by ensuring the forced renewal of services or equipment whose useful life has not yet expired. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 445 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Ensures the accessibility of workers to legally required information on harassment at work, parental rights and the existence of permanent jobs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 446 / XV / 1. a (L) — Strengthen consumer rights, ensuring that consumers are not obliged to acquire more services or goods than those they need. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No. 449 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (BE) — establishes amnesty by default of payment of toll rates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We then vote in general on Law No 450 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter jurisdiction for the investigation of cases relating to non-payment of toll rates ( tenth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the Sanctionary Scheme applicable to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS Deputies Bruno Aragão, Carlos Brás, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Joana Sá Pereira, Pedro Anastácio and Susana Correia.]] We proceed to the vote, in general, on Bill No 235 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — basic food price scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We proceed with the vote of the application, submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 416 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to promote food donation and to combat food waste by amending Law No 62 / 2021 of 19 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We then vote on the application by the NAP, asking the Committee on Budgets and Finance to be discharged, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 417 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates tax incentives for food donation and combats food waste by amending the Statute for Tax Benefits and the IRC Code. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We move forward to the general vote of Bill No. 418 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Make it possible to apply Zero VAT to the purchase of essential food goods during the year 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, CH, PCP, BE and L.]] We now have to vote, in general, Bill No. 423 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — It creates mechanisms for intervention and pricing in essential food goods. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 436 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Exemption from VAT on essential foodstuffs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 140 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures public management of water supply and sanitation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] The vote on Bill No. 429 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public management of water and sanitation systems. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions from the CH and from the members of the PS Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira and Susana Correia.]] We proceed with the vote on the application, submitted by L, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Environment and Energy, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 440 / XV / 1. a (L) — Right to basic sanitation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. Then we vote on draft resolution No 320 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reversion of the process of transfer of competence to authorities in the area of education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] He informed the Bureau that he would make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u373	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u374	Mr Rui Tavares, who can't see enough to do something that doesn't work next, asked for the floor. [[Laughing.]] We can have some humor! Open... [[Pause.]] Can't we? So I withdraw what I said and I register that there is also a declaration of vote written by the Freeman. We now have to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of a new public residential structure for the elderly in Odivelas. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We then vote in general on Resolution No. 319 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By building a home of elderly public management in the Odivelas municipality. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u375	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u376	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u377	It is only to inform that I will deliver a written vote on my behalf and Mr Cabrita, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u378	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities on draft resolution No 290 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the teaching of Portuguese abroad in its different dimensions and intensify the use of digital technologies to make it more attractive, interactive and tailored to the profile of students. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities on draft resolution No 298 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By the condemnation of the World 2022 in Qatar. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u379	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Central Court of Aveiro — Judge 1, Case No 2638 / 16.5T8AVR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Mariana Mortágua ( BE ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u380	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 18 January, for 15 hours, having as the agenda set by the PSD the evaluation of Bill No 480 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Creates a national programme for attracting, welcoming and integrating immigrants and the Portuguese migration agency. I'm sorry for my mood, but I've been in control. Mr. Paulo Pisco, who is signaling the Bureau, will you intervene?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u381	No, Mr. President. It's just to ask for the registration of my presence because I couldn't do it in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u382	Mr President, it is not always so late in history.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u383	From time to time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-13.u384	It remains my wish for a good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 14 minutes.]]
