ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We are in a position to start our work, which starts with votes. Before that, however, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will read her file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. They entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, several initiatives: motion of censure No 2 / XV / 1. a ( IL) ; Bill Nos 418 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 453 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 454 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 455 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 456 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 457 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 458 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. Commission ; Draft Resolution Nos 334 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 335 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 336 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 337 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 338 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 339 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 340 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 341 / XV / 1. a, 342 / XV / 1. a and 343 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), down to 9. the Commission, 344 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 345 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 346 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, and 348 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ) ; Proposals for Law No 55 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission ; and Proposal for a Resolution No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. We shall now hold a number of votes, so I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to register and services to proceed with quorum verification. [[Pause.]] I'm checking that a number of Mrs. Members have not been able to register: Members of the Bernardo Blanco Liberal Initiative and Patrícia Gilvaz, Mr. PSD Members Francisco Pimentel and André Coelho Lima and Mr. Members of PS Luís Graça and Carla Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u4	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u5	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u6	Mr President, I'm trying to register, but I don't know if I'm still going in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u7	Your presence is registered. We shall then begin the voting, and we shall begin by voting on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u8	Mr President, I shall take note of the first opinion: « In accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ) and ( a ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). that of the Statute of Deputies, PS Member Alexandre Tiedtke Quintanilla ( electoral circle of Porto ) suspends the term with effect from 2 January 2023, including for a period not less than 30 days and until the limit of its justification, being replaced by Marlene Cristina Mendes Teixeira. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate indicated Marlene Cristina Mendes Teixeira is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, as presented in the list of votes in the electoral district of Porto. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u10	Mr President, I shall take note of the second opinion: « In accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5, point ( d ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). that of the Statute of Deputies, PS Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos ( electoral circle of Aveiro ) suspends the term with effect from 4 January 2023, including for a period of 30 days, being replaced by Rosa Maria Monteiro Venâncio. The term of office of elect Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos was already suspended since 29 March 2023, in accordance with Article 20 ( a ). Article 4 ( 1 ( c ) and ( c ). the, being a member of the XXIII Constitutional Government, having been replaced by the unelected candidate indicated Rosa Maria Monteiro Venâncio, who has temporarily taken up the mandate since then. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that elect Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos has ceased to be a member of the XXIII Constitutional Government, he has now applied for the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ) and ( d ). the, for a period of 30 days, during which it will continue to be replaced by the unelected candidate indicated Rosa Maria Monteiro Venâncio, for continuing to be this the following candidate who should temporarily assume the term in place, as presented the suffrage in the electoral circle of Aveiro. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u12	Mr President, I shall take note of the third opinion: « In accordance with Article 20 ( 1 ( a ). Article 4, point ( c ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies, PS Member Hugo Alexandre Polido Pires ( electoral circle of Braga ) suspends the term with effect from 4 January 2023, including being replaced by Diogo Rocha Cunha. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate mentioned Diogo Rocha Cunha is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, as presented in the list of votes in the Braga electoral circle. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u14	Mr President, I shall take note of the fourth opinion: « In accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5, point ( d ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies, PSD deputy Andreia Carina Machado da Silva Neto ( electoral circle of Porto ) suspends the mandate with effect from 9 January 2023, including for a period of 60 days, being replaced by Rosina Patrícia Ribeiro Pereira. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate indicated Rosina Patrícia Ribeiro Pereira is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, according to the list presented the suffrage in the electoral circle of Porto. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u15	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. João Paulo Rebelo is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u16	Mr. President, my apologies. I was trying to do it a few minutes ago, but unfortunately I couldn't register. So it's to make a note of my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u17	Be registered. Is Mr. Pedro Coimbra in the same condition?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u18	Yes, Mr. President, I can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u19	I wonder if any other Member or Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] With everyone registered, we will continue with the votes. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 348 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, PCP, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u20	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u22	Mr President, I would like to say that, with regard to this vote, we will make an oral statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u23	It will be done at the end of the voting period. [[Pause.]] In fact, perhaps to be more practical, the statement of vote may be made immediately, since we will still have two more votes to carry out. Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor to make the statement of vote. He's got two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Following the instructions left by His Holiness Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI, the Holy See decided to accept only, in the executions of the deceased Pope, the presence of official delegations of the German State and the Italian State. As far as we know from the social communication, it was attempted, through diplomatic means, that the Holy See opened an exception for the Portuguese State, claiming that in Portugal it would take the World Youth Day this year. As far as we know, even and through social communication, the Holy See will decide not to open this exception by reaffirming that, apart from the cases of Germany and Italy, official representations from any other country would not be taken into account, and that anyone who wanted to be present at the ceremonies there would be alone and only in representation of himself. This is the case, and because it was still mentioned by the President of the Republic who would return on the same day, the request for consent to this Parliament would not have been necessary. In fact, Articles 129 are invoked at the request of the Assembly of the Republic. the, point 1, and 163. point ( b) which apply to an official journey where in this case all points out that it will be an unofficial journey of no more than five days, and the applicable one is Article 129 (2). the, which does not require the request for consent of the Assembly of the Republic, but only that it is given prior notice. Therefore, and because in this case, on an unofficial journey, Mr. President of the Republic would only have to give prior notice to this House, he understands the Arrival which does not have to stand in favour of or against this trip, but only take knowledge of it. It is this mere knowledge that our abstention is intended to mean. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u25	We will now appreciate two resources on my decisions. The first appeal is submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival and concerns my non-acceptance of the complaint of that party concerning the final text of the decree commonly known as « decree of euthanasia », Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 23 / XV. To formulate the appeal, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u26	Ex. Mr. President: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Arrival submitted a complaint against inaccuracies contained in the certificate of death caused drug, wrongly referred to as 'assisted drug death'. You have decided to dismiss the complaint by office. contrary to what was erroneously decided by you, the complaint had, and it has, in full, a basis, because the text which you have approved here. Members have been illegally changed in the rooms of this Palace. You have decided to support all these illegal changes and, therefore, Mr President, we have now come to appeal to plenary. Mrs. Members, the amendments to the final text of this decree are unacceptable and are a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u27	The first amendment which violates what has been approved here is Article 3 ( 1 ). the, in the definition of what is considered to be drug-assisted death. The initial words for the purposes of this decree have been deleted. However, this elimination is not only contrary to legislative thinking as to the most basic rules of legislating, giving rise to doubts and legal uncertainties. Will this definition of death become universally regulated all national legislation? If so, a legal "Pandora" box will be opened. Let's not forget, sirs. Members, this decree amends the Criminal Code. The second substantive amendment is that of Articles 6. it's 8. the, where the word « maximum » has been deleted, for the time limit of the opinions of the doctor and the evaluation committee. However, an explicit maximum time limit for Parliament to expressly define the imperative limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u29	This amendment gives rise to more doubts, more uncertainty and more legal uncertainty. The third amendment, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the most serious of all and was made in Article 9 ( 2 ). the, from which the requirement of medical supervision was removed in the administration of euthanastant drugs made by health professionals. That is, suicide must have medical supervision, but on the contrary, death can be executed without medical supervision. Mrs. Members, these are the three most important amendments to the final text of this decree. There are more, but these are the ones that produce an organic unconstitutionality. This decree violates constitutional and regulatory standards of our legislative competence, because it does not correspond to the text of the overall final vote, and does not substantially correspond. If you too are the gentlemen. Members have chosen to ignore this fact, we will not fail to inform the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court of three points: first, there is an organic unconstitutionality here; second, in this process, democracy has been euthanized;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u31	...and, third, has already begun the sliding ramp of death in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u32	We shall proceed to the vote on the appeal which has just been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes in favour of the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u33	Proudly alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u34	The next appeal, by the authorship of the Liberal Initiative, concerns the setting of the agenda for today's sitting. Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor to make his presentation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u35	Mr President: The appeal we bring today for the vote in plenary is concerning a decision by Mr President on the fixing of the agenda for today's sitting. The decision which has taken by itself—because, while listening to the Conference of Leaders, this is the competence of the President of the Assembly of the Republic—is in breach of the Rules of Procedure, which all of us regulate in the functioning of this House in two articles. Start by failing to comply with Article 222. the, which specifically states that the debate of a motion of censure begins « on the third parliamentary day following the submission of the motion of censure ». So let me remind you of the chronology of the facts. On December 29 it was the date on which the motion was submitted and entered the services of the Assembly of the Republic, with the Office of the President. On 30 December, Friday, it was the first parliamentary day in which the Assembly of the Republic was in operation, especially on that date that Mr President made the order for the motion to be admitted. December 31st was Saturday. The 1st of January was Sunday, and also holiday. On 2 January, Monday, point tolerance was granted, so Parliament was not working. On January 3, Tuesday, was the second parliamentary day. On January 4, today is the third parliamentary day, i.e. today the debate on the motion of censure presented by the Liberal Initiative should take place. Even failing to comply with Article 222. then, because at the Conference of Leaders there were also other matters under consideration to help Mr President to make his decision and to fix the agenda, Mr President failed to comply with Rule 60. the Rules of Procedure, which concern the priorities of matters to be addressed in the setting of the agenda. According to paragraph 2, it is a matter of absolute priority, inter alia, in point ( d ) of the vote on motions of confidence or censure to the Government. Therefore, the appeal we bring to this plenary today, calling on 230 Members to vote in favour, is for compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u36	We shall vote on the appeal presented by the Liberal Initiative. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the CFP were rejected, votes against IL and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the NAP and the L.]] Let us then turn to item 2 of the agenda of our plenary session, which consists of the urgency debate required by the PSD, on the theme "political situation and crisis in government". To open the debate on behalf of the PSD, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u37	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are here to discuss, on the initiative of the PSD, with the urgency that the circumstances demand, the political situation and the crisis in the government which surprised the Portuguese in the Christmas court, a Christmas present by the Prime Minister that the Portuguese certainly did not want and which surprised everyone. Allow me, however, to begin my speech with a complaint addressed to you, Minister. It is regrettable that today, in this debate, those who should also be on the government bench have chosen to be absent and thus steal from the explanations that Parliament and the country require. [[PSD applause.]] I am talking about who actually has explanations about this government crisis and has not yet done so: Mr Prime Minister and, in particular, Mr Minister for Finance. [[PSD applause.]] Let us look at the chronological facts of this government crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u38	But tomorrow they vote against the motion of censure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u39	In April, the Minister for Finance signed an order appointing Dr. Alexandra Reis as President of the NAV ( Air Navigation of Portugal ). But at that time, did you not question the reasons that had led Dr. Alexandra Reis to leave TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) just two months earlier? Didn't you inquire about how Dr. Alexandra Reis had gone out, if in conflict, whether for incompetence or otherwise? Did you not inquire if she had received any compensation or compensation from TAP? Did you not consider that Dr. Alexandra Reis had a serious problem of conflict of interest, when she moved from public company to another in the same ministry, having important competences in the air navigation part? Then, in May, the Express newspaper published a news about a supposed compensation Dr. Alexandra Reis had received from TAP. The government has denied the news. But who, in the government, has lied? And didn't the Minister of Finance think it was important to investigate whether there was any compensation? It is that, a few weeks earlier, I had appointed Dr. Alexandra Reis for the NAV Presidency. In May, the Minister of Finance saw nothing, he did not inquire, he did not question. [[PSD applause.]] But there is more because, in December, she invited Dr. Alexandra Reis to the Treasury Secretary of State, without worrying about everything I mentioned here. Also in December, the Minister for Finance saw nothing, he did not question anything. This shows that the Minister of Finance was incompetent, light and irresponsible. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese ask: how is it that someone who behaves this way and acts this way can be in front of the most important Ministry of governance and be responsible for managing the finances of Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u40	What about the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u41	You cannot, and you cannot, Mr Finance Minister does not have political conditions to continue in office. [[PSD applause.]] In just nine months, Mr. Prime Minister destroyed the political capital that the Portuguese had given him on January 30. The Portuguese gave an absolute majority to the Socialist Party to ensure stability, but Mr. Prime Minister is not able to govern and guarantee this stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u42	What about the opposition?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u43	And it is not said that it is the opposition that creates the cases in which the government has surrendered in these nine months. The opposition scrutinises and controls. It was not the PSD who appointed Dr. Miguel Alves to Deputy Secretary of State of the Prime Minister, having him several cases in court and under investigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u45	PSD is not opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u46	It was not the PSD that developed and published in Diário da República an order on the location of the new airport in Lisbon to be revoked the following day. It was not the PSD who appointed Dr. Alexandra Reis for the NAV and the Secretary of State of the Treasury without investigating their conditions of departure from the TAP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u47	PSD is not opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u48	It is the government which, internally and through its action and inaction, undermines the political stability that the Portuguese have entrusted to it less than a year ago. And it is not only the PSD who says so, it is also the President of the Republic, who, in the message of the New Year, I quote, said, in relation to stability, that only the Government can "weak or empty it, or by organic errors, or by discoordination, or by internal fragmentation, or by inaction, or by lack of transparency, or by take-off of reality. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u49	What about the 15-year debates?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u50	The country needs a government that respects the majority that the people gave it in January 2022. But if this does not happen, Portuguese can have the guarantee that the PSD will always be the alternative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u51	In order to intervene in the debate, I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by wishing you all a good year, and this is the first time I address this House in the new year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in politics it is good not to ignore the problems and it is good to assume the humility of recognizing when failing and, above all, to correct and tackle the problems with certainty. That is what we have done: we have identified the mistake, we have corrected it, we have recognized the responsibility, we have assumed it, we have found the solution and we are here to respond to Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Ministers for Protection requested an evaluation of the IGF (General Inspection of Finance ) and the CMM ( Committee on the Securities Market) — of which we are awaiting results — and we assume - politically, with the consequences that the whole country knows. This is called to honour the mandate that the Portuguese have entrusted to this government, an absolute majority who does not turn away from reality, but who faces and solves the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is expected of an urgent debate, in a context where external uncertainty calls us to enormous internal challenges, calls on us to respond to what we have no responsibility, but whose need is pressing in a government, is that the government does not take vacation, does not deviate from its focus and continues, as it has continued, to solve people's problems and to find solutions for people. Strange, strange, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the urgent debate called for by the PSD is not a real urgent debate on the problems of the Portuguese, but a real urgent debate to know who wins the leadership of the opposition to the right in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, given the demanding time and the new year of 2023, when the war has not yet ended, what is required of a responsible government is that it continue to govern. And continuing to govern is the difficulty of the debate to the right, in this Parliament, and to the PSD in particular. I understand the frustration of the PSD by not wanting to discuss with the government what really matters to the Portuguese:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u53	Want, want! The government won't let it go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u54	... the result of governance, Mr President; the results of GDP (gross domestic product) of 2022; the results of the 2022 deficit; the level of historical unemployment, as we have never had — for years we have not had! — ; those who are the exceptional support we have given to families to deal with increases in cost of living, increases in energy cost. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is expected of the greater party of the opposition is responsibility in discussing the problems that affect us all, every day. Perhaps you don't even want to discuss these matters, and I'm not saying that, Mr. Member, it's not the government, it's really the suspect The Economist who says that Portugal is among the economic winners in the year 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And for one reason, Mr President: because what matters to the Portuguese is the stability of their policies, it is the stability of a strong leadership and, above all, it is the government's cohesion to continue to respond to people's real problems. That is why, when we talk about income, we can say that in 2015 the national minimum wage was €505 and that is today €760. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can tell pensioners whose pensions over these seven years have risen and which, in October 2022, had an extraordinary complement, that we will continue to increase their pensions in 2023. That is why we can tell the most vulnerable people that we increase the value of the IAS (indicating social support) so that all social benefits can respond to the difficulties that people have. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who can say that in health or education, we are doing everything possible to continue to respond to a public school of quality and to the National Health Service (SNS ) that responds to Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of the moment, even if you want to be distracted by the foam of the days, is a responsible government to respond to those who are the real needs of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u55	Madam Minister, the Bureau has registered two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. For the first request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have heard you talk about the cohesion of the government right now, it seems to us to demonstrate that, in fact, the Minister is in another world, she is in another reality than that of the country, because if there is something that is not cohesive and is breaking down, it is the government. [[PSD applause.]] Madam Minister, at this point in the debate, I have to tell you about the TAP, I have to tell you about the BMWs and the scandal of the decision you wanted to make to buy, being an intervention company. As you know, Mr President of the Republic has come to bring the common sense that has prevented this process from moving forward. We now have the case of €500 000, half a million, in compensation. This, Mrs Minister, in a country where companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are discussing themselves with galloping inflation and with difficulties at all levels, is absolutely atrocious and unparalleled political immorality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u57	These EUR 3200 million that the Government, ideologically merely on ideological issues, wanted to put in the TAP are generating an added difficulty for the rest of the country's economy. I remind you that virtually all of those who were the values of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) have been lost in this political decision. At this point, it seems obvious to us all that it is a major political mistake that decision to bury EUR 3200 million in the TAP, which we need so much every day. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It's political decisions, it's political decisions! [[What was your solution?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u58	Mrs. Minister, in April, I told ex-Minister Pedro Nuno Santos that TAP would probably be his political incinerator. He did not or did not intentionally listen, but I tell him today that the possible resignation of the TAP administration alone does not reach or is not enough to remove the resignation of Medina from the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u59	It is not worth continuing to throw sand in the eyes of anyone, nor to build narratives for media communication that aims to cloud our clear vision of reality. The question I ask you is the one that was left to answer to the Portuguese: does the country, today, assure the country that TAP will return the EUR 3200 million, which is the money of the people, which is the taxpayer's money? And let me, Mrs. Minister, make one last request. Do us a favour: tell Antonio Costa and Fernando Medina — who, we know, are used to managing things in their own way — that this House, the government and, above all, the country are not the House of Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u60	After all, there was only one request for clarification. In reply, you have the floor of the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u61	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Moniz, first of all it is good for us to be aware that the Portuguese State has obligations, that there is a plan for the restructuring of the TAP, that must be fulfilled, and that is how it is carried out, in good faith, that which is the responsibility of the State in relation to its commitments. Secondly, Mr. Paulo Moniz, with all the respect I have for you, the addresses will give to you Mr. But there is one thing I wanted to say to the Portuguese: in fact there is focus and responsibility in this government, there is cohesion in this government. With regard to Mr Finance Minister, you may not want to talk about the results, but I am going back to them, because I think the results of economic and financial policy, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it really matters to the Portuguese, whether or not the Portuguese can cope with the difficulties we have. [[CH protests.]] That is why I am referring again to: the economic data and indicators we have now, which have been coming from 2015 and that neither the copper pandemic nor the inflationary situation have prevented us from continuing, resulting in economic growth, a decrease in unemployment, a decrease in deficit and a decrease in public debt. That means being able to continue to respond to the problems of the Portuguese, although the honourable Members. Members preferred a different fact, rather than responding to the problems of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u62	Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group continues to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u63	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Portuguese have lived a period of extreme adversity, with a pandemic that almost paralyzes the world economy, which has put under pressure the most advanced national health services in the world, where ours is included. in this period, they had a solid government, which responded with agility, responsibility and solidarity. in this harsh period, the SNS did not fail, the public school did not fail, social security did not fail, the social state was once again present... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u64	How can you say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u65	... and the management of the pandemic was successfully carried out, placing people, families and companies at the centre of political action, as is the grasp of the Socialist Party. We've been side by side with the Portuguese. This was our urgency: to save lives, side by side, with Portugal and with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We now live subject to the effects of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the consequent increase in energy costs, food goods and raw materials. We have seen the greatest global inflation in recent decades, the increase in interest rates, an unprecedented climate crisis and migratory pressures, with more than 100 million displaced in the world, in its vast majority women and children, and Portugal, once again, in terms of migration, is doing its part on the right side of history, doing just to its humanist tradition. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite this difficult situation, the main economic indicators, resulting from good governance, are encouraging, and some of them have been emphasized by the President of the Republic in his message of the New Year. Otherwise we see facts and results: in 2022, Portugal was 2. the country of the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u66	Later!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u67	... with greater economic growth;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] ... the unemployment rate was historically lower, 5, 8 % ; the public accounts are in order, with the historical reduction of public debt to 110 % of GDP in 2023, compared with 130 % of GDP in 2015, when the PS reached the Government ; there was a historical increase in the national minimum wage, which increased between 2015 and 2023, by almost 50 % when the forecast of the accumulated inflation rate between 2015 and 2022 is about 13 %. We are and will always be side by side with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are fulfilling the programme that the Portuguese have covered in the polls, we are fulfilling expectations, clearly expressed in successive State budgets. Do we or do we not comply with the reduction of IRS for young people and middle class? We've done it. We comply with the progressive freeness of day care. We meet the extraordinary increase in pensions. We have complied with the increase in family allowance and have innovated with the creation of a new social benefit, the Guarantee for Children. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who needs the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u68	Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u69	Who sees in every problem the opportunity to cause wear? Who presents nothing for the country and devotes himself to cases instead of causes?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u70	Should we be quiet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u71	Or is it who needs to solve and who, in the face of adversity, chooses solidarity with austerity? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is easy to answer and the Portuguese know it has been this government that has been with them in good times and bad times. The package of measures to combat inflation, with an overall amount of more than EUR 6, EUR 4 billion for families and businesses, well reflects the scope and diversity of support. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, this is our urgency! And it should also obviously be yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u72	Our emergencies are closing because of the lack of doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u73	Contrary to what is stated, and the facts deny this narrative, this stable majority, anchored in 120 Members, has a great capacity for dialogue. I give three great examples of this spirit of building consensus: the historical agreement in social consultation for the value of income and wages and for the increase of competitiveness; the multi-annual agreement for the value of wages of public service; and the historical agreement with the Portuguese municipalities, giving stability through these agreements, giving predictability, in sectors which both tell people and the organization of their lives. After the sectoral agreement on decentralization in the areas of education and health, yesterday, the Prime Minister signed a new agreement with the Portuguese municipalities for the social area, essential area, strategic area. We are also side by side with the Portuguese municipalities and we are side by side with the Portuguese, when we want to ensure that the housing public park in Portugal reaches 5%, up to 2026. We have allocated at the PRR a sum of EUR 2, EUR 7 billion to accelerate this transformation and the current measures, which have now culminated in this government remodeling, with the creation of the Ministry of Housing, which we have already welcomed from here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any demanding problems to be solved? We recognize with humility that it is. Are there many structural challenges to overcome, such as inequalities, demographics, climate or digital? Of course I do. That is why we signed them in time on the Agenda for the Decade and adopted medium- and long-term instruments such as the PRR and the 2030 Agenda. Have vicissitudes, errors and dynamics also existed on the government roster? They have existed, but they have been promptly resolved and do not represent any internal crisis. What really matters, ladies and gentlemen, is the focus, is the continuity of the relevant public policies, which have given us good results and strategic horizon of trust, which we want to assure the new generations, which, as the Prime Minister said, in his Christmas message, must have the freedom to follow their dreams and opportunities to build their future. Portugal ends the year of 2022 growing above expectations, against the forecasts of many. It is an extremely positive end for a year in which we have demonstrated, once again, that, despite trying, we will not deviate from the essential: to move forward side by side with the Portuguese, at all times, aiming at a more just, more equal and more dignified society.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u74	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u75	Because time, Mr President, does not wait for us, as the poet says, that is, and will always be, our urgency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u76	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered a Member of the PSD to request clarification, that the PSD does not wish to waive, although the Member does not have time to answer. Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD therefore has the floor to make the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we thank the propaganda exercise, at the end with the touch of poetry, but there are four very specific questions to which we believe that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group should also respond. The first question is: is the PS comfortable with what he said—and little said— Fernando Medina?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u79	The second question is: is the PS comfortable of, in the Government that supports, at the moment, a Minister, that of Finance, Fernando Medina, not verifying the background of the state secretaries he appoints? The third question is: does it not understand the PS that Fernando Medina has to give more explanations about having appointed a State Secretary who received half a million euros from the Portuguese, when he passed from a public company to work in another public company, all in the sphere of the state? [[PSD applause.]] And the last question, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it is: the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is comfortable with the fact that the model of Fernando Medina, the model of « I did not see, I do not know, nor do I want to know», makes school in this government, when the State Secretaries change, and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do we even know that it's frequent, because all the time they go out and enter new state secretaries? These are the four issues the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group should answer in this urgent debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u80	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u81	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: A TAP administrator, a public capital company, terminated his contract two years after the end of his term of office and received half a million euros. After four months, this administrator was hired for President of NAV, an entity that shares custody with TAP. Six months later, this same administrator is appointed to the Treasury State Secretary, who has the financial protection of TAP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a home. A small house does not earn, in the same week, the Secretary of State of the Treasury, the Minister of Infrastructure and its Secretary of State, because TAP is a public company which fired hundreds of workers and cut wages to all who remained, because the power to admit or resign administrators is the shareholder of the TAP rather than the CEO (the chief executive officer) and because the Minister of Finance has the financial protection of the TAP. The country wants answers. The country wants to understand how million-dollar contracts were allowed in TAP. The country wants to know who's in charge, after all, in the company and why the manager left. The country wants to know why a resigned administrator is then hired to an organ managed by the State. The country wants to know how the Minister of Finance did not know about the course of his State Secretary, if he has the responsibility to financially protect TAP. And the country wants to know why the Minister of Infrastructure has resigned. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes does not come to Parliament today to answer any of these questions. In fact, he didn't. The Government and the PS have asked to waste their time so that they do not have to answer any of these questions. The Minister is here alone and exclusively to protect those responsible for this scandal, from the moment the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and she is doing so, in fact taking advantage of the package of the Socialist Party Members, who have rejected all the requests presented in their committees to listen to the leaders of the TAP and the Ministry of Finance, the former Minister of Infrastructure and the former Secretary of State. Now, the Minister is coming to say here: "Let us work". Madam Minister, I remember — I mean, I don't remember, but I know — there was another Prime Minister who said the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u82	It wasn't me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u83	It was called Cavaco Silva and it was not a good thing to give clarification or to like very much of its relationship with Parliament. Mrs. Members, using the absolute majority to prevent Parliament from scrutinying the government is not stability, it is abuse of power. Hiding those responsible for the TAP case, waiting for the matter to pass, will only bring more emphasis, as the country realizes that the government has in fact something to hide, because otherwise it would allow the polling. This is not a house that the government debends but, in essence, thanks, for not talking about the real cuts in wages and pensions. The resignation of these ministers is not due to the external uncertainty of the pandemic, war or inflation. It was the absolute majority who resigned the ministers. They were the cases created by the arrogance of the absolute majority who resigned the ministers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u85	This is not a different fact, it is a demonstration of poor public management, it is a face-to-face to TAP workers, it is a face-to-face to public officials and all the workers who live with cut real wages and who suffer to arrive at the end of the month, while the Minister and the Socialist Party come here to strike a budget strike, after so much effort by the people in Portugal. And it's finally a shot at the credibility of the government. If the Socialist Party has nothing to hide and if it wants to recover a credibility resistance, the only thing it can do is approve a parliamentary inquiry committee to investigate this case. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u86	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u87	Mr President, Minister : When I heard Mrs Susana Amador, in this pulpit, I thought for moments that we were playing, but we weren't. Mrs Susana Amador, President of the Loures Municipal Assembly, said : "Therefore, we can assure the Portuguese that the SNS has not had any failures, that the economy is rising and that we are even going to be the seconds with greater economic growth". Mrs Susana Amador, is president of a council this morning—it wasn't yesterday or a week ago, it was today! - you had 14 hours of waiting at your hospital. It's a shame to come here to say that the country is okay and that everything is going well. [[Congrats from the CH.]] At your hospital, at the hospital of the municipal chamber that you have been leading, 14 hours ago, and Mrs. Deputy is going to that pulpit saying it's all right. This is a sign of a government on the contrary, of a government that pretends that there are no problems, that there are no millions of Portuguese people who cannot pay the house at the time we are today, because they have seen their benefits rise up to €100, €200 or 300, who have to wait endless hours in public health services and who cannot work because of the teachers on strike in their children's schools. Mr President, seeing a ruler, like the Minister, and seeing the honourable Member come here to say that it is all right is an offense to all Portuguese and it is an offense to our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u89	No, Mrs. Minister, this isn't just a little house. We can't talk about homes, when Portuguese with pensions of 200 € see a Mrs. Secretary of State take home half a million euros, illegally, irregularly and, of course, immorally and without any ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u91	When we see a governor chosen by the Minister of Finance and a Secretary of State who led the TAP negotiation process with the government and said that he didn't know anything is the same as the Iraqi Minister of Defence saying that he doesn't know about any American tank in the city. What the PS wants to do is play with the Portuguese and run to the poll.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u93	But now I do not want to let this opportunity pass, Mr President, without saying this: a few months ago, the Minister, sitting there, said that he would still be in the government and I would no longer be here in this House. [[CH's laughs.]] [[Protests of PS Members and CH Counter-Protests.]] I am very sorry that this Minister, in the midst of political cowardice, rather than being here today and tomorrow for the motion of censure, has called for a suspension of his mandate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is the greatest political cowardice there is memory in Portugal. Mr. Minister, this is no longer a government. It's a government that's falling so low every day, that there's a lot of government scattered everywhere. What we have today is the PS divided into the middle, wanting to divide the country and the Portuguese into the middle. And you are right in saying: Portuguese people want to know about the supply of the house, they want to know about the price of essential goods, you refuse to go down, you want to know about the taxes you have to pay every year, about the companies you have to close, about the children at school and about the price of the school you have to pay. That's what the common Portuguese want to know. But unfortunately there is no day when a more melodious case does not touch the credibility of this government. A government without authority is a government without morals to govern.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u95	Can we say that Fernando Medina didn't know when your Secretary of State led these negotiations? It's very doubtful that we can say it. Can we say the Ministry of Finance didn't know anything? Can we say that the government wants to maintain the administration of the TAP even though it knows that it decided to pay these immoral prizes? Can we say that this government has some credibility after attacking TAP administrators' bonuses and paying millions, or thousands, to a State Secretary? It is against this that we have all fought in this country: one thing for the rulers, another for the Portuguese. That is our limit, that is the limit of your government. We will therefore vote tomorrow alongside the motion of censure to bring down your government, which is ashamed of Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I am very sorry that the authors of this power debate, who rightly said that pulpit, everything is wrong on this land, have decided that tomorrow is still the time to keep the government in office. on our part, there is no doubt of the opposition we make. This is the time to change government. We're here and we're ready for that task. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u96	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u97	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: I begin by asking Mrs Susana Amador if she could tell us the name of the imaginary country she spoke about, up there. I would like to buy a ticket and go there for a vacation, because, really, this country of wonders is not, of course, Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] We have a country in which half the population is in poverty, with the Socialist Party. We have an average class of low wages, in which two thirds earn less than 1000 €, drowned in taxes. We have a government with negotiations cases of 15 in 15 days—there are so many that I don't even know! It's the ghost flag, the military hospital, the TAP. It comes at such a high speed that we even forget the previous case, which is really a fantastic thing. The Prime Minister spends more time managing the government than managing the country, he spends more time managing the Socialist Party, at the expense of the country, than resolving the problems of the country, and there was not so much instability during the management. That is why, Mrs Minister, instability and political crisis is what we already have, not what would happen if the government fell. Instability and political crisis is what we already have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u99	Elections, now, were what would allow a new solution to exist, either side of it. I would also like to conclude by agreeing with the words of Socialist MP Alexandra Leitão, who said that this is a sort of end of cycle in such a recent majority. I would like to ask you whether you have received the explanations you have made publicly to the Minister of Finance, concerning the procedure and the choice of the former Secretary of State. It is, in order to believe Mr. Finance Minister Fernando Medina, we need to believe that he has appointed someone twice without seeing the curriculum. I don't know if the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes this. We also need to believe that a journalist had more information than the entire Ministry of Finance. Nor do I know whether the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes this. Finally, we also need to imagine and believe — it may be so! — permits, whatever they are, make the person isolated from the world and without any information. So I begin by asking the leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to believe in these three things. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u100	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : Today it would be hoped that either opposition or the country would leave this debate with answers. The PS has already spent its time, the Minister too, and therefore we will have to continue to wait for the answers. This is very negative, Mrs. Minister. The country still expects to know whether or not they will disclose whether Alexandra Reis's case, which made the attempt to draw half a million euros from TAP — a broken company and which has been distributing premiums of more than 1000 million euros to its top managers in 2019, was in fact a single case and will ensure the transparency of the contract and the contractual conditions in which Alexandra Reis came out. Moreover, the country wants to know whether, in fact, the Government and also the Parliamentary Group that supports this absolute majority are well aware that a company that was in this financial state has made this distribution and that it pays this kind of compensation. Finally, the country wants to know whether or not they are available to change the rules of the game. In addition to the lack of scrutiny and not to perceive, in a transparent way, what has happened to this process, it was important to assure the Portuguese that we will not continue to have this type of situation here and whether they are available to follow proposals such as that made by the NAP to apply the status of the public manager to companies where there is State intervention, as is the case with TAP. In fact, one day we cannot come here, for example, to negotiate in the State budget measures such as the reduction of VAT (tax on added value) of the essential charge for families—in which parents and mothers at this time have to choose between feeding their children or eating themselves—and then, on another day, see not only compensation for this amount, which are absolutely immoral, given to top managers, but hear that there is no money in the country. There's money, it's very badly distributed, very badly paid. Madam Minister, here I leave the following appeal to you: once and for all, give the clarifications that the country wants to know, because the worst service they can do, in democracy, is to turn to silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u102	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u103	Mr President, it was only one year ago that we were debating in the campaign for the elections that this Parliament elected and, at the time, the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, called for an absolute majority because, he said, it was a guarantee of stability. What is good in history is that it always brings the answer: a year later we know that the most unstable government in Antony Costa is the absolute majority government. And it's not by chance! Mr Bernardo Blanco, a little while ago, said this very much: neither the management government was so unstable. Well, it's not by chance. But rather the tension, the demand for dialogue and negotiation between different parties, with a written agreement, than an absolute majority closed on itself, where instability is more internal and, therefore, more hidden, more difficult to understand and more difficult to manage, than what is seen by everyone in the plurality of democracy in Parliament. Therefore, advice to the PS and the government: if you are sure of your absolute majority - and you have - do not talk so much about it, because when you talk a lot about an absolute majority, insecurity is transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u104	Watch out for time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u105	I think you should even make a moratorium on this kind of permanent enchantment of the formula of the absolute majority, to see if it rests you in any way, because you notice the anxiety and because what the PS should do is to govern as if it did not have an absolute majority: let the Minister of Finance be heard here in Parliament; accept the proposal of the Left Block, to set up a committee of inquiry; accept the proposal for a constitutional review of the Free and for the prior hearing of ministers and secretaries of State in this House of the Republic. To show that one learns, in fact, from mistakes, is to change anything, following this serious political crisis by which the government has passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u106	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs: In the face of political events, statements, the implications still arising from the process involving the appointment of Alexandra Reis to Secretary of State of the Treasury, and which led to various resignations in the Government, from the beginning of the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, the Assembly of the Republic should not be reduced to a stage of mornings for « wars of alecrim and manorona ». The Assembly of the Republic should not be limited to an account debate with the already classic approach to tacks, incompetences, those who did not know, those who did not want to know, those who left and those who remained. No, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly of the Republic must be the place for the political debate of the fundamental problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u108	Is the management back?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u109	... which are at the origin of this situation and which have become more evident because of the appointment to the Government of the former TAP Administrator after that scandalous route of appointment, resignation, rotation and compensation. It is these fundamental problems we are talking about, Mrs. Minister, and this is no different fact. It is no different fact that there are managers with royalties and benefits that are paid precisely to carry out truly revolting operations of job destruction, sending thousands of workers to unemployment, withdrawing rights and destroying collective bargaining in companies that are under government protection. It is no different fact that, while an administrator receives compensation of half a million euros, workers who are victims of dismissal continue to reduce the value they are entitled to by law. In view of this, the PS says it's next to the Portuguese. But of which Portuguese, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u110	from those who earn the minimum wage!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u111	of which the salaries are cut and the rights denied, by decision of the Government? Oh, my God! of those who went to unemployment in order to carry out an approved plan between the Government and the European Union? Oh, my God! of those who are fired and are not entitled to the legal value that was due them, because it was cut by PSD and CDS, and the PS kept the cut? Oh, my God! No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there is neither the PS nor the right side of these Portuguese, until the right side agrees with the Government on these essential issues. The right-wing disagreement, the right-wing opposition, is not in the background options, in fact, the PSD and the IL have already shown clearly what the solution they have to offer to the country in relation to the TAP and other companies in the state business sector, where this matter is placed. In the face of this shameful framework of appointments, compensation, millionaire contracts, the right solution is very simple: privatize, quickly and forcefully! Everything is private,... [[Applause from the IL.]] ...it remains all secret, no one has to know anything, because «is capital and no one leads to evil», it is not, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Don't count on the PCP on that path, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because what is happening today, what is the result of government decisions has created more serious problems for the business sector of the state, its workers, the national interest, and is readily taken advantage of by the right to demand, to cry out for more and faster privatisations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u113	...to hand over to the capital what they believe should never have been removed, and that the TAP will be finished tomorrow if necessary. That's what the right has already shown you want. For this policy do not contain with us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u114	We don't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u115	... for this opposition they do not count on us, because we, on the part of the CFP, clearly assume this commitment. Portuguese can count on the CFP to denounce and combat this impunity of those who impose disastrous decisions on the national interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u117	... but, above all, to take a policy to defend the interests of the country and the workers, to take a policy in which there is also clarity and democratic transparency. The Minister said that, in politics, you should not fall into the mistake of forgetting mistakes — it was her words, Mrs Minister — and she spoke in honour of the mandate that the Portuguese gave you. If that's the case, the ladies. Members of the PS would not have dropped the demands presented by the CFP to discuss this matter in the parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u118	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u119	If that's the case, the ladies. PS Members should not lead the CFP proposals to restore compensation due to the workers who are dismissed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u121	If so, this government should not continue to bring water to the mill of right-wing politics, accelerating and aggravating the indecorating situations, scandalous situations, which rightly deserve the outrage of the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u122	Just talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u123	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u124	Mr President, I did not understand whether the CFP will vote in favour of or against the motion of censure that will be discussed tomorrow, since it is all wrong in this government and it is time to replace.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u125	Don't hurry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u126	Mr. Minister, close to the end of this debate, there is a clarification that must be given : Pedro Nuno Santos and Fernando Medina asked for clarifications to the TAP, the day after the payment of this compensation was announced, whether or not there had been a payment, where there had been a payment and in which framework there had been such payment. Pedro Nuno Santos, contrary to what a part of the socialist bench wants to make it appear, did not resign himself for assuming its political responsibilities, for being a very complete man and saying "I'm here giving a chest to bullets" — no! — he resigned because the newspaper, the next day, was to have on the cover that the Ministry of Infrastructure knew about this compensation. This is the truth! Therefore, the Minister, of the two, either: or Pedro Nuno Santos lied to the country or the government lied to the country. There is no other chance in this story, because Pedro Nuno Santos said "I didn't know anything" ; the government said "I didn't know anything" and the next day the newspaper said that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Secretary of State had this information. So one of them lied to the country. It was good for the PS to draw out his illusions and responsibilities: Pedro Nuno Santos and his ministry lie to the country. I don't know if it will or will not happen to Antonio Costa, but there is a bad sign that is given, from now on, and deliberately lying to the Portuguese is never good in democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u127	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD calls here today an urgent debate on the crisis of the government and I would like to know what the urgency of the PSD is because the PSD has already announced yesterday that it will not vote in favour of the motion of censure and, therefore, the only urgency is to keep everything as it is, it is the urgent need to politically validate this socialist governance. I have listened very carefully to all that Mr Miranda Sarmento said, I would say that I agreed with almost everything and what I do not understand is how, then, tomorrow, he will vote contrary to everything he said in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u130	In fact, yesterday a social-democrat poster was put on the streets saying: « Within 9 months 11 government members have fallen. How long will the swamp last? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, I tell you that, for us, the swamp would end tomorrow, the question is that it seems that the PSD likes that swamp, contrary to what then communicates. We have an ungovernable government, a country with services in chaos, flooded in poverty, so irresponsible is to leave the country as it is;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u132	... responsible for withdrawing this government. [[Applause from the IL.]] PSD says the motion has no chance of passing through. Well, if we go around, then we never vote for anything, because we think there's no chance of going through, we're gonna lose our votes and nothing happens, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u133	And you also had an obligation to present an alternative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u134	If you want something, you have to vote in favour of it, and so what I ask Members is that they think until tomorrow and vote in conscience. Think until tomorrow, I repeat, because they're still in time to change their mind. I conclude by saying that if the PSD systematically takes the position of not being opposed, we will be here to oppose and be a real alternative to Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u135	To close the debate on behalf of the PSD, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u136	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: you are really an artist, Mrs. Minister! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u137	I brought us a lovely range of opera to enchant the Portuguese and sleep them, but it was an insult to the Portuguese intelligence. [[PSD applause.]] It shows a state of denial and take-off of the reality of the government vis-à-vis Portugal. Mr. Minister, or the government quickly changes behavior, or the country will quickly need to change government. Get this right! [[PSD applause.]] For this reason, during all her speech, the Minister spoke about everything, about the influence of the batracy on the flower tank, too, forgetting to answer the questions that the PSD had put, to hide Mr. Minister for Finance! And she's alone and abandoned! Therefore, the Socialist Party today voted against the presence of the Minister of Finance here, but fortunately, there are power rights, the PSD will exercise them and the Minister of Finance has to come here next week to answer the questions that the Portuguese want to see answered. [[PSD applause.]] This is because we already know that tomorrow the Prime Minister will not answer and will again hide the Minister of Finance. But he'll have to come here, because he'll have to tell us if he's light and if that's how he runs the country, with the same levanity he analyzes the people he hires. Name people for a public company coming from another company, without realizing why they were fired from the other company? If you've received compensation or not? Did it go out of incompetence? What led them to go from one side to another? Mr. Minister doesn't care about that? The Minister then comes to the government after news in the public square that there were compensations, even though the government denied them in May, and the government did not try to find out if it was true? This is pure leviance, it is no way to manage Portugal. The country needs much more and much better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u138	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of point 2 of our agenda, so we move on to point 3, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 250 / XIV / 2. a ( José Bruno Teixeira Alves et al.) — Nurses with an individual employment contract (ITC) ask for equality in respect of those who have contracts for public functions, together with the general assessment of Law Projects No 186 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Equalization is made between nurses linked to an individual employment contract (ITC) and nurses linked to a public service contract (FPC) for remuneration and remuneration positions, 378 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integration of workers with individual employment contracts into their Public Administration careers and 448 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Equality between workers with individual employment contracts and with employment contracts in public functions in the field of health. To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Frazão has the floor as soon as there are conditions for this. [[Pause.]] Since Mr Pedro Frazão is not in the Chamber, we then pass on to Mr João Dias of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to congratulate the more than 9000 petitioners who come to ask the Assembly of the Republic for equality between nurses with individual employment contracts and nurses with employment contracts in public functions. of what they ask us in your petition, we would like to highlight the requirement that they respect for the nursing profession, the dignity of nurses, in particular those who are faced with individual employment contracts and who constitute the overwhelming majority of nurses in this country. We also stress the need for the elimination of inequality in the treatment of professionals, often working at the same institution, or in the same services, including care for the same patients and users, however, with unequal treatment, particularly in matters relating to working hours, wages and wages and, including holidays, among other rights. And where they come from, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, such injustices and inequalities? Oh, my God! They result from the proposed option that imposed the individual employment contract as a rule for all areas, generalizing precariousness, deregulation and increasing working hours, promoting unequal and unfavourable treatment among workers who perform the same functions. When, today, these petitioners ask us to say « present! », it is above all because it is fair to end an inequality that not only harms workers, nor does it contribute to the improvement of the quality of care provided in the SNS and, still, because when and whenever we need them, health professionals were there. They've been and are! They always said « present! » Be in the pandemic, whether for the needs of the population, we are sure that we count, count and can count on your dedication, commitment and professionalism. Now it's them, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, they are asking us to say 'present'! Now, they need us and now the PCP says « present! Do not keep on seeking. ” It's not palms that health professionals need. It is not with recognition and words of gratitude—which are to value—that they will feed their children or have access to the quality of life to which they have the right, even with the appreciation of their professions, their wages and their rights; it is by fighting the screaming inequalities, such as those we are discussing and that we urgently need to correct. The CFP therefore upholds the principle of 'equal work, equal rights' and, in this case, defends that all workers in the Public Administration — not only nurses but all — must have a stable public bond with rights. We therefore propose a bill that integrates all workers with individual employment contracts into their respective careers, with public links. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u140	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u141	Mr. President, Ex.mos Srs. Members: Today, we are discussing what should not be discussed, which is equality between the honourable Members. Nurses and the recognition of the real effort by all of you. Nurses, who have always said « present! Do not keep on seeking. ” The Constitution of the Republic is very clear: in its Article 13. o — Principle of equality, says that « All citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law », but the current majority of PS, previously supported by the PCP and the Left Block, abandoned nurses and disrespected the Constitution of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u143	What do you have to say about the contempt described in this petition? What do you have to tell nurses about the treatment received in recent decades? But if the parties abandon a Constitution where the simple phrase « Human life is inviolable» is read, if these parties abandon the Constitution to destroy human lives, through abortion and euthanasia, more easily leave the Constitution to discriminate against the Members. Nurses, nurses, these, whose vocation is precisely to care for and defend human life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] For the arrival, this discrimination imposed and encouraged against this professional class is unacceptable, even more unacceptable after nurses are considered as one of the main heroes in the front line and "give the body to bullets" against the pandemic of covid-19. The government, yes, is ungrateful and, as a reward, turn their backs on them. Socialism is so: equality is not for all, there are more equal than others. The gentlemen. Nurses have not been equal for 18 years and, in a cry of revolt, send us this petition. Now, the most equal are those who are carriers of a PS militant card, or members of the Medina, Mendes, Marcelo, Caesar, or Costa. Mr. President and Mr. Members: The problem that nurses are living is not a matter that has to do with health and their ministry, but a question that belongs to the competence of the Ministry of Finance, which is therefore their responsibility. The responsibility to end this inequality has a name: it is called « Fernando Medina ». The Socialist Party does not like to hear this, but we all know that the responsibility for these inequalities originated in the government of José Socrates. The third bankruptcy of the Socialist Party has led millions of Portuguese workers to see their incomes falling, and yet they have not been recovered. But Mr Brilhant Dias, if his co-religionary Fernando Medina, Minister of Finance, had 3200 million euros to inject into the TAP and even to buy 20 % planes above their base price, if he had 500 000 € to pay compensation to the former Secretary of State Alexandra Reis, then he will also certainly have money for the Mrs. Nurses. If Fernando Medina says that there is money to create the Ministry of Housing, at a time of great difficulties felt by families, if the government increases public spending by creating more places for carriers of the « pink card», in an attempt to calm the nervousness of the suspended Member, Pedro Nuno Santos, then he will also have money for the honourable Members. Nurses. If there are up to EUR 10 million to spend, per year, with the office of the new CEO of health, who, instead of solving problems, sends to close emergency services, then there will also be money for the honourable Members. Nurses, there will be no shortage of money to solve the problem of health professionals who fought the pandemic. The lead of this bill of arrival will mean that the majority of the left has definitely turned their backs on the workers. The House and our parliamentary bench promise that they will do everything to return hope to the honourable Members. Nurses and all Portuguese workers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u144	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government of the Socialist Party has treated health professionals badly. Yes, these workers and these workers were heroes during the pandemic and proved that they are essential to the country, but besides the beautiful words, they received nothing in return. They feel, and rightly, that the government has turned their backs on them. The day after Christmas, for example, 90 health professionals — nurses, psychologists, nutritionists, pharmacists — were fired. For two years, they were cave tracers. They say, and I quote, "We always worked, without weekends, without holidays, always on a continuous basis and in 2021 we were cancelled vacations". They had the promise that they would be placed in other projects and ended up fired. But is there no need for these professionals in the National Health Service? Don't you need nurses, psychologists, pharmacists, nutritionists? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. by the sights, at least for the Government of the Socialist Party, they do not need them, they are disposable! And it is true, then, what I said: the Government of the Socialist Party treats health professionals badly. Recently, we also learned that the nurses at the Hospital de Braga will not be counted points or career time for the time that these professionals have worked, in the past, so they will continue without progression, with the eternally frozen careers, and some work in Braga, for the National Health Service, since the time of the old Hospital de São Marcos. by the way, that doesn't matter. The objective seems to be to reduce the costs with wages and working conditions of these and other professionals. It seems that there are those who have not learned that a worker or a worker from the National Health Service is not a state "fat". The government treats health professionals badly. That is why more than 9000 petitioners, whom the Parliamentary Group of the Block of Left greets, address the Assembly of the Republic to require equal treatment between nurses with individual employment contracts and nurses with employment contracts in public functions. The invention of individual employment contracts in the National Health Service was justified as being a more expeditious way to contract, but nothing is so far from the truth. If the objective was to expedite contracts, hospitals did not need a cascade of authorizations to hire a nurse. The generalization of individual employment contracts has always been an objective and has always served to lower the costs with the work in the National Health Service. These contracts have only served to avoid counting points, with a view to career progression, so that these workers cannot apply for progressive competitions, so that these workers have less rights and less pay. It is indefensible that there are professionals working side by side, in the same institutions, with the same functions, to whom the State treats in a completely different way. This degrades the State, degrades the Public Administration and, as many of the nurses with individual employment contracts who joined the petition that they delivered to Parliament, in addition to the proven illegality and the manifest injustice that this situation generates, the discouragement and the feeling of ingratitude are certainly not promoters of availability and productivity. They and they are right. If you really want a strong National Health Service capable of responding to the population, you need to give working conditions and wage conditions to health professionals. Whoever does not want to strengthen the SNS is that he arranges these records to reduce wages and spread discouragement among professionals. The Left Block wants to strengthen the SNS and that is why we bring this bill today, so that it is included in the law the equality of conditions and treatment between workers with CIT and workers with employment contracts in public functions. For us, nurses are not disposable, health professionals are not "fats" of the state and the SNS is not only the verb "birth", it remains to be known whether they are for the PS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u146	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the more than 9000 subscribers of this petition, which makes us discuss a topic of greater relevance and which, in the view of the Liberal Initiative, deserves a serious, comprehensive and extended approach, which necessarily passes through a profound reform of the Public Administration. We all agree that nurses should see their profession and their valued work, as well as their merit, effort and recognized dedication. As far as the National Health Service is concerned, this is precisely what has not happened in the last decades of governance, with shared responsibilities between PSD and PS, and more recently the PS had the help of the Left Block and PCP. And this has not only happened with regard to nurses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u148	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u149	This has happened in relation to all health professionals and also to many other professionals in the most varied areas. That is why we are surprised to see now this momentum of some political forces to solve the problem of inequality in nursing careers, claiming that the solution goes by linking all nurses, or, in the case of the CFP, all workers, through public employment contracts, as if they had not had any responsibility for seven years. Mrs. Members, the problem is not only in the qualification of the contract of work and in the various injustices that exist between professionals who exercise the same functions, injustices, those which obviously delay to be resolved. What we should be concerned about is also the poor working conditions, the low wages and the low attractiveness of careers in a public service that is immobilized and completely stopped in time. What should concern us is the permanent inability to reform the SNS, transforming not only the life of all health professionals, but the life of all people. There are problems in nursing careers, it is a fact that no one can deny, but we cannot forget that they are problems created by the State. So we are obliged to ask: is it with more state in the lives of people that we are going to solve the problems of SNS and nurses? It will not be surprising to anyone that the Liberal Initiative believes it is not. It is not with any more state that problems are solved, but with more freedom, more equal access, with better and fair working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I can not fail to mention that politics can actually produce very interesting phenomena. Today we are faced with a debate that has converging proposals from the Arrival, the PCP and the Left Block. Converging proposals, but which do not serve Portugal and therefore need to be worked and improved, so that there is justice with nurses, it is true, but so that there is justice, too, for all other professionals of the Public Administration. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u152	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who, in the exercise of their right to petition, today lead us to discuss this topic of the greatest relevance and which reflects the profound injustice felt by nurses in our country, in particular with the regime of the individual labour contract that is applied to them. The petitioners tell us about situations as loud as those of professionals — some, practically, with 18 years of experience in SNS entities — to whom the time of service has not been counted since the start of their duties, and who are at the same pay level as a nurse with a month of professional experience. We are also told about professionals who were forced to bind themselves to hospitals other than those where they effectively performed functions, because the institutions were unable to renew their contracts, and do not see that time of service accounted for. The NAP has already presented a number of initiatives in this House aimed at putting an end to these and other injustices, in particular with a view to changing the rules of nursing career and valuing these workers with a special regime applicable to nursing careers and recognizing a special regime of penosity applicable to these health professionals. It is never too much to remember that, at a post-pandamy time, when, more than ever, we had the real perception of the value of these professionals, which we should be discussing today — and to have already been present in our legal order — was the effective appreciation of their careers. This legal perversion of professional progression is treated in a way that is clearly different and, at the end of the day, what we find is that the government is startled by the problems of the SNS and the postponement of its resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u154	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u155	Mr President: This petition represents another step in the struggle of nurses with an individual employment contract — which is already 18 years old — that they do not progress, because the time of their service is not accounted for. This is a fair struggle and it should be trivial to understand that those who have equal work must have equal value, have individual employment contracts or employment contracts in public functions, and even nurses who are in a normal contract of public functions must be equal to the superior technical career of the public function. This is just another example of the many abandonments, neglects and scorns that nurses and nurses are victims in the National Health Service, from those to whom they were asked, when they ended up with the careers of head nurses, who performed them for several years and who, when they left to perform, went to the bottom of the career and ended up losing all accumulated experience. And, of course, in terms of income itself, everyone who has compressed wages is vulnerable to, by any offer, going to the private, thus weakening our National Health Service. The Book presented the Resolution Project No. 307 / XV / 1. the, which recommends the counting of points in its entirety and the replacement of parity between the nursing career...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u156	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u157	...and the superior technical career of the Public Administration and we appeal that it also be approved when it is scheduled.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u158	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the more than 9000 petitioners on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group which allow us to have this discussion. In recent times — the last debate was at the end of November, and after that, in the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, we received a union delegation of nurses, we had the opportunity to hear various trade union structures to remind us, and not to let this Parliament forget, what nurses live in Portugal. And here we see two situations, of course, the overall position of nurses, regarding, for example, wage valuation, which we still discussed, as I said, at the end of November. on that occasion, we asked the Socialist Party what it had against the Portuguese nurses—since it had voted against, in the State Budget, a proposal by the Social Democratic Party that, in fact, followed the wage valuation agreement, that they both boasted and left out special careers, particularly that of the Portuguese nurses—but on this we did not hear any answer. What we know is that our proposal has gone down and we still don't know how the government wants to solve this injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u160	It's settled! It's settled yesterday! In part!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u161	What we are discussing here today, more specifically, is an injustice, among the Portuguese nurses, between those who have individual employment contracts and those who have employment contracts in public functions. And the truth is that it is spoken in the right to a holiday, in the counting of service time, in the evaluation of performance and consequent progression in career. It is also true—and we have already had the opportunity to say—that there have already been some attempts to resolve this issue, but it was important to understand two or three questions, not only because of the petition here, but also because of the proposals made by the Arrival, the Left Block and the PCP. First, it should be noted that, in order to avoid misconceptions, this remuneration progression, this equivalence between individual employment contracts and public employment contracts does not depend on the wage link. And so much does not depend on the fact that in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and then in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, injustice has already been healed in the defreezing of careers between individual employment contracts and employment contracts in public functions. The difference between what happened, first, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and then in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and what happened in continental Portugal is that who rules in continental Portugal is the Socialist Party, and the Socialist Party, and can resolve this injustice, did not do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u162	It was you who created it! It was you and the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u163	The desire to resolve this injustice that exists between nurses who are side by side, to exercise the same functional content, depends on the will of who governs, and the Socialist Party has no desire to govern. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u164	But it was you and the CDS-PP that started everything in 2004! Take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u165	The proof of this is that, even at the previous point, we heard of a country that had everything to offer. In fact, the Minister said: 'an absolute majority that does not turn away from reality'! But: «that confronts and solves problems». So the question I leave is: besides everything that they have against nurses, what prevents you from specifically solving the problem of this special career?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u166	You'll hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u167	It is that, in 2018, when the progression in nurses' careers was frozen, we all realized that the application of the law created the injustice with which we are debating today. And the Socialist Party took four years to resolve this "creative interpretation" of the law, which, once again, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira was resolved immediately next year. What happened? It happened that, in November last year, 2022, the Government of the Socialist Party issued a decree that, in thesis, it would solve this situation of injustice, but it did not come, from the outset, because it established the retroactives in 2022 and not in 2018. Even if we have tried to recognize good intentions to the Socialist Party so far, what we have seen today when we talk to the unions is that the application of one more decree of law of the gentlemen, to correct a mistake and a freeze, is not working and continues to generate situations of injustice, as we have heard the nurses say, in the Commission... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u168	But you did it! The mistake was you who made it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u169	Madam Member, I'm not the one saying it, it's the union associations! And that is the problem: that the Socialist Party seems to have difficulty listening to trade union associations, that is, only when it makes the political narrative work, because, when it is necessary to make clear what is wrong and how it can be solved, and, if justice is done, the various trade union associations of nurses have ended the dialogue with all political forces, making clear, step by step, what was needed to do — what are you doing? Nothing, strictly nothing! [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u170	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u171	They voted against our proposals in the State budget and we want to know how these proposals will now be voted on, which correct an injustice that you have created and which have the power to resolve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u172	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The participation of citizens is fundamental to representative democracy. Therefore, I express appreciation for the petitioners' initiative and also leave my genuine appreciation for the performance of health professionals. I now see the issues that we appreciate, I want to confess one thing: I have no profile to address such important issues on the basis of noise, lies and distortions of facts, as I have heard, in some of the interventions made here. I will therefore try to bring some seriousness to the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Public Administration consists of a universe of entities of different legal natures, associated with different models of hiring their workers. However, despite the duality of schemes being a reality that justifies discussion and weighting, it cannot be dealt with, for example, with the so-called 'linking convention', which the CFP itself presents. The coexistence of two employment schemes does not necessarily imply that there is unfair treatment of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u174	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u175	... because there are legislative instruments and collective labour regulations that allow the people who work to be treated fairly, regardless of the nature of the link they hold.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u176	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u177	It is this path that has been carried out, especially in sectors such as health, where they coexist the contract of work in public functions and the individual contract of work, specifically in the entities that constitute the SNS, they also possess distinct nature, as the Health Bases Act highlights, and also the most recently approved SNS Statute, which well demonstrates the choice of harmonization of labour regimes in various dimensions. This path also results, as you all know, from more specific diplomas related to some special health careers. The SNS Statute establishes an exceptional mobility regime that applies to health professionals, regardless of the legal nature of the employment relationship and health institutions and services. It is also established that professionals working in the SNS are subject, on the basis of the legal nature of their establishment or service, to the rules of the General Law on Public Works or the Labour Code, but it is admitted that, by way of derogation from the general law, rules on careers, mobility, duration of working periods, covenants of permanence, defense against the risks of professional exercise and guarantee of technical and scientific interdependence may be laid down. The projects under discussion reveal, therefore, and I say this here with all vehemence, not only a lack of knowledge of the framework that already regulates labour relations in the Public Administration, but also the absence of a comprehensive view of public employment that is important to ensure consistency and to avoid inequities of treatment in each sector and across the various entities and sectors of the Public Administration. As for the petitioners, they claim that there is — and I will use the words of Mrs PAN — nurses with individual employment contracts and, practically, with 18 years of experience in EPE hospitals (enterprise public authorities) and other SNS entities who have not been counted on the time of service since the start of their duties, "take the same level of pay as a nurse with one month of professional experience". However, the petition we are talking about goes through the previous legislation and, therefore, recognizing this situation as a substance of very critical matter, the Government has made a commitment to correct this injustice, which has achieved, after negotiation with the unions, with the publication of a decree of law at the end of November. It's here,... The speaker showed the diploma she mentioned. ...is Decree-Law No 80 - B / 2022 of 28 November, for whom you do not know. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The application of this diploma was carried out last December,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u178	And it's not going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u179	... revaluing nursing careers, regardless of the type of contract, and thousands of nurses — almost 20,000 —, because of retroactivity, received values between €2800 and €5600 in January 2022. [[PSD MP Protests Joana Barata Lopes and Sofia Matos.]] The annual budgetary impact of this measure amounts to around EUR 80 million. It was therefore, My Dear Members, that the balance between the various workers and nurses had been compromised by the succession of regimes and satisfied a fair claim by the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u180	But it's the unions who say so, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u181	This measure, which adds to other measures, including the replacement of the 35-hour work programme or the creation of the specialist nurse category and its supplement. Finally, if there are matters that are not yet fully harmonised, as is the case with holidays,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u182	They'll be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u183	...the head office is the collective contract with the unions. The government has, as you know, various negotiating processes within various public sector careers aimed at valuing them, so the process is not closed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u184	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u185	... but there is indeed a great upheaval in progress, which has already allowed nurses—as I said at the end of the year—to see their points restored, to this day, which have not been recorded for many years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u186	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u187	Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u188	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u189	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u190	Mr President, I would just like to ask Mr President to request the services they distribute to Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, and now to the Socialist Party's bench, until the last meeting at which we received a union association, on the petition, that Mrs. Deputy is rapporteur, in which we were told that that decree I read that Mrs. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u191	Mrs Eurídice Pereira also wished to speak to the Bureau. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u192	Mr President, I really want to mention two things. The first one, to ask that the decree-law I mentioned here be distributed, because it corresponds exactly to the requests made by nurses. Secondly, I would like to say to the honourable Member — through the Bureau, if I may —
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u193	You can't do that anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u194	... that we were actually at the same meeting, but it seems we heard different things. [[PSD protests.]] No one has said what the honourable Member here has just said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u195	Even today, at the Conference of Leaders, we have made oaths not to spend paper, but ultimately, so that the Members will bring to the Bureau the indication of the electronic address and that information will be shared in a humanist and ecumenical spirit. You now have the floor, speaking ecumenically, Mr João Dias, of the CFP. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a fact that some of the interventions that have been produced here today are deeply out of date and we realize that we need to follow this matter, because injustices are very large and many of them originated in the PSD-CDS governments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u197	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u198	...but the PS didn't solve them either. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that the CFP assumes and has always assumed its responsibilities. And if today the counting of points was made thanks to the struggle of workers, particularly nurses, but also to what the PCP has always led in this House and that led, including, to the presentation of proposals that came down to the specialty and that the PS dried up. And how did the PSD vote at that time? It was prevented, and it could make it impossible what was the lead and the rejection of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u199	And he could have approved! All right! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u200	I also tell you one more thing: we assume our responsibilities, particularly when, in 2018, in the State budget, on a proposal from the CFP, the right to progress of public administration workers was achieved. And this has been reflected both in health professionals and in public administration professionals. It was thanks to the PCP proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u201	Today, I couldn't give!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u202	It is clear that today I was no longer giving, with an absolute majority. But I also want to tell you something...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u203	Mr. João Dias, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u204	Mr President, I just wanted to leave here a very important challenge: if they say that individual employment contracts are so good, then let the professionals of the Public Administration choose, let the professionals of the Public Administration be able to choose between the individual employment contract and the contract in public office and then we will see if they choose the individual employment contract. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u205	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Eurídice Pereira, I apologize for having to tell you, but your speech is a total dissociation of reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u207	Yours is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u208	You're in a schizophrenic episode... you don't know that tomorrow, the ladies. Nurses are going to start a strike? Oh, my God! Mrs. Deputy, tomorrow the ladies. Nurses are going to start a strike! And the honourable Member should not have read this petition because, in the second paragraph, she says the following: « (...) they seek, once again, to hear a scream of revolt which has lasted for 18 years and which, therefore, becomes increasingly desperate. » Mrs. Member, this petition has been signed by over 9000 people, and many of them will certainly be nurses! It is no use to come here to speak in a decree, which, in fact, was approved in a month in which last week we had a black week in health. in this month, when they passed this decree, we had a strike of the pharmacists, a strike of the doctors, a strike of the nurses, a strike of the technical assistants of medical action. So, all Mrs. Deputy is saying, frankly, is a total flop... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u209	It's not a flop, no! It's money they'll get!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u210	... and does not correspond at least to what the Order of the Nurses says, does not correspond to what the unions say and does not correspond to what the professional associations say. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I have to give a word to Mrs Joana Cordeiro, who was very startled by the legislative impetus of the Arrival. The honourable Member is impressed by the legislative momentum of the Arrival, but, look to me, I am no longer impressed by the lack of legislative impetus of the Liberal Initiative. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is that once again, like the PSD, the Liberal Initiative does not bring us any proposals! Zero! For this point of debate, zero, it does not propose anything! So, Mrs. Member, a little more work. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u211	So now you say the girl doesn't work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u212	So we have reached the end of point 3 of our agenda. We refer to point 4, which is the joint assessment of Petition No 235 / XIV / 2. a (Paul God and others) — In defense of the Tapada das Necessities and of the Resolution Projects Nos. 94 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — By preserving and defending the Tapada das Necessities as a public space, 105 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By maintaining the garden of the Tapada das Necessities, 131 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By rehabilitating and safeguarding the public interest and enjoyment of the Tapada das Necessities, 151 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By preserving the historical and natural values of the Tapada das Necessities and 161 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Regenerate the Capada das Necessities and open the Royal Palace to the public as new by the museum after exiting the MNE. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Tapada das Necessities is a unique space in Lisbon. Mr. President, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u214	There's that little stir between the compasses. I think we're already serene.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u215	Yes, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u216	I would ask the services to rest as long as the honourable Member had it and the honourable Member could begin. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. The Tapada das Necessities — I said — is a unique space in Lisbon and, despite its inexplicable degradation, we speak of urban and natural heritage recognized as a heritage of public interest and of the greatest importance for all the lisboets and, above all, for those who have the privilege of still living in the city and of being able to occupy and enjoy this space. On the justification for its requalification, this space, after its management was transferred by the Ministry of Agriculture to the City Hall of Lisbon, was once again granted to private persons, in particular to a company called Banana Café. This requalification, made by this private undertaking, within the scope of the concession, does not safeguard the property concerned in the Tapada das Necessities. On the one hand, because it foresees the demolition of several buildings that are historic, protected and important—from the home of the central centre of the old Zoo to buildings in the north—but also because it provides new buildings that raise public security issues, in addition to a decharacterization of space. The residents and municips were removed from this whole process, not having been called by the municipal chamber to participate, either in the requalification project, or in the grant to privates, now facing a scenario and an ongoing reality in which the entire heritage of the Tapada das Necessities is, in fact, put in question, with demolitions, new constructions, granting to privates of a space that should be a place of enjoyment of the municips, one of the few green spaces in that area. So, first of all, we would like to thank and value the petition delivered and the movements that were created around the Tapada das Necessities. It was more than 10 000 residents, citizens of Lisbon, who submitted this petition in defense of the Tapada das Necessities. We know that there was already a draft resolution approved here in 2021 presented by the Social Democratic Party, and I think there are several parties that are united in the need to preserve this space. What we propose is that, on the one hand, the protocol which allowed the delivery of the area of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Municipality of Lisbon, preserving the forest and the green spaces of the Tapada das Necessities ; on the other hand, that it be suspended its concession to private persons and that a genuinely participatory process of rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Tapada das Necessities, be carried out in order to transform this space into a space that can be enjoyed by all citizens — once again, it is said — that they still have the privilege of being able to live in Lisbon and of being able to pay for income and housing prices in Lisbon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u218	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today in this House four draft resolutions on the defence and preservation of the Tapada das Necessities. It was necessary for a group of citizens to petition for this matter to be discussed in this House. The Tapada das Necessities is classified as of public interest and national monument, being registered in the PDM (municipal master plan) as a fifth and historical garden, being property of the Portuguese State. It is one of the most emblematic treasures and full of meaning in the history of Lisbon and Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u221	Its palace is a historical and cultural wealth that it is our duty to all preserve and safeguard, in the name of all Portuguese. The City Hall of Lisbon, under the responsibility of Fernando Medina, allowed the Tapada das Necessities to reach an extreme, shameful degradation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u223	The Portuguese know that one of the techniques most used by the Marxist propaganda machine is to rewrite history, but in this particular case, we run the risk of, in addition to historical redefinition, witnessing the destruction of historical heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u225	This attack on the Tapada das Necessities is the conclusion of the attack that this heritage suffered when it was the target of a bombing on 5 October 1910, in an attempt to murder King Manuel. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through the lands of this Tapada passed the simple people of the city of Lisbon, which there built a small hermit in honour of Our Lady of Health, in 1613, for this had protected them from plague. Sailors who left in search of new worlds passed kings who built a royal palace, a church, a convent and the Cerca das Necessities ; and even an Academy of Sciences was established there by the church.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u227	According to the petitioners, since Tapada passed into the hands of the authorities, about 13 years ago — 13 years ago, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — some small-mounted works have been carried out, such as the repair of the greenhouse glass and improvements in the water system. Unbelievable! And the petitioners continue, saying that everything else remained as until 2008, i.e. abandoned buildings and parties, degraded sources and lakes, poor-state cat garden, insecurity, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u229	Those who care so much about the environment and defend it, according to Agenda 2030, are letting our Tapada das Necessities be destroyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u230	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u231	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u232	It is time to revoke the protocol of assignment, approved by the City Council of Lisbon and the Ministry of Agriculture, and to develop a comprehensive recovery programme for Tapada.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u234	The arrival says 'no' to the destruction of our heritage and the friends of the Tapada das Necessities can count on all our support. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u235	I would like to congratulate all of you, wishing you and the ladies a good year. Members and all members of this House. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners in defense of the Tapada das Necessities for the civic intervention in defense of the one who is one of the most unique and valuable green shelters in the city of Lisbon. It could be said that the matter in question has an eminently local scope, and it is true that this matter has already been dealt with in the Chamber and in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, in which the CFP electors had the opportunity to show their convergence with the concerns present in the petition — but the truth is that the Tapada das Necessities is not only a garden for the benefit of the citizens of Lisbon, it is also a place that hosts a set of entities that exercise sovereignty functions incompatible with the state of degradation to which that space has arrived.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u237	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u238	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Instituto da Defensa Nacional e la Casa do Regalo, where the office of the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio was established, and until his death, functions within the framework of the United Nations ( UN ). Taking into account not only the historical, cultural and environmental value, but also the strategic dimension of that place, it is unacceptable the current state of prolonged degradation of its built and natural set, as well as any attempts to deliver the management of that space to private entities. It was in this sense that the CFP submitted the draft resolution accompanying this petition. Since 2008, the powers of management, rehabilitation, maintenance and use of the Tapada das Necessities have changed by protocol from the Ministry of Agriculture to the City Hall of Lisbon. Despite being obliged to submit a safeguard detail plan, the City Council of Lisbon, without taking this step in the creation of such a detail plan, decided to launch a competition for the award of that space to a private entity, granting this which was to be celebrated in 2016. in this process, the municipality licensed works that provide for the demolition of several spaces of Tapada and the construction of a restaurant with 100 places, a kiosk and a multipurpose building with capacity for 200 people, profoundly altering the characteristics of Tapada, which led to the mobilization of the population against these changes. Only after granting the space, licensed the project and following the popular contest is that the Authority presented the Avanteplano de Salvaguarda, whose public consultation resulted in a report expressing the opposition to the commercial exploitation of Tapada, the construction of mass-use equipment and the disregard for the cultural, botanical and landscape heritage existing. In view of the fact that the City Council of Lisbon has failed since 2008 to fulfil its obligations in the management, requalification and maintenance of Tapada — a situation which has only worsened with the granting of private space — what the CFP proposes as a resolution of this Assembly of the Republic is very simple: to recommend to the Government that it assess the possibility of revoking the protocol under which it transferred to the City Council of Lisbon the management of the space and to ensure, with or without protocol, the rehabilitation of that space and its public use, preventing any concession to private entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already bad when a green area of public enjoyment is granted to private people, but this situation is even worse. The space that houses the headquarters of national diplomacy, which houses the Institute of National Defence (IDN ) and which served as headquarters for the office of an old President of the Republic is not a space that can be granted without taking into account these characteristics, in addition to the use given to it as green space.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u241	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u242	It is not even a space that can be left to abandonment and degradation over years. Regardless of any protocols or concessions, the Government has the responsibility to guarantee the dignity that this space deserves and that citizens claim. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u243	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 10 000 petitioners who bring us to the debate the threat that arises, at the moment, about one of the hidden treasures of the city of Lisbon, the Tapada das Necessities, who, despite being classified as a property of public interest - and where, in addition to the value of the building itself, can find several arboreal copies, some of which are rare - have presented signs of degradation that give us high concern. Despite its high historical and heritage value, Tapada continues to abandon, which partly leads to the protocol that exists between the City Council of Lisbon and the Ministry of Agriculture itself. The management, rehabilitation, maintenance and use of this emblematic heritage is in fact the responsibility of the City Hall of Lisbon, since 2008, but a management of this space has been allowed not only to call into question the preservation of the heritage — whether green or built — as the animals themselves who are on the site have been abandoned, being fed only by the compassion of the users of that space. in this sense, the NAP accompanies the concerns of the petitioners, presenting a draft resolution that, in order to safeguard the preservation of this historical heritage, aims to put an end to the suspension of the procedure for granting this important green space to privates. This, in the name of precisely the valorization and preservation of this unique heritage that is the Tapada, so that its values, both natural and built-up, are not lost. I finish by greeting once again the petitioners and all those who have mobilized for the preservation of the Tapada das Necessities in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u245	Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today — the same day we are debating the political crisis of the government — five draft resolutions aimed at defending the Tapada das Necessities, including a project presented by the PSD. It may be coincidence, but unfortunately, the state of Tapada is itself the worst portrait of the state of this country. The state to which it has reached, at the end of so many years, is that of total degradation! I would even say that it is decomposition if the analogy were with the state of this government. Nevertheless, Tapada is one of the most beautiful gardens in the city of Lisbon, with unique historical, cultural and environmental value. His genesis dates back to the 18th century and is closely related to the Aqueduct of Free Waters and the existence of a branch that is classified as a national monument. It is still classified as a property of public interest since 1983. It was already in 2008 — 14 years ago, therefore — that the Ministry of Agriculture, through a signed protocol, transferred the management of Tapada to the City Hall of Lisbon. Since then, nothing has been done, the House has degraded this wonderful place and only in 2014 was it worthy to announce the granting of the exploitation of a set of buildings to a private company. After a few years, the licensing of construction works was approved, however, without the necessary contingency measures to safeguard this monumental assembly, in particular because works and amendments were planned that threatened a heritage that should, and should, be protected. All these decisions, surrounded by unacceptable secrecy, were taken by the Municipal Chamber at the time, directed — surprise! — by Dr Fernando Medina. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u247	In view of this, movements of citizens were created, legitimately, to protect Tapada and to develop various civic initiatives. The petition entitled 'In defence of the Tapada das Necessities', which entered this Parliament with more than 10 000 signatures, appeared. I therefore welcome and greet all the subscribers of this petition, who have reacted and acted in defense of the threatened heritage and also, through their action and perseverance, in defense of our democracy. The right of petition, enshrined in the Constitution, well illustrates the importance of citizens' participation in the construction of a democratic society. Allow me to invoke Sá Carneiro :« The exercise of democracy means, here and now: audience to the people, popular initiative(...). Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u248	It was only in the wake of and in response to this civil society initiative that the City Council of Lisbon had just moved forward with the elaboration of anteplano de Salvaguarda da Tapada das Necessities. This is already in 2021. We know that at present this process is being followed—and on the eve of being completed—by the new House team, in order to safeguard Tapada. But this same subject had the attention of the PSD, which in this Parliament, in July 2021, saw approve a draft resolution by which the Government was recommended to ensure the Safety Plan of the Tapada das Necessities ; urges the City Council of Lisbon to evaluate and revise the terms of the concession; strengthens the security and surveillance of the space; and ensure that the process of regeneration of the Tapada das Necessities runs in a transparent, inclusive and participated way. These concerns have already been welcomed by the City Council, but today, gathered here, we can and must go further, we can go further! The draft resolution under discussion is entitled « Regenerate the Tapada das Necessities and open to the public the Royal Palace as new by the museum after the departure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ». Such a solution implies, of course, the exit of some or all of the services of the ministry that are located there, but its eventual exit opens a unique opportunity for the restructuring of this space, even here in the heart of Lisbon, allowing citizens to enjoy the Tapada and the Royal Palace as a whole. What makes little sense is the maintenance of technical and administrative services in this same building, even above, when it is public that the government decided to concentrate the ministries on a new pole to be installed in the headquarters building of the General Deposit Box. Until recently we all have seen the decision of the administration of a deficit public enterprise — the TAP, of course! — to transfer their thirst, without any apparent justification. We ask ourselves: is not sufficient justification, should it not be a cause of common interest that this Royal Palace, which was the last residence of the kings of Portugal, is open to the public? It was from there that he left, in fact, in the estertor of the monarchy, el-King D. Manuel II, on the day of the republican insurrection. This Republic which has assisted, for its part, a group of ministers and state secretaries in the last few days — indeed, weeks! With this parallelism, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters to us is to regain Tapada and open the Royal Palace to the public. This is our wish. We therefore advocate a collaborative process, duly linked with the City Hall of Lisbon and which, above all, promotes citizens' hearing. In addition to the unique heritage in itself and whose defence must all be mobilized, Tapada can also prove that politics, when made in close partnership with citizens and oriented by the public interest, is always worth it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u249	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the 11 000 petitioners who have shown their concern about the state to which they have reached the Tapada das Necessities. The Liberal Initiative considers that the Tapada das Necessities can no longer be a "white elephant" in the city of Lisbon, which everyone knows exists but forgets and insists on ignoring. The Tapada das Necessities can no longer be just a green space abandoned in the parish of the Star, a space with about 10 ha, whose historical importance is furnished to a corner, left in ruins by mere disparity and lack of will of political power. On several occasions, the Liberal Initiative had the opportunity to defend, at the Lisbon Municipal Assembly — the right place — that the Tapada das Necessities lacks profound intervention and that its rehabilitation could even be an opportunity to place the city of Lisbon at the forefront of urban planning, like the main European capitals. It is unacceptable that, until today, the final version of the Safety Plan of the Tapada das Necessities is not known and it is even more unacceptable that, due to the mere dispelment and inertia of the local power, this matter comes to Parliament through a petition submitted by 11 000 signatories — 11 000 citizens who, rather than the local power, take the nets and are concerned about the state and future of the Tapada das Necessities. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone here knows that this is not the appropriate forum for this discussion. The decision on the future of the Tapada das Necessities does not and must not compete with the national Parliament, and much less Parliament should be consistent with the lack of local power and accept a competence that is not its own. On the contrary, the Liberal Initiative advocates administrative decentralization. We defend that this type of decision is adopted by those who, by reason of proximity, are in better technical and political conditions to decide, either because it is the body of the local power that knows the reality of intervention, or because it is the body that is closest to the people who care about the fate of their parish, their street, their garden, in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth the parliamentary groups to pretend and come here, too, to ignore this formal 'elephant' of Parliament's lack of competence to decide.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u251	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u252	The future of the Tapada das Necessities passes through the political will and intervention of the local power, which cannot continue to ignore its responsibility. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Decentralisation is like Tapada, a necessity. in the same way, it cannot be done irresponsiblely and, like the Tapada, left to the abandonment. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u253	Mr Pedro Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives we have discussed are motivated by a popular initiative around the defence of the Tapada das Necessities and, therefore, our first word is a word of recognition and greeting to the petitioners who brought this initiative. Our democracy is social-economic but also participatory, and it is therefore important to greet the petitioners and recognize them the realization of this dimension of democracy. As far as the initiatives we are discussing today are concerned, I have found some agreement. On the one hand, from what has been said, the Left Block and the PCP questioned in their own place, either in the City Hall of Lisbon or in the City Assembly of Lisbon, what to do in relation to the Tapada das Necessities ; on the other hand, the Liberal Initiative underlined several times, and well, the very place for this discussion. The initiative that draws attention is that of the PSD, which, as in many other issues of the reality of the country, has even managed to create for the garden of the Tapada das Necessities a framework and a reality that does not exist, which is the eventual exit of the MNE (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) of the said facilities, which is neither expected nor exists anywhere. In the face of this picture and in the face of an exit from the Tapada das Necessities — which does not exist or is expected — the PSD proposes, exactly, the creation of a museum space. That is to say, this is more a topic of facts or alternative realities for future actions or actions to be carried out. I would even say that we are facing a case—until we can call it that—the arboreal creativity of the PSD,... [[PS laughter.]] ...more than, itself, a real sense for the Tapada das Necessities. Until we trust the PSD Members and their bench to, instead of presenting this draft resolution, have the ability to speak with Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, or partners who can do so, and express their ideas—many, as we have seen here today. Regarding the other initiatives, it should be noted that we are aligned with the objective of preserving, safeguarding and preserving this important historical garden of the city, valuing its natural elements and architectural heritage. For the Socialist Party, as did DGPC ( Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ) in its 2021 opinion, it is important to draw up the Safety Plan of the Tapada das Necessities. Strangely, we haven't seen any PSD action in our own places in this sense yet—they've ruled the city of Lisbon for another year and therefore it's time to change the chip.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u255	It takes morale! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u256	That garden, which had characteristics of a romantic garden in a certain historical period, does not always need to have this characteristic in all other periods of its existence. We can adapt these characteristics, give them multifunctionality and expand valences. Thus, a previous study of this safeguard plan was made and the need for a conservative figure was established. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I would also like to point out that the project and concession made for this space were preceded by a public consultation on the future of the Tapada das Necessities — I know that there are some who do not like public consultations when they do not say what they want to hear! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u257	Oh, then it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u258	... which resulted in the need to expand the valences of that space, allowing greater use and greater public use of that garden, to be something more than a romantic garden, as it was once. That's how it's acting in space, that's how it's transforming a space
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u259	The romantic garden has passed to Banana Café!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u260	Another element that is important to underline, and which is known very well, is that any intervention, even in the future, will always be subject to the safeguard plan. And this is also known by the dealer. I would also like to say that, from the point of view of the preservation of architectural value, it is important to stress that there are organisms and that there is an administration that assesses these aspects. I also recall that the compatibility of these works has already been recognised and a favourable opinion has been given, subject to the preparation of such a safeguard plan. Therefore, we can disagree with administration, which we cannot promote mistrust in relation to administration when we do not believe in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u262	I also want to say that it is false that there is any privatization of public space. I know that it may not satisfy the ideological claims of some, but this intervention increases park security, increases its valences and increases public profit. As has been said, the Block and PCP have made this path in different organs. It's important to question on your own...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u263	Where? At the UN?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u264	... about this previous study, which was still left of Fernando Medina's mandate and to which you did not give any continuity. But whatever the way forward, the Socialist Party does not oppose it, quite the contrary. The Socialist Party will always support participation in this concrete process and will always be available to contribute and affirm the natural value and architectural value existing in the Tapada das Necessities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u265	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today there are five draft resolutions on the table, the majority presented by the parties of this House, with the exception of the Socialist Party, logically. All projects point to exactly the same path, raise the same problems. Let us now see what the true spirit of the Socialist Party is if, indeed, democratic if it is a compressor roll.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u267	Democratic! Always democratic, unlike others, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u268	I have listened carefully to what the Socialist Party Member has said and referred to all projects except the one in the past. So this democracy is already confusing me a little bit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u269	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u270	Don't read, don't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u271	You are not Democrats!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u272	We are, we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u273	We are all democrats, we are all elected by the people, as it seems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u274	No, they're not Democrats!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u275	Aren't we Democrats? Oh, my God! Ó Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u276	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but there is no dialogue. Please make the speeches. [[CH protests.]] The parts are regimential. Please create conditions for the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u277	He can't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u278	What lack of respect is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u279	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u280	Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Brillante Dias that I do not accept him as a politician or a Member or as a man who calls me an antidemocratic... [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u281	...or say I'm not a Democrat. Anti-democratic are the gentlemen, when they draw such a red line in which projects that are positive for the Portuguese people. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] They are positive for the Portuguese people and the gentlemen are giving us a purely ideological issue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u282	This is typically Marxist and is known all over the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u283	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u284	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for Mr Rui Tavares to use the floor. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not hearing noise on my left side, I'm listening to voices on this right side.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u285	What about the gestures? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u286	We will respect Mr Rui Tavares' right to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u287	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than welcome the petitioners, I would like to thank them for doing their mission what the safeguards of the Public Administration — and they do not lack safeguards either at government level, such as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether at local level, the City Hall of Lisbon — for decades they have not managed to do, i.e. to preserve, develop and promote the culture of public heritage in Tapada das Necessities. What is to be done is to find a guardianship that is unique — between the City Hall, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs — to find a plan to safeguard the Tapada das Necessities and to fulfill it, in a logic of the use of public space and the preservation of public space. But I must say this is not a single case. I have brought to this House, more than once, the fact that, in the middle of Trade Square, raining inside the Tower Poente three winters ago—and I would like to tell Mr. Alexandre Simões that, of these three winters, two are already PSD management, with President Carlos Coedas — and nothing happens! They are getting ready to leave the ministries and there will be free space, so I see with some surprise that this House does not debate its public use, including museumology, and the PSD comes with a rather traveling idea of withdrawing a ministry from where it is, in a building that has public use, according to its history,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u288	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u289	...to make a museum space, when in relation to other places where they are going to leave ministries we are perhaps waiting for President Carlos Moedas and PSD to accept that they are coming to be charming hotels, as has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u290	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u291	Thanks to the petitioners. There is still a long way to go in this House to defend the heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u292	We therefore conclude the fourth item on our agenda. We move on to the fifth point, with the general discussion of the Bill No 105 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By increasing the funding of the University of Madeira and the University of Azores ( 6th amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 establishing the foundations for higher education financing) and the Bill No 428 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August, ensuring the introduction of an insularity supplement applicable to the financing of higher education establishments in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. To present your bill, Mr. Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring here aims to cover the overcosts of insularity, a fundamental feature that should have been taken into account when we talk about money to be allocated to higher education establishments in the autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira. Geographical isolation, unstable climate and its size deprive the island institutions of the benefits of economies of scale, which consequently have increased operational costs, including costs related to the acquisition of energy services, infrastructure and telecommunications. It is a question of social justice that the central government rethinks the model of funding of universities and assigns a complement to the institutions of the archipelagos that enable these differences to be mitigated. The effects of the inflationary crisis that the country is going through, and which has resulted in increased operating costs, are felt in a harsh and cross-sectional manner by all institutions, especially by those located in our autonomous regions. Our bill ensures the allocation of an increase coefficient applicable to the financing of public higher education institutions and non-public higher education institutions with cooperation contracts concluded with the Government based in autonomous regions. It is proposed that the formula for this coefficient be determined in the joint portfolio of the Ministers of Finance and Science, Technology and Higher Education, as well as the rules necessary for their calculation and application. The autonomous regions have only 1, 5 % of students at national level, but they also deserve access to education services because it is a fundamental right provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Even so, year after year, the Regional Legislative Assemblies claim the creation of funding that reflects the needs arising from the condition of the outermost regions, without so far having any reception.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u294	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u295	Let's hope things change this time. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u296	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The weaknesses of the legal, institutional and financial framework of the higher education system are known by all for a long time. On the day of the presentation of the OECD study ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) on the financing of higher education institutions at the Lisbon Academy of Sciences, the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education indicated that the theme of higher education funding, which was defined as priority, should have been resolved for a long time. However, there is something that differs from us: it should have been resolved since 2010! The Liberal Initiative can no longer be in line with the priority on this subject, with these claims. Two draft resolutions have been adopted — in particular by our initiative — one on the financing model, another on the evaluation of the legal regime of higher education institutions, and therefore we are quite supportive of the need for revision of the model. But we are right in the face of this time of model review, so case interventions deserve a lot of caution and, in this case, we cannot agree with the individual height considered on this measure. The Proposal for Law No 105 / XIV / 2. the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, by increasing the funding of the University of Madeira, which effectively reflects the anxieties, the consequences of the sub-financing and the urgency of the topic, deserves us all sympathy with the topic ; but we nevertheless agree with the reasons invoked in the bill for an adjustment of the funding of these universities, this theme should be examined together. It is important to solve the problem once and for all, definitely and with a stable character. The Liberal Initiative also argues that, in developing the criteria for financing, insularity should be an essential factor in this funding formula, in particular in dealing with these overcosts. It is also important to promote the transparency and quality of our institutions, and, above all, to implement a model with clear and measurable indicators, which pushes the success and compensates, in itself, the issues of insularity. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u298	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u299	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that has been brought to us with this bill is aimed at correcting an injustice that the universities of the Azores and Madeira have, successively, been targeted in recent years, only and only because of their ultraperipheral location. Because of this location, unlike the universities on the continent, they have not been able to apply to European funds or to most of the operational programmes in force, and there is not even any compensation that seeks to mitigate such injustice. Due to its location and also to its costs, as well as its chronic underfunding, it is more than fair that the guarantee of additional compensation as proposed by the Legislative Assembly of Madeira is provided in law. The justice of this proposal has already been recognised as the State Budget for 2019, which provided for a study by the Government on the creation of such compensation. However, this study has never seen the light of day, nor has the government created such compensation. Thus, in order to overcome this omission from the Government, the NAP can only vote in favour of the proposal being discussed today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u300	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP monitors the concerns and objectives underlying the proposed law under consideration in this plenary, with a view to increasing the funding of universities in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. This is a question of justice and social and territorial cohesion, in order to ensure the development of higher education in the autonomous regions and to ensure access to higher education for students in the Azores and Madeira, including in areas of knowledge where those universities are unable to provide training due to the high costs imposed by conditions of insularity and outermost regions and the unequal distribution of resources. According to a study of those institutions, in the academic year 2017 - 2018, the cost per student in the Azores was €6206, substantially higher than the average value on the continent, which was €4028, while the cost in Madeira was €4474. of the 1093 Azori students who entered public higher education institutions in the first two phases of the national access competition, 626 — that is 57 % — chose to do so outside the Azores. And they did it in courses that, because they have sought significant, the University of the Azores has long sought to offer, but does not meet the conditions for this. In Madeira, in the academic years 2015 - 2016 to 2017 - 2018, the percentage of students who sought higher education abroad reached even 65 %. However, as part of the discussion of the State budget, the CFP has repeatedly put forward proposals to increase the funding of those entities, proposals which have been successively dropped.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u302	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u303	Also in Madeira, the PCP bench presented a bill with the same objective. It is a matter of guaranteeing to the students of Madeira and Azorian rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic, the article of which 9. it identifies as a fundamental task the responsibility of the state to promote the harmonious development of the entire national territory, taking into account the ultraperipheral character of the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira, converging to a greater and effective territorial cohesion and to guarantee the rights equal to all — I insist, everyone! — national citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u305	For these reasons — and for the same reasons as the regional annual budgets are increased, in order to meet the constraints imposed by insularity and the outermost regions — the annual budgets of universities should be calculated on the same basis as that laid down in the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, applying a cohesion factor to their basic financing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u306	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u307	As a final note, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that this measure of justice and urgency does not exclude — before it advises — the need to discuss the fundamental issue, which is the model of financing public higher education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u308	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u309	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Two substantive questions are under this proposal. One question is the financing model for higher education and its injustices, or the fact that today it does not meet the needs of higher education. This is for various reasons, but above all, with regard to this matter, because the criteria with which it defines the distribution of this funding — which is, within the cake, insufficient — and its distribution are often inadequate. The second question relates to the conditions of positive discrimination which the outermost regions, such as the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, should observe in all matters related to the financing of the social state and public policies. This is what this project of the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira has proposed to us, stressing the asymmetries that these universities have in relation to their counterparts in continental Portugal and also highlighting that, due to these asymmetries, these institutions are consecrated and recognised as development poles, but do not have access to a set of factors and funding to which the institutions of the continent have access, such as the possibility of applying for European funds and most of the operational programmes in force, becoming in a position of inequality and injustice. What is at stake is whether the financing of the universities in Madeira and the Azores should be assessed by the same criteria as the financing of the other universities, especially taking into account the way the criteria are evaluated today. Since the universities of Madeira and the Azores have fewer students than their counterparts in mainland Portugal, should this affect them in their funding? We understand you don't. We understand that there must be positive discrimination and that the maintenance of quality public higher education institutions, with a relevant course offer, is essential and also a way of ensuring access to higher education for young people living in autonomous regions who otherwise would not have to travel to the continent. It is therefore a question of changing the form of funding to benefit the autonomous regions because of their condition as outermost regions, but it is also a warning to the need to revise the legal regime and the form of funding of higher education institutions, which is not benefiting those who need the most.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u311	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is, of course, concerned with the difficulties that are reflected in this diploma of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. In any case, I should like to say — and allow me this frankness — that I have observed that the political parties do not follow the decisions that have been taken with regard to the financing of the universities of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and also of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. And they do not follow them because some of the issues — which, of course, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group sees itself, as I said at the beginning of this speech — have already been overcome. One of these issues, in particular, which has been discussed here, has to do with access to European funds. The problem of access to European funds, which was restricted to universities in the autonomous regions, was the result of a partnership agreement made by the PSD and the CDS that did not include this need. But this is resolved and, at present, in the current framework, autonomous regions can have access to these means. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am sorry that this matter has not been mentioned since it is referred to in the diploma, and well. It was a matter that was to be resolved, but which has been resolved since 2022. Another issue that also seems very important to me is the following: due to the difficulties that autonomous regions and their universities have had since 2015 that the budgets of these same universities have increased significantly. The one in Madeira increased by 25 % and that in the Azores by 19 %, so there was a significant effort. It must not be forgotten that today there is also the recognition by the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education that the financing model is not adequate—that is why a study was requested, whose results were disclosed by the OECD on 19 December—and that its criteria need to be changed. This is because the model is unfair and it is in some way necessary to end these injustices. Therefore, what is planned is an amendment to the model of higher education funding, of which the University of Madeira and the University of Azores will benefit. But there's more! in these new criteria and in these new demands there is a theme that has been requested and that will be integrated into the new financing model, which is the logic of partnerships and program contracts, which are very important in order to develop these universities in their own specificities. In Madeira we have, for example, biodiversity, the sea, etc. , and these materials are included. I would like to say to this House — I myself said — in another speech I did — that the Minister has already met on 30 December with the Regional Government of Madeira and the University of Madeira, precisely in order to prepare this programme contract, which could be integrated into the new model of higher education financing. So this is another step that is being taken and implemented. I also inform this House that the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, as I have said in the past, will also present a draft resolution to ensure that these matters which I have just mentioned, be the programme contract, be the new financing model—which is being studied and will be implemented from 2024, having already financial consequences in 2023, in the Budget which will be discussed in 2023 to 2024 — are fully assured as regards the University of Madeira. So the process is going, the solutions are being created and we are solving what was not solved, so it will be realized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u313	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u314	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Regional Parliament of Madeira calls on us to discuss a matter that is not new and that is not resolved only because the PS and the government do not want it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u315	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u316	We are talking about an issue that is essential and structural for Madeira and that the PSD has been defending since the first hour. We are talking about the increase in the funding of the University of Madeira, the adoption of positive discrimination so that the costs, specificities and constraints resulting from insularity and outermost regions can be contemplated. We are talking about doing justice and treating differently what is different, compensating the overcosts of an island university, an outermost region, which, by its location, presents a smaller number of students and a smaller economies of scale. We are talking in fact about strengthening the so-called territorial cohesion and meeting a principle that has even been accepted in the State Budget for 2019, but has never been met by this government. The Government, it is said, failed to comply with the principle, nor did it present to Parliament the study of the increase to which it had been obliged since 2019. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Worse, in the last seven years, the PS has all plummeted, but even all the initiatives we have put forward with a view to correcting and amending this financing model. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u317	The PSD has also led all the initiatives presented by the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u318	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last budget, they have not limited themselves to chumbar. They even approved an unacceptable discriminatory treatment—which we promptly denounce—between the University of Madeira and the Azores, by approving a reinforcement for the Azores and zero for Madeira. This is an unacceptable situation which needs to be resolved immediately and corrected. Mr Carlos Pereira, it is not enough to tell us that the PS is reviewing this initiative. You have to convince your bank to vote in favour, so that the approval of the increase will be settled once and for all. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, they have to do what the Socialist Party has done, in relation to this initiative, in Madeira, which was voted in favour. That is what the Madeirans hope, that the Socialist Party's bench will be consistent with its position in Madeira and that today I am voting in favour of this initiative. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's funding to the University of Madeira has long been clearly insufficient for this institution to meet its responsibilities. from the PSD, we will not stop fighting for the positive discrimination of our university and demand the same treatment that was given to the Azores. Unfortunately — even because of Mr Pereira's intervention just made — we have seen this proposal count again on the vote against the Socialist Party, as has already happened in December with the insularity allowance and the status of the student-athlete. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the applicant votes against the PS in relation to Madeira does not leave anyone indifferent. Certainly, the Madeirans will be paying attention and, still this year, they will make the right change. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u319	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law of the Arrival, strengthening financial support for higher education of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, aims to correct the serious lack of cohesion of the national territory. This is never the result of lack of money, it is always the result of decades and decades of thought addictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u322	The civilism respecting the figure of the farmer, the breeder of cattle or the traditional Portuguese figure was culturally discarded; the tax machine of the State treats the small entrepreneur as a criminal; the disrespect by the police turned grotesque caricature of citizenship law. The Portuguese live culturally suffocated by the veneration of minor figures in a certain urban and suburban world. I speak of self-denominated activists representatives of minorities,... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] ...by progressive artists, by third-world revolutionaries, by globalists, and so on. [[Mr José Moura Soeiro's laughs.]] They are glorified figures for answering everything, but they are all exempt from showing the self-responsibility of those who study, work, pay taxes, create jobs, take care of the family.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u323	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u324	The grave abandonment of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u325	The debate is about the islands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u326	...the depopulation and poverty of significant part of the national territory are products of the cultural swamp in which we live. [[BE's protests.]] It is in this context that we should discuss the issue of higher education in Madeira and the Azores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u327	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u328	... territories that continue to be ultraperipheral, with very few promoters of development. Higher education in autonomous regions is absolutely strategic, but the question is that the heart of the problem is in Lisbon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u330	... is in the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, which has never fulfilled the duty to « separate the wheat from the juicy». [[Congrats from the CH.]] He never separated the quality, useful and viable university courses from the bad, useless and oversized university courses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u332	The Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education does not have the strength to cope with politicized lobes of universities and therefore cannot renew the model of higher education funding. The ministry cannot politically protect regulatory bodies such as the Higher Education Assessment and Accreditation Agency or the Science and Technology Foundation. It's an anti-reformist ministry, no strategy, no direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u333	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u334	The higher education of Madeira and the Azores must not continue to pay for the marasmos of the Socialist Government of the Republic. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u335	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u336	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Higher education in autonomous regions certainly needs additional attention and resources in order to be able to function in some parity of situation with higher education on the continent. I do not know whether this increase should be 55 %. I am sorry, in the explanatory statement of this proposal, that there is no justification for it being 55 % and not 50 % or 60 %, and I believe that this justification should not only come from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but also from the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education itself of the Government. It's just that these accounts aren't made. We do not understand what the differential is and, therefore, what should be paid more. The fact is that there must be a discussion on a new model of higher education funding, which should not be of a single source. In the view of the Free, there must be a part for a strategic fund of higher education, raised through economic activity, which, through contributions or specific rates, allows the directors to make long-term planning; there must be a part provided by the State budget for operating expenses; and there should be a fund of support for higher education students, which should have increases for students living in an insularity condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u337	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u338	I hope that in this debate that the ministry has promised, but that has not yet been done, the debate to be held on the autonomous regions will also be included. In the meantime, we will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u339	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to give two notes on the importance of universities. In the case of the Azores, the university plays a key role in the development of democratic Azores, either in the formation of frameworks or as a repository of an identity and azorianity that is the distinguishing mark of our region. Having said this, I would like to highlight two aspects. I have heard, many times and too many times, that it was very important for universities to have access to European funds. It seems that the universities of the Azores and Madeira have the same access to European funds as the other universities in the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u341	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u342	This is not a win that is advertised as something very extraordinary. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] The question is not that, the question is the underfinancing which, after that, does not allow them to access the funds. This is the PS fallacy! [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] And in relation to the studies, Mr. Deputy, in the last legislature, the rectors of the University of Madeira and the University of the Azores met in person with the Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u344	...explained the two studies made available by a rule... [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] No, don't say you don't know, because we send them! It's done! They explained the two studies made available through a rule of the cohesion fund similar to the Regional Finance Act - based on the Regional Finance Act - and for one purpose: that it is a rule, regardless of the parties that are in government. It is a rule, regulates the relationship, gives stability to the Academy and gives security to future bets. [[Protests by PS Deputies Carlos Pereira and Francisco César.]] I heard everything you said, but it seems to me that you forget that we did not get here today! The studies are done, they are accounted for, but since I am here as a Member of the PS has always voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u345	Seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u346	That's the problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u347	We don't agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u348	For an intervention, Mr Francisco César, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u349	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government... Members of the Government, in this case, are not...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u350	in this case, no, in several cases!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u351	First of all, and allow me to make this reference, it is very interesting to hear a Member from the Autonomous Region of Madeira speaking about the compressor roll of the absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u352	It's true, it's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u353	If there is a place where we know the compressor roll of an absolute majority is in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the case of the Azores neither do I speak, because the confusion is such that they are sometimes the compressor of themselves! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] There are two subjects in this case where I believe we will agree. The first has to do with the recognition that island universities, and I am talking about the particular case of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, need to have a financing mechanism that addresses their island and ultraperipheral characteristics. I believe that this is common to all parliamentary groups. The second point mentioned here has to do with access to Community funds. Let's get to the facts. Did the island universities have access to Community funds? No, they did not, as a result of the partnership agreement signed by you, by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u354	But why? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u355	What happened? With the Socialist Government, with the influence of this parliamentary group, they became access to Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just talk to the principals. [[PSD protests.]] Let's get to the situation today. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] What did the Socialist Party do about the funding issues of the University of Azores? First of all, as regards student funding, the allocation of the University of Azores is higher by 19 % than it was in 2015. This is a fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u356	But that doesn't solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u357	Mr. Paulo Moniz, take it easy! Second point, which is clear: the Socialist Party was concerned and there was an agreement that had been reached between the former Government of the Republic, the Socialist Party, and the Regional Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u358	You're lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u359	This was agreed and what we have always said is that funding to the University of the Azores should result in a partnership agreement between the University of the Azores, the Government of the Republic and the regional government. What did the Government of the Republic assume, in meeting with the University of the Azores? It has assumed that this agreement is to be fulfilled, within the framework of the new model of funding for higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u360	It should have been by now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u361	And what have we done, sir? In the current State budget, which seems to me that you have not read...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u362	Li, li!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u363	But he voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u364	So, time? Oh, my God! They must have a different time zone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u365	I'm done now, Madam President. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is envisaged in the Budget that the University of the Azores will have its agreement made by partnership between the Government of the Republic, the University of the Azores and the Regional Government. There is a very clear difference between us and you: you speak, we make it happen! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u366	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have run out of point five on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u367	We've run out of time, and in what way, it's been a minute of time! [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u368	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we understand each other: requests for speech or clarification on any other type of intervention must be made when the last speaker is speaking, before anyone is presiding, say that we conclude this item on the agenda. The Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group was asked if it wanted to use time and said no. Therefore, any other expression of will is now extemporaneous, because we have already said that point five was concluded. We will then move on to point six, which consists of the general discussion of Bill No. 231 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the framework law on the allocation of the population category. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u369	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this schedule we returned to a diploma that, in the past legislature, we had the opportunity to discuss in plenary and which, as a result of the dissolution, expired without having had the conclusion of its legislative procedure. contrary to what many may think, it is not a matter that concerns the administrative organization. what is really not about creating categories or changing the way local authorities organize themselves, but it is still a matter of relevance and impact with regard to local identity, self-esteem of communities and populations, and also the recognition of the historical evolution that these peoples have with the passing of time and with the development, the dimension, the growth of these population clusters or population clusters in general. It is therefore a movement that, going towards local aspirations, has roots, even curiously, very intense in democratic Portugal. If we follow the history of the uplifting of towns and cities we find that throughout the dictatorship there are rare situations like these and that it was, in fact, the transition to democracy that the local momentum and the initiatives that depart from the communities have led to that more than 370 towns and 106 cities have recognized their status and has taken place this elevation. The law regulating this matter, which established criteria for the allocation of the category of town or city, was, in a way perhaps hasty—it would not say fast, because I want to use an euphemism that is not excessive, but rather cautiously—, repealed in 2012 when the reform of the parish was done. This was in the same diploma regulating the creation and extinction of parish churches and, with the revocation of the diploma, the regime of raising towns to towns and villages was also revoked. What does that mean? It means that without objective criteria contained in the law, any population can legitimately aspire to initiate a legislative procedure. It seems to us more cautious to have laid down clear criteria in the law that allow this identification of when this title — honorific, if we want, or symbolic — is attributed to the peoples. So what we bring here again is the updating of the 1982 diploma criteria — he himself marginally updated what came from the previous administrative code —, resonating a regime with updated and clearer rules. in this context, what is proposed is the continuation of recognition, obviously, of what results from the Constitution. This can only be done by legislative act, either by law of the Republic or by regional legislative decree, in the case of autonomous regions. These recognitions should be based on objective criteria that, on the one hand, look at the size of the population, but on the other, they also take into account the criteria that show the growth and life of these localities. In addition, they should receive important contributions which, in the autonomous regions, for example, their regional legislative decrees have either automatically consecrated or recognized the quality of a village to all places which, throughout their history, either by letter of particular, or by reason of another cause which led them to be headquarters, had a different legal status than they have today. Therefore, looking at the criteria of the law of 1982, and in view of the equipment for collective use, the equipment relevant to cultural, social life, for the very use of the green and heritage spaces that exist in each territory, what we propose is its updating, not exempting, as also said, an update of the relevant values at population level, providing as 3000 the minimum number of voters for raising to the category of town and 7500 for raising to the category of city. None of this can, of course, be done without the intervention of the local organs. Whether the initiative is parliamentary and in which it is important to hear the position of the local authorities involved, it is also possible to be themselves, through their deliberative assemblies, to take the initiative and to propose to the Assembly of the Republic or to the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions the elevation to towns or cities. This possibility democratizes the procedure and also helps, in one matter, to say it, eminently symbolic, to create strengthened links between national institutions and local institutions, not losing sight of it, of course, — perhaps the cautions that the law should not be laid off — that it is a matter which can be politically capitalised, at times close to electoral acts. For this reason, it is of the utmost caution that the inhibition of the presentation of initiatives to raise towns or cities in the months preceding the realization of authentic electoral acts is maintained in order to ensure that, indeed, there is some debate that will allow it to be done and that it is quite far from the process and the moment when there are indigenous electoral processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u370	That thing they didn't do!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u371	Therefore, it is necessary to maintain this caution and this departure either with regard to the creation or the extinction of strawberries. This was something that in the past has brought together a broad consensus in the House, but it is still desirable that the hearings that have not been held in the past, possibly involving the Portuguese Academy of History and those who, in addition to the authorities and their representative associations, would like to participate, such as the Directorate-General of Local Authorities—which also has a role in the municipal Herald, who has some connection with this—or even the Lisbon Academy of Sciences, so that they can contribute to renew a regime that I think is missing. It is not absolutely an indispensable stone in our legal order, it has a bearing on the life of the collectives who aspire to be able to see their status and their evolution recognized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u372	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u373	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The allocation of the category of town or city has no impact on the administrative organization, the management of the city or the financing. It has only a symbolic load for the populations and even this is very scarce today. We have headquarters of great municipalities like Sintra and Cascais that remain like towns and, at the same time, we have a joint president, in Matosinhos, who governs two cities! We're talking about a board president who rules two cities. Portugal has 159 cities. The United Kingdom, with six times more population than we, has 76. If we used the UK criteria to determine the number of our cities, we would have 10 or 15 cities in the whole country. This bill, which does not differ much from what already existed, allows a population to be called from the city without having a library, without having a fire corporation, without having a infantry or even public transport. Having this classification lost all its meaning, even the symbolic meaning, we will not oppose a village if it wants to be called city or village, if it understands it, even if it is only to make a tourist laugh when the guide tells you that that village, without firefighters, without infantry, without public transport, is called « city» in Portugal. Given the trivialization of the urban and city terms and the non-existent practical impact, we will respect the will of the people to want to identify their population as well as understand them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u374	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u375	We will not oppose this, but I would like to make clear the absolute banalization that the terms 'village' and 'city' have in the country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u376	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u377	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, there is a question I have to disagree with. This is because, recently, a number of legal experts, particularly in the case of indigenous law, have said precisely the opposite: that the existence of a framework law is important, even in the weight of the state machine, in particular, avoiding that certain localities may be raised to municipalities. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Therefore, it is not just a tourist issue, nor a minor issue. Perhaps that was not what I wanted to say, but I would just like to clarify that there is indeed a trend towards the creation of new municipalities in our country where the framework law can indeed be favourable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u378	That's not what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u379	Mr President, I did not interrupt you, I am just commenting on what you just said and the perception of what we were hearing. During the right-wing government, PSD / CDS, with a logic of rule and framework, this possibility ended up in fact simply being revoked, falling to the opposite extreme without a clear understanding of the rationality of this option or the alternative mechanism itself. The proposal that is brought to us by the PS, in our view, is an improved version of the legislation that previously existed. It has some positive aspects, in particular the improvement of the existing procedure and the safeguarding of the will of the towns to remain as such, especially in identity or historical matters which can justify it. However, it seems to us that, in particular, there is a process that needs to be done, particularly with regard to benchmarks. We hope that there will be an opening by the PS Parliamentary Group to work on this in particular, because this issue needs to be clarified, in particular with regard to the special mechanisms that enable municipalities and citizens and citizens to bring to Parliament their will to transform the population into towns or cities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u380	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u381	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having no impact on their administrative organization, on the management of the city, for which what counts is to be a parish or a council, the truth is that the allocation of the honorific category of the town or city has symbolic relevance to the population. Since 2012, as mentioned above, the repeal of the legal regime of the parish meant that we no longer have clear objective criteria to decide on the allocation of these categories to the villages. The Socialist Party comes, with this project, to respond to a normative vacuum and update the criteria that contained the law that was repealed and that came from the 80s. The existence of this list of criteria is reasonable, it is relevant and also seems reasonable to define clearly the procedures for granting the category of town or city and establish a series of safeguards for the auscultation of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and of civil society. in these terms, we have nothing to oppose this bill and we wish that, in the specialty, if it can eventually enrich, as has already been said, and improve the diploma. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u382	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u383	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is not a mere amendment, which, after all, brings nothing new, as Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto says. This is an amendment which can determine the return to the origins, traditions, the principle of municipalism and even the defense of the history of our population and the culture we have. I also realized the embarrassment of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, who at first said, and soon saved, « attention that this is not an amendment to the law of local authorities », recognizing, by his legal competence, the trick they did last week, when they had not consulted either the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities or the ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias ), that in this case it would not be mandatory to consult. I would like to make a parenthesis here to regret that the head of the PS parliamentary bench is not here, despite all the concern and offense with which it has just recently reminded, when it has failed to respect our bench—we have already talked about the New State, but we were not talking about it, it was the Socialist Party's bench—some dictatorial ticks, which we do not admit, nor accept, and we hope that the television cameras have recorded their gestures and the way they did. We know that you are very nervous about Pedro Nuno Santos, because this honourable Member, when he comes into office, will certainly take him out of there and, therefore, is so worried. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In the law of the peoples, however, we consider — and that it is clear now, we agree with the framework law — that, in the way the law is written, the criteria must be very well defined. Otherwise, what we are doing is clearly the law of gender identity of the parish and the villages: the population now "sit down the city" and there it goes out there. But then there is not, in particular, the need to have two thirds of the requirements, as envisaged, may indeed bring some disappointments over time. I speak, for example, in a specific case, which has to do with a council, to perceive the pressure of the Socialist Party : Odivelas. This city has come out of the municipality of Loures and, after more than 20 years, it still has no autonomy in basic sanitation, urban cleaning, it does not even have a hospital that can satisfy its needs. Therefore, where we consider that there must be a clear intervention—and the Socialist Party, with an absolute majority, has the opportunity to do so—is in defining the criteria of what a town or city has to have, but that, when they do not, the government is responsible. We can't keep telling people: "Look, your population is now a city, but it's a city that has no services, it's a city that has no transportation, it's a city that has no health center, it's a city that has no hospitals, it's a city that has no volunteer firefighters. Do not keep on seeking. ” And we wouldn't need to go far from Lisbon to realize that we can't impose a decision that, soon, makes any town with a central café and a pharmacy have the right to be a city. We have to have some good sense. Obviously, I'm overreacting, but we have to have some good sense in the way this has to be done. I will give you a concrete example: the Union of Freguesias de Santa Iria da Azóia, São João da Schola and Bobadela have 44,453 inhabitants, however, they have no services, they have no firefighters, they have no hospital service. If it were a municipality it would be 36. the largest municipality in this country, but has absolutely no infrastructure to be city. Therefore, in addition to the hearing, which I find urgent, to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, to the National Association of Freguesias, and to involve themselves in fact all entities that may have an important role in this resolution, it is important that the Government be obliged to have, in fact, preponderance in the lives of people and that people benefit from it. It's just that living in a ghost city that has no services, no transportation to go to the county next door, no one wants. We believe that the framework law should, in general, pass, and that we will have many proposals to make in this field. Let us hope that, yes, at that time, we do not see the dictatorial tics that happened here today by the Socialist Party, and that we listen to the members of the party arriving, who were elected with the same legitimacy as those who gave the election to Pedro Nuno Santos. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u384	Mr Firmino Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u385	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The framework law on the allocation of the population category has already merited an extended consensus in this Chamber on 15 October 2021, only at that time the abstention of the Left Block, the CDS-PP and the Arrival. It is interesting to recall that this initiative resumes the Bill No. 891 / XIV / 2. the Socialist Party, which expired on 28 March 2022, with the end of the previous legislation. We understand that it is consensual that the elevation of a population to the category of village or city, being even a purely symbolic act, is revealed as a moment of union, very important for communities, even if there does not result in any rights or obligations, unless, eventually, those who are attached to heraldics. It is, however, a very distinct brand that adds important factors that clearly contribute to territorial and social cohesion, as well as reinforces the identity pride of communities, both in the dynamics of villages for towns and cities. It should be noted, however, that this increase does not result in any administrative or budgetary impact, in fact, as has already been mentioned here. It is worth recalling, however, the recent history, which was precisely in these assumptions that Law No. 11 / 82 of 2 June was approved, which originated, among other legislative initiatives, the Bill No. 143 of the CDS-PP, PSD and PPM, which, in turn, welcomed much of what was contained in the Bill No. 381 of 2 June, presented by the Government of the Democratic Alliance of Francisco Sá Carneiro and Freitas do Amaral. Now, as we know, Law No. 11 / 1982 of 2 June, which dealt mainly with the regime of the creation of the parish, was repealed in 2012 and was replaced by the new legal regime of the territorial territorial reorganization, but which did not have any provisions on the legal discipline of the raising of the villages to towns or cities, thus creating a normative void.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u386	There's a brutal lack in the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u387	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be noted that in 2012 the legal discipline on raising a village or city, after 30 years of approval, was manifestly out of date. Therefore, the question now and today is whether or not we should fill this legislative vacuum, whether or not it makes sense to create a framework law on the allocation of the population category. In a coherent way, and indeed following the reasons already mentioned, we understand that yes, which makes all the sense. It makes sense this honorable distinction that should be interpreted as the recognition of its evolution and the weight of its history, factors to which the community itself attributes just relevance, even because this distinction is seen as a strengthening and distinguishing of its identity. In fact, it is not by chance that we attend solemn and festive celebrations throughout the country of the day of the assignment of the category of village to a village or that of city to a village. The challenge therefore remains, and it is appropriate to recall the priest and writer António Vieira, who in this regard said: "We are what we do. In the days we do, we really exist. In the others, we just last. Do not keep on seeking. ” in this context, and in order to do so, we will follow this initiative, which, from our point of view, in addition to the opinions already given in the respective parliamentary committee, must be improved by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, by ANAFRE and by the contribution of all, in particular of the civil society and the Portuguese academy, being expected that, in the specialty, one can reach a law that updates the criteria for the classification of localities as city and city, thereby legitimizing the aspirations of the populations to see the evolution of their territory, as well as the identification marks, their equipment and local development. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u388	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u389	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not true that the title of a town or a city is merely honorific or symbolic, since the intelligibility of our own territory is a value in itself, because the coherence of the designations is a value in itself and because these titles carry with it a history, a culture and an interpretation that, to a large extent, passes by experts, by historians, by geographers, all those who are not here. Legalists, legislators and politicians have been 'eight to eighty' on this issue. There was a time when there was no change in designations, there was a time when there were always changes in designations, because it corresponded to the time when nothing could be given to the villages, so it was given a title of city—it was a way of people to be content —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u390	It doesn't matter! The criterion is the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u391	... then we went through a time when there was no change in designations either and let's see if we now reach the middle term. But, in order to achieve the medium term, there are two mistakes in which it is important not to fall. The first is not only to listen to politicians, including local politicians. I do not see here that geography departments are heard,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u392	Go on! ... that experts are heard in these designations and in this story, which counts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u393	The second error is, in a way, implicit in the draft law itself, when it says that it cannot be changed, to six months of the elections for the European Parliament, legislative or sovereign bodies and out there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u394	Continue, we have until 19 hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u395	... looks almost like the orthodox fasting calendar.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u396	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u397	There are so many days when you can't eat meat or fish or milk or cheese, that then, in the rest, we'll see if it's not a "sick, villainy" change of designations. I hope that in our specialty we can look at this very carefully, because if we do not, we will make mistakes from the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u398	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u399	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that there is currently no legislation to frame the criteria for raising villages to towns and cities, but it is also true that this does not mean that the Assembly of the Republic is without its competence, as our Constitution provides. We believe that there must be framework legislation, because of course it enables us to create criteria for taking these decisions, but the Assembly of the Republic has always had this competence, it has never been withdrawn and therefore has always been able to make these decisions. It should also be noted that this debate — in fact, this is not the first time that we have done so, it has already been said — because about 10 years ago, at the time, with the obsession on the part of the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u400	Taxation of the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u401	... of extinction of the parish, all legislation on these matters was repealed, including existing legislation on the criteria for raising villages to towns and cities. The goal of the PSD and CDS with the extinction of freguesis was perceived and what that meant. The trailer has also taken this matter, which is now recognized here as a symbolic aspect, which we also follow, but is not a minor aspect. We consider it to be an element of valuing peoples, peoples and recognition of their identity, their history, their culture, what is theirs, who identifies them and the differences of others. This is something that we believe must be valued and, therefore, we will also follow this initiative. There is another aspect that we also want to mention. In the criteria proposed by the Socialist Party for raising the village and for raising the city, various equipment and services are often listed. This is something I would like to point out, because what has happened in many places in our country — many churches and many municipalities — is the closure of public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u403	... against the will of the peoples, abandoning the populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u404	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u405	... leaving them unprotected by an imposition - now the school, or the health centre, or the post of the GNR ( National Republican Guard ), the post of the CTT ( Correios e Telecommunications de Portugal ), the station of the CTT and even the parish. In many of them, even the parish took! Therefore, this is also a question that must be present: the importance of equipment, the importance of public services and proximity. They are being used here, as proposed, to be a criterion of elevation to the town and the city, but many of them were removed, against the will of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u406	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u407	This cannot be an element in penalising the populations themselves, since it has had and has indeed had a negative translation where it happened. We believe, however, that it must also be an element in this discussion and therefore we wanted to mention it here. In conclusion, Madam President, I would just like to stress that in fact we recognize and appreciate the importance of these considerations for their communities, from raising the city or the city, when the people so understand, and what it means for their own identity, history and culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u408	The Bureau does not have any more entries, so we are going to stop. To that end, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u409	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the speeches and, in particular, the contributions that have already been made in the plenary session, noting that there is indeed an opening for us to revisit, in the specialty, many of these aspects, either with regard to the adequacy of the equipment to be included in the list or in the guarantee that it would indeed not be possible, in a scenario, perhaps somewhat exaggerated, as described by Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, without any equipment to be raised. The goal is not that. There must be some flexibility, which recognises that, even if the population of a particular locality may be below the criterion, if the historical and cultural experience and the presence of many equipments are very intense, this element can be surrounded—it is no longer the reverse, because, yes, it would make little sense. I also want to note that the decision is always parliamentary. Despite what we put here as criteria in this law, there will always have to be the approval of a legislative act — to Parliament here or to Parliament in the autonomous regions — that actually passes the town to the village or the town to the city. Perhaps, in this context, the proposal that Mr Rui Tavares here has left us interesting: not only do we listen, in the specialty, now, to the framework law, to other institutions that can help us to do this exercise, but we also do the hearing of them, in particular, as regards the process of raising towns and cities, i.e. to what extent it is that, in the academia world or even local cultural institutions, they can also help us to understand whether in that territory and in those communities, it makes sense, or not, to proceed to this elevation. Let us not forget that there is a huge diversity of realities in which this law will apply, from communities that are isolated or that are clearly geographically differentiated, to something that we have in the urban contexts of the large metropolitan areas, in which there is an almost indistinguishable urban mesh between themselves, and it may even be interesting for the very identity of these places to have this value factor of territories which, perhaps, are only separated from a different location by a collapse. Each situation will be a different situation. What is essential is that the legislator have a guide, an element of certainty, in order to be able to deal with these processes. Therefore, in our specialty, we have all the openness to all the suggestions and to all the contributions that we can collect from other entities, such as, indeed, — I now note, to conclude — we have already received from the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Freguess, which have given both of them a favorable view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u410	We're at the end of our agenda. For the usual ads, you have the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u411	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, two legislative initiatives : draft resolutions Nos 347 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, and 349 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which goes down to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-04.u412	The plenary session of tomorrow begins at 3 p.m. and the agenda is, as a single point, the discussion of the motion of Censorship No 2 / XV / 1. a (IL) — In defence of the institutions and by the end of the political, economic and social degradation to which the Government has led the country, followed by its vote. I wish everyone and everyone a good rest of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 34 minutes.]]
