ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We are in a position to begin our work, and I therefore declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are going to settle according to the benches so that your most peda heart and Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I shall announce the entry into the Bureau and admit by Mr President of the following initiatives: Proposal for a Law No 57 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 517 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 519 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 520 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; and Draft Resolution Nos 423 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 424 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 425 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 426 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 427 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 428 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 429 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 430 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 431 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 432 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 433 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Mr President, I am now reading an opinion from 14. the Commission, which must be voted on below: « At a meeting held on 1 February 2023, the following was observed: Extension of the suspension of the mandate and replacement of Members in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). Article 5, point ( d ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies, Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party ( PS ) Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos ( electoral circle of Aveiro ) by Rosa Maria Monteiro Venâncio ( electoral circle of Aveiro ), with effect from 3 February 2023, including until 4 July 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ” According to the opinion delivered by the Commission, the extension of the suspension of the mandate meets the legal requirements, and the Member concerned continues to be temporarily replaced.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u3	We shall vote on this opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. [[Subject to the vote, the absences of the NAP and L were approved unanimously.]] After reading the file, we will enter today's agenda, which consists of political statements from the various parliamentary groups, as well as from the single Member. To give the political declaration of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The Working Group - Amendments to Labour Legislation in the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda has recently concluded another meeting for the discussion of a wide and complex set of proposals. The content of the proposals, the content of the discussions and the indicative votes confirm that the Government and the Socialist Party do not have for the work an agenda worthy of the name of the package they present to us. It is an agenda shared with the PSD, of commitment to capital rather than to work,... [[PSD protests.]] ...more service to the interests of the employers and less in defense of workers. The proposals and positions of the Government and the PS, largely supported by the PSD, maintain the most serious standards of the Labour Code, prevent the replacement of stolen rights to workers—such as additional work compensation or compensation values—and pave the way for civilization advances. We highlight some positions that leave an indelible mark of programmatic convergence between PS and PSD in order to satisfy more the interests of the patronate, which is the strongest part, than to protect the rights of workers, always the most fragile part, since the genesis of the labor relationship. This is the case with the complaint, survival and expiry regime... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u5	The honourable Member has every reason to interrupt his speech. I would ask the services which also interrupt the counting of time, because, clearly, you do not have the conditions to which you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u6	Exactly! What a disrespect.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u7	Let's wait a little while until the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen can find the seats to sit down. [[Pause.]] Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the case with the complaint system, the survival and expiry of collective labour regulation instruments. This is a very powerful weapon, by which the employer can extort rights, condition negotiations, impose unfavourable conditions, in particular with regard to overtime and additional work, and even end collective bargaining, or at least prevent fair wage claims. Well, PS and PSD have dropped the PCP proposals with a view to revoking these standards. It is also the case of the presumption of acceptance of the dismissal decision, by accepting the payment of compensation, of an unfair standard in a state of democratic law. In fact, even in the face of the unfairness and illegality of their dismissal or the insufficiency of compensation, the dismissed worker, whose livelihood is reduced to a low and short-lived unemployment allowance, is dramatically forced not to challenge that decision in court. In other words, it is fatally obliged to renounce the constitutional right to appeal to the courts and to the comfort of justice. Once again, PS and PSD converge in the unworthy maintenance of this grill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u10	But it is also the case of reducing hours for 35 hours a week and 7 hours a day and restrictions on continuous work and shift work, limiting them to strictly necessary and justified situations, with guarantees of health protection and the right to articulate personal and family life with work, as proposed by the CFP. When technical and technological advances allow shorter working days, with gains for health and productivity, most PS / PSD perpetual old work intensification models. Even on Tuesday we were with Neves Corvo miners, subjected to days of more than 10 and up to 12 consecutive hours at the bottom of the mine, exposed to harmful concentrations of silica, inorganic arsenic, heavy metals, combustion particles, and whose features show a wear that summons the image of miners of the time of the Industrial Revolution. In the 21st century, Mrs. Members, the discussion of a worthy work agenda that deserves this title, with fair rights and wages, advises the weighted, responsible and consistent discussion of the proposals. But the PS : imposed a pace and time limits incompatible with such a design, making it difficult and even preventing hearings of entities whose specific contributions would be important to have listened individually; it maintained settled positions on its own proposals and on proposals from other parties; it conditional the autonomy of the Assembly of the Republic on commitments signed, in particular with the patronate; it resorted to blackmail, by invoking the need to comply with deadlines with the European Union, which the Government took without the consent of Parliament, in particular within the framework of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) ; it did not attempt to ease the threat of the precipitation of numerous collective conventions if this legislative process was not completed within a given time limit, when it well knows that it would have been sufficient to vote for the revocation of the expiry. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u11	The PCP, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, he has come to warn of the risks of an excessively short calendar and the consequences of an incomplete, imperfect and hasty discussion on such complex matters and an agenda that much remains due to dignity. But one thing may be true for the workers: the CFP will continue to fight for their rights and interests. That is, and it is with them, our commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u12	It's been 5 minutes for this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u13	The honourable Member has four requests for clarification and has informed the Bureau that he will respond in two sets of two. For the first of these requests for clarification, Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Alfredo Maia, after the replacement of rights initiated at the end of 2015, of the fight against work precariousness, of wage valorization achieved in recent years, we arrive here today with a Dignified Work Agenda, reflected in important changes to labour law that do not reflect a step back in the achievements achieved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u16	... amendments which have not withdrawn a right to workers,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... changes that make more and better rights for workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u17	You're already glad you didn't withdraw! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u18	This cannot be denied by you: you cannot deny the work and the effort that has been made, in the field of expertise, in order to achieve the necessary consensus, from the first day until today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u19	Now you're serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u20	The honourable Member and the bench of the Portuguese Communist Party may consider these amendments insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u21	Aren't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u22	For others consider that they are too much and others still consider that this is not the time. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] But the truth is that these changes bring about the densification of rights and the protection of workers. And, yes, Mr Alfredo Maia, these important amendments, through the new regulations that we will adopt tomorrow, will protect collective bargaining and contribute to its greater dynamisation. We will close this discussion tomorrow, as a specialist, which will bring Portuguese workers more and better rights through their densification, on a road started in 2015 and which has not interrupted, despite the most difficult phase of our lives, with an inexplicable political crisis. Having arrived here, we continue in this way of valuing wages, combating job insecurity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u23	It was enough of the expiry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u24	Mr. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u25	... and, yes, and so on, Mr President — these same amendments have densified rights, not withdrawing a single right to Portuguese workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u26	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I greet the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing to debate a topic of the greatest relevance, labour law. But, Mr. Alfredo Maia, let me remind you, in the first phase, that whoever made agreements with the Socialist Party was not the Democratic Social Party, it was the Portuguese Communist Party,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]] ... which, in 2015, made the management agreement and approved matters of labour law. Don't come here with political demagogy! Turning back to the question that brings us here... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, allow me to make my speech, because I did not interrupt the Communist Party either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u29	As the honourable Member said, this subject is being discussed in the field of expertise—we have discussed some of the articles of the proposed law on the Dignified Work Agenda, but let me say that, although there has been a real discussion of some subjects, there has been no deepening of important matters, there has been no maturation, there has been no approximation to the proposals put forward by the various political parties in this House. In many cases, despite the warnings of the PSD Parliamentary Group, incongruence and improvements in drafting have not been accepted by the Socialist Party. We continued to maintain incongruence, that we warned that they were there, and the Socialist Party, with its compressor roll, maintained and voted in favour, maintaining these incongruences in the legislation. [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] Yes, Mr. Francisco César, the Social Democratic Party has shown its concern with the approval of certain matters that have increased the conflict of labour law. As I have said, the impact and extent of the legislative amendments provided for in the Government's proposal has been a reform of the labour relations system, without having previously assessed the result of the amendments made before the Labour Code. For all this, it should deserve dialogue and consensus. However, this did not happen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the field of expertise, the opposite has happened. The Socialist Party has often chosen to exercise its power of majority, to reject proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u30	Exactly! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u31	... that allowed for positive discrimination in people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u33	And I remember, Mr. Francisco César, that the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u35	That's not true, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u36	It's true, it is! The Socialist Party has led to the expansion of telework to informal caregivers. Leadou, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u37	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u38	We put forward a proposal, but it was different!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u39	They submitted proposals to 25. The time, it's true. It is true, but let's see in particular what this is going to introduce. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Alfredo Maia whether or not he agrees with the statement that we are having a discussion in a hurry and on the knee,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u40	... and agreeing or not agreeing with the claim that many of these changes will increase labour conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u41	Thank you very much, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u42	Finally, I would like to ask whether or not I agree with the statement that workers' rights will be withdrawn. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u43	If they weren't in a hurry, we'd still be there in 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u44	If there had been no elections, we would have done it already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u45	I would ask the first rows of the so-called 'central block' to breathe, please. To reply, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u46	Mr President, Mr Fernando José, I must point out that the honourable Member has, of course, not expected anything else — the proposals and positions of the Socialist Party and the advances he says he is checking, but the truth is that there is no real progress,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u48	... when the Socialist Party, with the support of the PSD, perpetuates, in the Labour Code, the burdensome, castrative and limiting norms of fundamental rights and, recently, in that forum...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u49	Again? Oh, my God! I explained it to you a little while ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u50	Would you excuse me for finishing up, Your Honor? Will you excuse me for finishing up? A short time ago, I highlighted serious standards such as the unacceptable and unjust restriction of access to justice. By the way, the honourable Member says that there was no retreat. Well, I'm sorry to inform you what happened. I will give you an example:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u51	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u52	... the bonus up to 100 hours, concerning the compensation of the supplement, is an innovation that is to the detriment of the workers, as we well know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u53	What was in effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u54	Mrs Helga Correia, it is true that this process is "the horse mackerel" and, if you do not mind, the copyright is ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u56	“On the knee” — that’s what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u57	The CFP, since the beginning of this discussion, has drawn attention, and yet we reiterate it, to the unacceptable way in which this timetable has been imposed and how this methodology has been imposed for us — and is right — with the lack of depth of a set of matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u58	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u59	... some of which with imperfect wording and, above all, some of which with rules that will bring serious difficulties and damage to workers, but now also to companies. The CFP has rightly drawn attention to this issue. The honourable Member here invokes the need for dialogue, agreement and consensus. Well, as far as consensus is concerned, I'm sorry to inform you that...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u60	It depends on who you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u61	... there is no consensus, as far as we are concerned, with regard to a fundamental design in the defence of workers' rights: the break with this Labour Code, with its pattern of exploiting the interests of the employers and the degradation of workers' rights and interests. What is needed is indeed a rupture and, if we agree on it, then there will be consensus. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u62	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u63	Mr President, Mr Alfredo Maia, I would like to congratulate you on the political statement that the CFP brought here on this subject. I have heard the Socialist Party Member Mr Fernando José say that this agenda does not remove any rights. But is that the ambition of the Socialist Party? Is that the "powerful agenda", as Mr. Minister of Labour says, for the world of work? We didn't take any rights. This is essentially to maintain the imbalance framework that comes from the 2003 and 2009 Labour Code and even troika rules, which remain in the labour law, after this legislative intervention - let us see, it has not finished yet. Mr. Alfredo Maia pointed out some of the structural issues of working relations: the lapse of collective conventions, which remain, the non-integration of the most favourable treatment principle, but also one of the biggest spots that will remain in this reform, which is the maintenance of that absolutely abating norm, which prevents a worker from contesting an illegal dismissal if he has received compensation. This is a way of crushing the worker, depriving him of a right recognized by law. This is outrageous, indeed. This standard is one of the most revolting of the labour law and it was a norm that Antonio Guterres had withdrawn from the law and then returned in 2003 and remained so far. There are also great voids. For example, we have 800 000 employees per shift in Portugal who have no answers. The 35-hour proposal is on the way. The Socialist Party and the PSD did not agree to return at 35 hours. We need to remove these imbalances, restore fundamental principles of labour law and labour relations and respond to new realities, including digital work. With this I wanted to finish, because today in the European Parliament the European Directive on platform work and algorithmic transparency was adopted. It is a positive document, which had the favourable votes of the Left Block in the European Parliament, and I know that it also had the positive votes of the CFP in the European Parliament. This is also a central challenge: to ensure that the new technological ways of organizing work are not beyond labour law. from our point of view—and this was our intervention in this process too—, it is central to the fact that there is an answer to ensure work contracts for workers of the platforms, to ensure a job presumption and to ensure transparency of algorithmic management of the activity, because we know that algorithms are generalized today in the management of the work and need to be subject to labour law and labour control. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u64	You now have the floor to make a request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u65	Mr President, Mr Alfredo Maia, today we are talking about work and workers. It is easy to speak in rights, but it is also important to speak in duties, that you hear little talk in this House. We all talk about the rights of workers, we don't talk about the duties of workers. But I ask you: do you not think that, if there are to be duties, it is essential that there is employment and that there must be productivity if there is to be employment? Will you not agree that it is the private initiative that drives productivity in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u66	It's the workers! The workers are creating wealth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u67	I'm talking about boosting and not just the job itself. They consider the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, aren't bosses also workers? Don't come to me with the story that bosses are all bandits, because, as in everything, there is good and bad. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u68	To reply, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u69	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, thank you very much for your contributions to this debate. It is quite right that the so-called "powerful agenda" ultimately gives the power to those who have it and strengthens the power of those who have it, and those who have it are indeed the patronage. Indeed, there is no significant progress, or that, above all, allows for a positive balance of these advances, when, in fact, they are continued — as we both agree — serious standards and we are held hostage by the taxes of the Troikas. You are right about the issue of digital platforms. It is a new subject for which further discussion is still needed, and now in relation to subjects which have also been introduced the pretext of digital platforms, such as the use of artificial intelligence, in particular the tool of algorithms, in particular in the organization and management of work and, above all, the risks of being able to be used as a reasoning tool for dismissal of workers. in this sense, there is still a reflection that is necessary to deepen. Of course, those who are committed to the values of defending the right to work, workers and truly worthy work cannot steal from this discussion, which does not cease in this process — on the contrary, in several aspects, will have begun here or at least received an impulse here. Mr Jorge Galveias, Mr Galveias, the honourable Member is absolutely right, there has been no mention here of the duties of workers. I'm weird about this call of attention. In fact, this call for attention has not been mentioned, but it is strange that, as much as I remember — and I think I can reasonably understand the volume of the proposals here — there has not been a single proposal, a single one, in relation to the duties of workers. By the way, if you don't mind, Mr and Mr. Members, the list of duties of workers is set out in the Labour Code. The employer has not questioned him and, in addition, the disciplinary power, as we know, is always the boss, it is always the employer, it is always and exclusively, Mr. It is the company that has the power of management, it is the company that has the power to regulate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u70	Pay the orders!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u71	Sir, do you want me to answer or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u72	He's very nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u73	It is she who has the power to draw up its internal regulations, etc. So this is where we're staying. There's no need to say anything else. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u74	To give the political statement on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The end of the votes on the Dignified Work Agenda was announced for December and the Agenda was to enter into force in January, but still this week, the Socialist Party came up with new proposals on issues that had never been debated and with an attempt to reopen up to issues that were already decided. He has now again shown about the rights of workers at the end of the contract, a permanent vulnerability to the lobby of the powerful, the interests of the bosses, a confusion, a disorientation, a zigzag made of inconsistencies. The last episode was that of yesterday, about the termination of the worker's claims when the contract ends. The Block had a very important, far-reaching proposal that was approved by the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party about a month ago. Last Friday, the President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal), the representative of the bosses, wrote a letter and threw himself on the proposal of the Left Block. The PSD went to the working group this week, and presented a shameful proposal, a real barbarity, which was to say that, in the presence of the notary, the worker could already abdicate his rights. And the PS, in the working group, goes behind the PSD and CIP, to completely cancel and empty what was already approved before. In less than 24 hours, the turn-face was 360 degrees and the Socialist Party has already retreated in its own retreat, reiterating the position that this abdication of rights should not be allowed. Now, this is not the first time we've seen these numbers. The Dignified Work Agenda itself had a version in October 2021, published in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment, and then following the elections, when the Socialist Party Government, with an absolute majority, presented the new bill, it had already been subject to an employer vacuum cleaner who had eliminated a dozen standards. The case became loaded when the Minister of Labour, here in plenary, presented as another powerful measure of his agenda a measure that was no longer on the agenda. Didn't she know she'd fallen? So if the Minister didn't know, who did? Would the CIP know that this measure was no longer in the proposal? In the face of the embarrassment, Minister Mariana Vieira da Silva said that she was going to present these issues of combating precariousness, in an amendment to the public contract code, trying to compose the trick. On the platforms, the Socialist Party had four different proposals in this process. The first was presented in the initial version of the Dignified Work Agenda in October 2021, and replicated the presumption of « labour » proposed in the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which had an extensive series of indications to facilitate the recognition of the work contract with digital platforms and which did not provide for any figure of the intermediary, in fact, as does not provide for the proposed directive adopted today in the European Parliament. In June 2022, when he submitted the new proposal of the Dignified Work Agenda in Parliament, the Government began to have a second proposal, already different, in which he disfigured the indications of 'working' initially envisaged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u76	It's called dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u77	... deleted and rewritten the original proposal and introduced in this proposal, for the gift of multinationals, the figure of the intermediary. In September 2022, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group submitted a proposal for an amendment to the second proposal of the Government, which, while maintaining the intermediary, partially improved the evidence and introduced intermediate responsibility between intermediate operator and platforms. And after an intense debate on the sound complaints that the Bloc made here, of having pointed out the flagrant contradictions between the socialist positions in the European Parliament, the Government in the European Council and the national positions, the Socialist Party finally delivered a new proposal to the fourth version in mid-December, the fourth proposal on the same subject, in which it mitigated the presence of the intermediary, stressing that the employment relationship would, in principle, be with the platform and clarifying that, if the latter claimed to have an intermediary, it would have to be a court to decide what the employer was after all. In collective redundancies, new novel. The compensations had, as it is known, the value of 30 days per year worked. The troika came, cut to 20, the right was beyond the troika in 2013, and cut to 12 days each year. at that time, the Socialist Party torn the clothes in Parliament and said: "It is unacceptable, it cannot be cut apart from the court that was made, it has to stay within 20 days. » We arrived in 2023 and not only did we continue the 30 days before the Troika nor did the Socialist Party resume 20 days, as it defended when this change was made in 2013, rising from 12 to 14. But contrary to its initial proposal here in Parliament, in which the increase from 12 to 14 days, for each year worked on the value of redundancies, had retroactive effect in 2014, the PS withdrew again, presenting a second proposal to correct the proposal of its own parliamentary group and changing the application over time. Why? Because there was a protest from the employers' associations and the CIP came back to the newspapers saying: "It can't be! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Minister of Labour echoes the proposal by Antonio Saraiva, the President of the CIP, the representative of the bosses, and announces in the newspapers that the PS will change the proposal it has already delivered here. The Socialist Party members then changed the proposal and with the PSD approved a transitional standard which in practice completely mitigates the effects of this amendment, which was already ridiculous, from 12 to 14, on the value of compensation. One more concession to employers' confederations, which makes the effect of a change that was already minimal even more residual. It is not yet time for us to make a final assessment of the labour legislation process, but the Socialist Party chose to maintain, essentially, a picture of imbalance that came from 2003, 2009 and the troika. There are changes, there are positive standards, but there is no orientation, there is a path, it is changing according to the pressures that exist, it does not have a real, solid recovery project consistent with workers' rights. As for the positive standards, we still do not know how many of them will survive these permanent changes that can still be made until the end of the process. There's something we know, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party : we do not respect the work worthy of obeying the CIP! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u78	Mr President, three of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u79	In two blocks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u80	All right, sir, in two blocks. The first request for clarification belongs to Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u81	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, I welcome you and congratulate you on your intervention, in particular your reference to the real surveillance that the employers and their associations have on the content of the work of our Working Group on the Dignified Work Agenda, especially when, by chance, some rules are adopted which are understood to be appealing to their interests, interests that are, in fact, zealous guardians of the PS and PSD. Mrs Helga Correia, I would like to draw your attention to the reference you made to the supposed agreements between the PS and the PCP, because what actually happens is that the active convergence that exists is between the PS and the PSD, which are a central bloc in the defence of employers' interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u83	Mr Soeiro, taking into account your comments on the surveillance and pressure exerted by the employer on our work, I ask you what it is necessary to do in order to achieve the rupture with the right-wing policy also in the field of work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u84	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u85	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating you and Mr José Soeiro on the subject you have brought here. Mr President, I should like to begin very frankly: the PSD is presenting a good proposal that improves this legislation, which is in practice weak, is bad — as you said — in particular on this issue of abdicative remission, which is a great word, which basically allows workers to use the fruit of their work to negotiate a better agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u87	The PSD presents a proposal for workers to keep the fruit of their work and the PS corrected their position and came to meet the PSD position. Mr Deputy, in all this, would you like to criticize the PSD just one thing: are you jealous of the PS with the PSD? Mr. Deputy, we don't want anything with the Socialist Party! Don't worry! You can continue to focus on your marriage with the Socialist Party, and the PCP goes through the same table. The Social Democratic Party looks at this legislation and looks at your positions as a clear and obvious attack on workers' freedom...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u89	...and the freedom of entrepreneurs. And that freedom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in that which is your ideology, there is no, but in that which is the vision of a developed country, it is essential. Mr President, there is a fundamental question that we also wanted to focus on and which has to do with the question of platforms, as mentioned here. Now, in practice, what we've verified from the Socialist Party is that it's a party that's out of play, it's completely out of play. I mean, the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party presented a law which at European level has a leadership, but here they did not know which direction they should take, so on a certain day Mr António Costa came and said « Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, you are going the wrong way' and then you had to correct it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u91	In practical terms, what we now have on the side of the Socialist Party is a law that obliges workers to follow your direction. There can no longer be a worker on a platform who performs part-time work, he is obliged to perform full-time work, he is obliged to have a contract of work and, more than that, it has proved, only and simply, that the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), this whole time, has never monitored the labor links between the platforms and the workers. So what we have is a lazy government in relation to the work we should have done, is a lazy government in relation to the norm. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have so far is the result of legislation that at work is lazy legislation. However, this country is not for lazy, it is for workers, it is for entrepreneurs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u93	... is to make the country manage to raise wages and that the workers can earn more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u94	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u95	With your way, we're only going to have one result, which is a poorer country. But that's not our way, it's yours, yours, the PCP and the Left Block. They exclude us from this, they marry at ease, because the PSD does not make noise at it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u96	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u97	Mr President, Mr Nuno Carvalho, did the PSD join the Socialist Party in the working group and, as I said, do you know how many times the PSD voted with the Socialist Party to lead left-wing proposals? It was 111 times. I repeat, 111 times! And to suck what? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] To lead workers' rights by shift, plunged by PSD and PS. To lower the change of the rules on lay-offs, plunged by PSD and PS. To plump 35 hours as a normal weekly period of work, plunged by PSD and PS. In order to lead the payment of parental leave to 100 %, because, as you know, from 120 days onwards, it is not paid 100 %, in fact, there was a proposal and the PSD joined the Socialist Party to bring this proposal down. And to plumbar up to the extension of the license for caregivers, because there is a new five-day license and we proposed to extend to 30 days, but the PSD joined the PS to lead it. This is a wedding! As for the replacement of 25 holiday days, it was the PSD that joined the PS to lead this replacement, or the replacement of the value of extraordinary work, or compensatory rest. Do you want me to follow the examples? I told them, Mr. Deputies, I told them. Repeat, it was 111! I don't know what it's gonna be tomorrow, because tomorrow at 9 o'clock in the morning we continue, but so far it was 111. On the platforms, it made a big mess. There is a contract of work, there is the qualification of that relationship of work as a subordinate work relationship and, therefore, to which a contract corresponds has nothing to do with whether it is part-time or if it is not part-time, it has nothing to do with it, but on that we will then deepen the discussion. Mr. Alfredo Maia asked me what needs to be done to rebalance working relations, collective working relations. I believe that we agree with the idea that it is necessary to withdraw the rules from the troika of the labour law, that it is necessary to give a boost to collective bargaining, in particular by taking up, in full, the principle of the most favourable treatment and by making a collective convention happen only another convention, because this is a fundamental element of the imbalance between trade unions and employers. And, of course, in addition to changing the law, we need to have more strength from the workers, more capacity to intervene from the unions, more rights to the unions. In fact, an important standard that we recognize is the one that allows unions to intervene in companies where there are no trade unions, a concern that the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) has been putting on the table for many years and that it is important that it has been answered. Therefore, we need this union force and to organize the new segments of the working class, because we know that one of the most brutal forms of precariousness is the exclusion of growing parts of the working class, from the framework itself as workers, pretending that they are individual entrepreneurs, who are not precarious, who are self-employed, when they are actually workers who need rights, who need labour law, who need to be framed by labour law, who need to be defended by trade union organizations. Now, I believe that this is a huge challenge that goes through Parliament, but it also goes through all the work of rebuilding the workers' movement that we need to do to make it stronger. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u98	Mr Sérgio Monte, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, in fact, I have a question to ask you, but also a thank you and possibly a comment. The question is simple: having taken part in this whole process of the dignified work agenda, I would like to know if you think this document adds rights or takes rights to workers and whether or not it recognizes that this document represents a reversal of the withdrawal of rights which unfortunately happened in a very recent past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u100	Thank you for your speech, for your words. For those who sometimes try to get the idea that the Socialist Party uses the compressor roll of the majority to approve their proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u101	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u102	...there is no better description of a negotiation process than saying that the PS has been in zigzags, which has back-faces, which have back-backs and advances, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The negotiating process is precisely this. It's moving forward, it's going back, it's giving up.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u103	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u104	It's a zigging compressor roll!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u105	Therefore, you have exemplified that of the compressor roller is not true. On the other hand, with regard to the regulation of work on platforms, the Left Block knows — and can tell the truth — that we have put forward a number of proposals to meet yours. Therefore, this situation represents a negotiation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u106	It's just hearts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u107	By the way, I also want to say something about expiry. There is a profound change in the expiry regime — deep! — because the PS felt the need to change. But it is not entirely correct to attribute the vicissitudes of collective bargaining only to expiry. I recall that expiry was implemented in 2003 and that in 2008 we had one of the best years of collective bargaining in the country. I can tell you that almost half of the workers on behalf of others were, in those years, covered by revisions of the employment contracts that applied to them. After four or five years, in 2013 the number declined dramatically from almost 2 million to 200 000. What happened? Was it expiry? Don't! Unfortunately, it was the financial ransom we had in the country and it was the intervention of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u108	Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u109	By the way, I also want to tell you that the PS is not looking for anyone to marry, we are already married to the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u110	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u111	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Monte, I would like to thank the question. Mr President, as Mr Fernando José has already said, says that this proposal does not remove rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u112	Add!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u113	What the honourable Member said was 'This proposal does not remove rights'. [[PS protests.]] The question I ask is whether this should be the project from the left to the world of work, especially in a context where the world of work comes from nothing. This context was born from legislative interventions that totally disbalanced it, which disbalanced the collective working relations to the point of leaving the unions, in many contexts, particularly in the negotiation, completely exaggerated. Humblying standards of workers have been introduced into the law, which not only devalue their work from an economic point of view, such as cutting extra hours or withdrawing holidays, but which devalue them as persons, which devalue the person of the worker in his rights, such as the question of renouncing the rights to credits or the impossibility of contesting a dismissal if the compensation has already been received.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u114	But then there's progress!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u115	The question is this: we look at the world of work and, in the face of huge imbalance, what we need to do is reverse this imbalance, withdrawing the rules of the troika, rebuilding the collective bargaining. It is not just that we are happy because we do not withdraw rights. The Left Block recognises, of course — and this is public — that there were rules that we see as positive, in particular those proposed by the Left Block as regards the obligation to fix expenditure on telework, on the regulation of work on platforms, on algorithmic transparency or on the prohibition of this resignation of workers to their credits. The point is that, even in these advances, you describe the expression of a negotiating process. Is it a negotiation process with whom?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u116	With you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u117	It is because the advances and setbacks of the Socialist Party are at the pace of pressure, which do not happen in this Parliament but happen by the bosses and the CIP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u118	That's true there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u119	The question, then, is whether the Socialist Party is leading this political process with an idea, with an orientation, or whether it is zigging according to the pressure of the bosses. The episode that happened yesterday was quite significant. The President of the CIP writes a letter saying that the standards adopted by proposal of the Left Block were unacceptable. in this, the PSD opens the field to discuss and cancel the effect of this standard - it is said, with an absolutely miserable proposal - and the PS comes to say « then we will support the PSD proposal and cancel what we have done before ». Today, we have already turned this round again and we do not know — we hope that the 360s will remain in the 360s and that they will return to the previous position, that they will not give any more 180s — what will happen. With the Socialist Party, until washing the baskets you never know what will happen. Let's see, let's wait for the end of the trial. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u120	To make a political statement on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A socialist government is, by definition, an inclusive governance, which depends on its success in reducing poverty and combating exclusion, giving very particular attention to whom the misfortune of life has left behind. That is why economic growth is not enough for us as the one under our leadership — indeed, of the most robust in many decades. In 2022 we had one of the biggest economic growths there is, the largest in 35 years, and public debt is the lowest in 11 years. These data of great economic dynamism are very important and demonstrate confidence in the governance of the PS by economic operators. But for us this is not enough, because for PS it is essential to understand the economy and its growth as an instrument for development and cohesion. We are not only concerned about production but also about distribution. Through it, we want to combat inequalities, invest in public services and promote a policy of income and social support that ensures a network of protection for those who need the most, replacing individualism with the solidarity values of the community. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the path that the PS has made in these years of governance, correcting a heavy inheritance of structural inequalities that have worsened enormously during the years when the right has applied a formula of devaluation of income and cuts in social support, including policies aimed at the most vulnerable — children, the elderly, single-parent families — which have led to an exponential increase in poverty, exclusion and the conquest of inequalities that are passed from generation to generation. Fighting this state of things is very demanding and long-term. But we do so because of a question of political decency and coherence with our values, but also because of the preservation of social stability, because an unequal society is a sick society that is more easily at the mercy of extremisms and populism that runs our common foundations. Equality and solidarity, for the socialists, are synonymous with freedom and democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why public policies in the fight against poverty in Portugal are the heart of our governance and the results are in sight. The numbers of the INE (National Institute of Statistics ) that were released last week are truly historical and encourage us to follow the path that has brought us here. According to INE, the number of people at risk of poverty decreased by 2021, with a lower rate at two percentage points compared to the one we had in 2020. This is the greatest reduction in the rate of risk of poverty ever, even in a post-pandamy recovery phase. It is a decrease that covers all groups: children, adults of active age, elderly, retired, workers, unemployed. All segments and groups have seen the risk of poverty reduced, which is all the more significant if we think that in 2015 it was 26 %. That is, in six years, we have reduced a quarter of the people at risk of poverty in our country. The poverty and social exclusion rate, another indicator, also reached the lowest ever value in Portugal, with fewer than 300 000 people at risk of poverty or exclusion compared to 2021. When compared to 2015, when we started functions in this governance cycle, today we have less than 734 000 people in this situation, a 27 % reduction that makes us very proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not everything is done, as it is never in this area, as long as there is a citizen in poverty, but wherever we look, we see improvements and advances. The rate of inequality dropped by 9, 3 %, the rate of material deprivation dropped by 10, 9 % in 2015, to 5, 3 % in 2021, and we are meeting the path to achieving the 2030 strategy goals, aligned with the European Strategy for the European Pillar of Social Rights, seeking to reduce the poverty rate by 10 % and reduce to half child poverty and poor workers. These data are historical. These numbers are historical from the point of view of the collective capacity of poverty reduction in Portugal and reflect the result of public policies. None of this happens by chance. This is because of a number of PS policy options that have led to increased social benefits and to higher inflation by 2023 ; the creation of new social benefits, such as social benefits for inclusion or guarantee for children, which already benefit 155 000 children; the increase in family allowances; the continued increase in pensions; the increase in income in a general way, in particular the minimum wage; but also additional measures, such as free daycare, free school textbooks, the reduction of public transport fares, among many other measures that strengthen the muscle of our social state. This positive development compares with other phases of national political life in which the opposition to the right of today was then in governance and caused a historic increase in poverty, the risk of exclusion and inequality, when it cut wages, when it cut pensions and when on top of it still cut social support such as the Social Income of Insertion and the Solidary Complement for Older People, causing a historical increase of child poverty and poverty in the elderly, leading many families to poverty and despair. For us, poverty is not inevitable and we will continue to implement strong public policies aimed at strengthening the social state, for direct benefits and for valuing labour incomes, always protecting the most vulnerable. As long as there is a Portuguese in a situation of poverty or exclusion, there will be a Socialist Party policy to respond. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u122	In order to obtain clarification, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u123	In two blocks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u124	All right. The first request for clarification lies with the PSD Parliamentary Group, with Mrs Ofélia Ramos speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, allow me to tell you that your intervention is not a mere exercise of political propaganda. [[PSD applause.]] It is that Portuguese are increasingly poor, social inequalities worsen, and the middle class tends to disappear. This is the portrait of our country at the end of seven years of socialist governance and at the end of 20 years of socialist governance, over the last 27 years of our democracy. Despite the narrative created by the government, the truth is that Portugal has deviated from the poverty reduction trajectory that it has been doing since 2014. [[PS protests.]] At present, Portugal is the 8th European Union country with a higher risk of poverty and social exclusion. Today, almost half of the Portuguese population has incomes below the poverty threshold. Even with the social support paid by the State, 2 million Portuguese live below this threshold, that is, 20% of our population. Therefore, despite the government's political proclamations, the times we are living in are of social emergency, and it is because the worsening cost of living is leading many families to despair, because they have no money to pay their bills, to put food on the table, to pay their housing credits in the face of escalating interest rates. Therefore, the Government must fulfil its function as the principal guarantor of the social state. But it is not with immediate social support, it is not with social support that takes or does not reach the people who need the government to combat the structural poverty of our country. This is not the right way, because the outcome of socialist policies is in sight of all. If the Government says that it has as its priority the fight against poverty, how does it explain the lead of the PS in relation to the PSD proposal so that families can deduct in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) the charges with interest and capital of their housing credits up to the amount of €680, as in the past?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u127	How does the PS explain the lead of the PSD proposal that aimed to facilitate access to social benefits for inclusion, in the face of significant delays in issuing multi-purpose medical certificates? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u128	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor to request clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, it is necessary to have a large can to come to this House to make a political declaration about poverty, as the Socialist Party did, since socialism has been the great machine to make poor in Portugal. That is the great truth, a truth that you always want to hide. A newspaper that is free, particularly for the Socialist Party, reported last Saturday that 2, 6 million Portuguese live with less than 660 €. The speaker showed the news he mentioned. I would like to ask Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro if you think it is worth living with €660 per month. The honourable Member is well aware that he is not worthy and well knows that these numbers are proof of the outcome of the policies of the Socialist Party. You can come with the numbers you want and say what Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro said in the gallery, and you can set up the film in your own way, doing good socialist propaganda, as they have done, but,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u130	Statistics are dirty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u131	...then, explain to the Portuguese that, at the beginning of January, they can't pay the household income, they can't afford the light, they can't pay the credit for the housing, they can't pay the credit for their car or they can't pay the bank credit, where socialism is and where are these aids from socialism. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The rate of risk of poverty in children is 18, 5 % and in the elderly is 17 %. As regards the inability to keep the house warm, the rate is 17, 5 % when the average in the European Union is 6, 9 %. I repeat, this is the difference: the average in the European Union is 6, 9 % and in Portugal is 17, 5 %. Almost 30 % of Portuguese have no capacity to pay unexpected expenses. Again, 30 % of Portuguese are unable to pay if they have an unexpected expense. We are talking about 4 million people, such 4 million people who are at the threshold of poverty and that the Socialist Party wants to hide and say that there are no. What the reformers want is fair and uncut reforms, such as those you have done, particularly in this month of January. What the Portuguese want is to pay less taxes. What the Portuguese want is decent wages, which is what you have not done either. Your policies are clearly income and social support. Social benefits, social benefits, social benefits is what you want to impose on the Portuguese people, so that they are always bound to socialism. But what the Portuguese want is work, decent work, decent wages, that's what the Portuguese want. The question I am asking you, Mr, is what the PS is doing for, rather than social benefits, to do decent work for the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u132	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, you cannot look at poverty only through numbers on an Excel sheet. We cannot have a country that is worse, with families that are currently at arm's length with the increase in housing performances, with the increase in the value of the cabal of essential goods or even going cold in their houses, and come here to present the Country of Wonders. All these proposals, whether VAT (value added tax) of the cabaz of essential goods or even for support in the medication of elderly persons, were rejected by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. More, even at the housing level, we brought here a package of several measures, which ranged from the exemption of IMI (municipal property tax) for younger people to the deduction of interest for contracts concluded after 2011. What has the PS Parliamentary Group done? Once again, he rejected all these proposals. What is important to know, more than the figures that you have propagated, is what the Socialist Party is going to do, in fact, to meet the various proposals that have already been put forward, going to meet the Real Country. Mr President, at this time we are talking about Portugal is still facing a serious problem of energy poverty. The strategy to combat energy poverty has already been subject to public consultation and, to date, we do not know a consequence or result. I therefore ask the Socialist Party what it will do to effectively remove this issue from the energy poverty of the drawer. I remember that in the framework of the State budget, we have put forward several proposals to make the Efficiencies — pass redundancy — more efficient, which has nothing, and so far nothing has emerged. We cannot have a country that has always a face marked by poverty, but, as the numbers of its statistics say nothing negative about that, the honourable Members. Members come here to advertise instead of creating solutions for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u134	To reply, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that have been addressed to me. Starting with the PSD Member Ofélia Ramos, in fact, when the numbers do not matter, when the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen don't like numbers, statistics go through propaganda. What I described were, in part, numbers of the National Institute of Statistics. I know that the PSD has its own statistical institute and its own study offices, but, despite everything, I think that the PSD studies still do not exceed the INE studies. Let's see: if we analyze the category, we're talking about the greatest reduction of the poverty risk rate ever. This is not a matter of opinion, it is a matter of fact. The rate of poverty in children fell from 20, 4 % to 18, 5 %; in adults of active age, the rate fell from 17, 2 % to 15, 6 %; in the elderly, the rate fell from 20, 1 % to 17 %; in pensioners, it fell from 18 % to 14, 9 %; in workers, it fell from 11, 2 % to 10, 3 %; and in the unemployed from 46, 5 % to 43, 4 %. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] I know you miss the times when the Portuguese opened the pages of newspapers and had cuts of wages, had cuts of pensions, had cuts of social support, had cuts of income, but that's not what we have today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Deputy. So this is the way we have made. We know that the PSD does not follow us on this path, we know that the PSD does not like the increase in the minimum wage, does not like the increase in social benefits, does not like the increase in the subscription, does not like the complement Guarantee for Children, does not like the Solidary Supplement for Older People, does not like anything. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] But we will continue to support the Portuguese and reduce the risk of poverty, the poverty rate, as confirmed by INE, even though you don't like it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] After the PSD, he talked about it, and it made me remember the Azores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u136	There's Caesar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u137	... because, as we know, there is a programme that is being implemented in the Portuguese Republic, which is a political programme. We can see the extraordinary capabilities of the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative in the conduct of public policies to reduce poverty and improve the lives of Portuguese people. Well, you know...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u138	Who created poverty in the Azores? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u139	Now you're gonna have to listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u140	Now you have to listen! Listen carefully!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u141	Do you know what was the only region in the country where poverty increased, including the poverty risk rate and the exclusion rate? It was in the Azores, after the gentlemen were there to rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The data is public!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u142	And lowering the taxes for the rich!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u143	So we can already see what your results are, because the drop in taxes on the highest levels — that's what they did in the Azores — indirectly caused the increase in poverty and exclusion, since they cut social support and no longer have the capacity to carry out public policies because of arrive. [[CH protests.]] Then, Mr. Pedro Pinto, in his speech he referred to socialism, socialism — even seemed to be in your congress, but it is not, it is in the Assembly of the Republic —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u144	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u145	... and asked me what we have done, in particular, in the field of work. Look, I understand the arrival is a bit unsolicited, but we have a process going on a few months ago, in the specialty, on the dignified work agenda. in this debate, in the field of specialty, hundreds of proposals have already been submitted. Do you know how many we've had from arrive? Zero. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You do not participate in the Working Party on the Dignified Work Agenda, you have not submitted any proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u146	Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u147	The only thing you guys know how to do is noise! But the Portuguese don't want noise, they want results and they have results with the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u148	Can you live with €660? He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u149	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor as soon as possible. It is only to wait 10 seconds of breath and you can begin, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u150	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I have really heard you mention several numbers. I couldn't do the fact-check of everyone, but, before the questions, I wanted to do a fact-check 2. The first, on the decline of 730 000 people in poverty since 2015, just to say that this is false. [[Rice from IL.]] Antonio Costa had already said that a few days ago, and it's fake. [[Applause from the IL.]] This is because they are different indicators, different methodologies, one of the data is provisional, and it is already here that is false. The second point concerns its reference to the greatest ever reduction in the risk rate of poverty, and I ask you if you know what was the greatest ever rise. What's the biggest climb ever? I ask you if you know. It is that there was only the biggest drop ever because you managed to make the biggest climb with the pandemic as well. [[Applause from the IL.]] That's why, of course, it's the biggest drop, isn't it? That's easy! [[PS protests.]] That's pretty easy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u151	You have to read everything! Do you know where it's increased?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u152	I can also have this graph distributed, but to save paper, I'll show you here on your phone, and then I'll send you the Express article. The speaker displayed the article he mentioned. We have 4, 4 million people in poverty, or below the poverty threshold, 1, 7 million after social transfers. Another thing that you said — but I think it was too late — was that the goal was to reduce the rate by 10 %. It is not 10 %, it is up to 10 %. And we, at the current pace, are not going to do it, obviously, until 2030. So the first question is how... [[PS protests.]] It's doing the math. at the current rate, it does not reach 10 %. So what I ask you is: how does the PS think to speed up the reduction rate that has happened, to go up to 10% by 2030? Second question: Portugal is 2. the European Union country with more people living in poor housing conditions — one in every four houses. What does the PS also propose to reduce this number? Third, we are 4. the country with less purchasing power in the euro area. The Portuguese, this year, still above, lost even more purchasing power. But the Socialist Party, in relation to 2015 — as it has spoken about it — can charge more than EUR 30 billion in tax revenues and has, of course, managed to beat successive tax burden records during this period. And it does not lower the IRC (tax on the income of the public), does not make any structural decline of the IRS and does not even lower the VAT, for example, of energy, in a country where there are people dying of cold. So I ask the honourable Member why does the PS insist on this policy, on the economy of low wages and high taxes, and does not accept to lower these three taxes? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u153	The next request for clarification lies with Mr José Soeiro, on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u154	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, as we know, poverty is many dimensions and, as you know, numbers are always backward from reality, because, at the time they are produced, this moment has passed and there is always this hiatus. I would like to draw the attention of the Socialist Party and the honourable Member to an important statement by Dr. Sandra Araújo, who coordinates the National Strategy for Combating Poverty — he is from the Port, he certainly knows - well - and who said, a few days ago, that "it is not acceptable that work is not a solution enough not to be poor". Indeed, the reality of wage poverty is one of the most offensive, one of the most horrible dimensions of the phenomenon of poverty. The fact is that, with today's wages in Portugal, and with the governance of the Socialist Party, in the way it responds to inflation, Portuguese are losing purchasing power. Even the social consultation agreement that the PS made with the employers and UGT ( General Workers'Union ), of which it often speaks, defines a reference of 5, 1 %, which is far from inflation and is therefore guaranteed for impoverishment and is not even being respected by employers. In other words, wage compression, which is the current policy by the Socialist Party Government, is a policy of impoverishment. It is a policy of impoverishment and this is the drama, it is the mistake where our fundamental disagreement is based on the political choices of Antonio Costa and the Government of the Socialist Party. But there are other dimensions of this problem. He will certainly have seen in the newspapers the story of Amélia Ferreira, 66 years old, and his 41-year-old son, who has been living in a tent in Matosinhos for four months. They were cleared, tried to use the municipal housing, told them that there were no vacancies in the municipal housing and went to live in a tent. And this pensioner, Amélia Ferreira, this Portuguese citizen, said to the press: "I want nothing for free, I only ask a house that is within my incomes" — explains this person, whose pension is below 500 € and who finds no place to live or vacant. The problem of housing is a very serious problem, because there are no homes accessible to wages that are still losing purchasing power. And the housing crisis gets worse every day and is a factor of poverty and exclusion. Another family — a couple and three younger children — was also expelled and did not find a home. A worker from a parish board went to a shelter from the City Hall of Lisbon, because, with just over 700 € that earns wages, he cannot find a house. This situation is unsustainable. from our point of view, government policy does not give immediate answers to wages and home. What the government's policy is producing is not just impoverishment, it is also desperate. And at least that — that despair — should make the government realize that it is failing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u155	The last request for clarification belongs to Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u156	Mr President, I welcome Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the Socialist Party's welcome for the presentation of this issue and would perhaps begin by saying that, essentially, I agree that poverty is not an inevitable one. I have already expressed a fundamental disagreement with the honourable Member's initial reference, and I quote « those who have left the accident behind ». In fact, we need to be careful about generalizations, because it is not usually an accident that leaves people behind. It is actually an economic and social model based on low wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u158	... in the deeply unequal and unjust distribution of wealth, in the exploitation of workers and in the appropriation of the value generated by workers, which justifies, in fact, that many workers even work. What brings the debate is the INE data for the year 2021, but I am afraid that we will expect bad news for 2022 and 2023. In any case, compared to 2021, it should be noted that the data on poverty improve significantly, for which two essential factors have been met: the reduction in the number of unemployed persons and the end of wage cuts associated with the so-called simplified layoff regime. However, Mr President, only people with incomes up to €609 have seen their income increase, which is due to the increase in the national minimum wage, which, although insufficient, has not been accompanied in the same way by the remaining wages. On the other hand, despite the improvement in the labour market, labour poverty still reached 10, 3 % of workers and 43 % of the unemployed. And we should point out that these values are higher than those verified in 2019 — i.e. before the epidemic — respectively 9, 6 % and 40 %, 7 %. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, two questions must be asked: is it true that there is an increase in national wage in decent values and wages in general, as well as pensions and reforms, in order to prevent the massive loss of purchasing power and what is leading to real impoverishment?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u159	Mr Alfredo Maia, you are going to go far beyond yourself in your time, it's not usual.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. And finally: is it not urgent to change the economic and social model? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u161	To reply, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the speeches and the questions you have raised. Trying to follow the order and trying to respond, Mr. Bernardo Blanco began with the Liberal Initiative. The Liberal Initiative has normally solutions or proposals that are simple, that are easy and that are wrong for the generality of the problems — this was visible in England, when Mrs. Liz Truss applied your programme and put an end to pension funds and public debt —,... [[Rice from IL.]] ... but they're also a little predictable. And as they are predictable, see there, Mr. Member, I already knew that I was going to talk about this news from the Polygraph, pass the publicity you did.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u163	Did you know what I was going to talk about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u164	And I knew so much that I was going to talk about it, that I had to give you the answer to that news. That's what you say the Polygraph says it's not a lie, you have to scroll and go to the bottom of the story.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u165	It's there and I said, it's the indicators.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u166	It is in this news that the Polygraph says, and I quote: « This value[... ] is only reached in the new indicator “Europe 2030” and, we stress again, comparing the 2015 definitive value, registered in Eurostat, with the provisional value of 2022, registered in the INE ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u167	It's another indicator!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u168	Yeah, but nobody says the opposite. In fact, if we go around, as the Polygraph itself says, there is an inaccuracy. And you know what inaccuracy is? After all, the reduction is not 700 000, it is indeed 737 000, see there! It's still better than what we said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is more: now, just to close this matter, see there that the journalist concerned—then I send him the link —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u169	Send, send and read the text to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u170	... on 18 January 2022, making an assessment of a statement by the Prime Minister to an interview that he gave, I do not know where, he said: "The Prime Minister says that there are fewer than 400 000 Portuguese in situations of poverty or exclusion..." — at the time — and he asks whether it is true or false. For, following exactly the same methodological criterion, the same journalist says that this statement is true. Therefore, the statement is true and it is not worth entering this kind of debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u171	They can turn a fake into real!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u172	Now, what was really important—because they always talk about the reduction of taxes, they always talk about this kind of matter—was that the Liberal Initiative could take advantage of some of the minutes it has available to explain how it can reconcile the proposals it is making here, such as those made in the State Budget. I am referring, in particular, to the reduction to two steps of IRS, which leads to tax revenue losses of EUR 3 billion;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u173	It is a TAP (Portuguese Air Transport)!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u174	... a loss of IRS revenue of around 23 %. It is the UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) that says so, it is the INE that says so! [[IL protests.]] Therefore, you, in fact, always have these solutions, cannot present any concrete proposal for the country. With regard to the interventions and issues of the Left Block and the CFP, we essentially agree with what has been described here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u175	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u176	Poverty is multidimensional, has various characteristics and, for example, has the size of housing poverty or the rate of overcrowding. And once again, it is very important to compare what is being done on the continent with what is done by regions governed by the right. It is that the rate of overcrowding of the housing which the Liberal Initiative here also referred to in 2022 in the Azores increased from 11, 2 % to 13, 5 % ; because on the continent it dropped 1, 4 % to 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u177	About the Azores, talk to Caesar there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u178	Is there a way to go? There is, and it is much better than what is done by other political programmes, there is no doubt, because they have come to worsen the concrete life of people, also at housing level. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] With regard to other matters — and I believe that it is unequivocal, because it is unforgettable — we have made a path to reducing the poverty rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u179	Living with 600 € is reducing poverty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u180	... of valuing income, and this path, of course, has to continue over the coming years. That is why we were elected to rule. That is the answer we will continue to give to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u181	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. For a political declaration, Mr João Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Agriculture is one of the main pillars in Portuguese society; for PSD it is an integral part of our sovereignty. Unfortunately, agriculture in Portugal is going through one of the worst moments that there is memory, not because of the incapacity of the sector, not because of the incapacity of farmers, but because this is the worst Ministry of Agriculture ever. [[PSD applause.]] We say it, it is the associations and confederations that affirm it and it is the farmers who feel it every day. As Mr President of the Republic said this week, internal dissolution has reached worrying levels. The trapping of the appointment history for the office of the Ministry of Agriculture not only harms the sector as detrimental to the image of the government, but above all it contaminates and degrades democracy in Portugal. Thus we understand the inability, to date, to appoint someone who agrees to perform the duties of State Secretary in this Ministry. Allow me an analogy with football. When the results are systematically negative, when the team often changes players and continues to fail, when they try to hire and the players then refuse to wear the club shirt, when there is an almost unanimous dissatisfaction of the fans, this has a name: psychologically whipped. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u183	In other words, it has the consequence of changing trainers. [[PSD applause.]] from here I leave a message to Mr. Prime Minister, perhaps in a football language, understand which way you should take in the management of your team. Let us return to the important and noble role of the Secretary of State for Agriculture which at the moment in this government does not really exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u184	It's a reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u185	In addition to the technical requirement and high complexity, it is responsible for ensuring the proper implementation of Community funds, from the beginning of the PEPAC ( Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy ), which began in January 2023 with an appropriation of EUR 6, 5 billion to apply in seven years, to which the RPP's funds are added. It's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u186	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u187	... that requires good and careful programming and application. The world, the devastation this government has applied to the sector is not today. As long as the Minister for Agriculture has taken office, we do not yet know whether due to lack of political weight or any other reason, the Ministry has not ceased to lose competence. He lost the forests — protection he has always had — leaving such an important sector for the Portuguese economy and exports without productive relevance, without economic relevance and with the tragic abandonment of the rural world, with the consequences we all know of in the forest fires. He gave up fundamentalism and lost competence in the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ( DGAV ), questioning animal health, health and welfare. He is now preparing to lose the skills of regional agricultural management to another ministry that has nothing to do with agriculture. It is regrettable how one abandons and mistreats one sector in this way. The lack of strategy, lack of direction, lack of ambition and stubbornness are the endogenous characteristics that best identify the Minister of Agriculture; the same one that has lost all respect for the agents of the sector, as has been seen over the past few months and especially in recent demonstrations. More serious than having the sector against you is not recognizing the reason for valid and fair protests, it is not wanting to listen, it is deliberately punishing by political-party judgments. Never should the person responsible for the pasta of agriculture be on the side of a certain ignorance that we know exists, the same ones who think that milk comes from the packages, who think that whoever gives the oil are the bottles and that the meat is born in the stalk. The Minister of Agriculture has an obligation to be on the side of the producer and the duty to have the notion of what it is to produce on the basis of science, innovation and technology. This is how agriculture is done today in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, agriculture in Portugal has been losing competitiveness. Political incompetence is compromising our territory and our economy. It is compromising the potential of products of excellence that Portugal is capable of producing. It is overwhelming to see the destruction of a ministry. Farmers, these, have never failed the Portuguese, even at critical times like that of the pandemic. The rural world never stopped producing food for families, for schools, for hospitals. The Government of the Socialist Party cannot continue to fail with agriculture and farmers. When the time comes, or when the Portuguese want us, PSD, here we will be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u188	They signed up to ask for clarifications seven Mrs. Members, to whom, according to the Bureau, the honourable Member will first respond to a set of three and then to a set of four. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Moura, I greet you for bringing to this House a matter as important as Portugal's agriculture and food sovereignty. In fact, in order to use his word, we are living 'frequency' times in this country, with a fully incompetent Minister of Agriculture, so incompetent that in water resources for irrigation—which has already lost for the Ministry of the Environment too—he only enrolled the Algarve region in the PRR, as if only the Algarve region had water problems and hydrological efficiency in Portugal. He also lost the issues of animal welfare, small animals, to the Ministry of the Environment and lost the protection of forests. It is now known that the Secretary of State for Agriculture has extinguished, making a transfer of powers to the Secretary of State for Fisheries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u190	Extinct? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u191	... as if you were saying to farmers: 'Look, they are engaged in fishing, because agriculture does not really have a future in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” As you have pointed out, and very well, you have also extinguished the DRAPs (regional agricultural and fisheries directives). As many times as the PS comes to the text, it is true that the Council of Ministers has published that the competences of the DRAPs have been transferred to the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees). [[Protests from PS Francisco Rocha.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to go to the rural world, to deep Portugal, ask a farmer what is a CCDR, how is the president of a CCDR elected, who has seat in the CCDRs, and I assure you that no one will be able to answer, but all farmers know who is their regional director of agriculture, where is the DRAP and where they can go to get help. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is centralization and not decentralization, as you would like to see. This is centralisation and has a goal: to hand over the European funds and transfer the European agricultural funds to the CCDRs, so that they can be better controlled. Mr. João Moura, there are several events scheduled in Portugal; there have already been two major demonstrations of farmers, one in Mirandela, another in Castelo Branco ; now, in February, we will have major demonstrations...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u192	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u193	I shall conclude, Madam President. I said that we will have great demonstrations in the Ribatejo, in Portalegre, in the West, in Beja ; in March there will be a great demonstration in Lisbon. My question, Mr President, is this: at this time, after so much time we are asking for the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture, would you like to know if she does not agree that we now have to go after the Prime Minister? The honourable Member and his party abstained in our motion of censure to the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u195	... and I would like to ask you: if today a motion of censure was presented to the government, how would you and your bench vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u196	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who stick to their speaking time. To make a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u197	Mr President, Mr. João Moura, I would like to thank you from now on for the subject that brought us the debate, and there are some questions that we would like to ask you. First of all, even because you spoke about a future for agriculture — taking into account the concerns of the many million euros coming, not only for PEPAC, but also for the PRR, because it is more than EUR 6 billion, we all realize that the Minister of Agriculture "has a rotten finger" for appointments, taking into account this historical background, also calling into question the implementation of structural funds for the country. But the PSD, in particular in the State budget, voted against two measures that could help agriculture, both in the ecological transition that it has to do, and in food sovereignty. I am talking about support for the production of legumes. Even because of the context of war and inflation, it was essential that Portugal had a strategy for legumes and that we could support producers in this regard—but the PSD voted against. I am talking about research, for example, of alternatives to meat production, particularly vegetable meat, but the PSD voted against. There is no future for agriculture, Mr President, if we do not have a vision of the future and an ecological vision, including for the transition of animal welfare. The Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs has been able to prescribe more than 500 processes in relation to animal protection. Mr President, do you agree that there is a structural problem in the management of agriculture and that it is necessary to have another view, either for animal welfare or for production in our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u198	To make a request for clarification, Mr Francisco Rocha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u199	Mr President, Mr João Moura, as we had planned, on agriculture, nothing; on agricultural policy, nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u200	What? He's here now, isn't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u201	With regard to what really matters — which are the policies, which are the results that we can now present — Mr President, once again today, I have not said anything. And we understand why. If we are to look at the main policy instruments available to farmers and producers right now — for example, the PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) — you are completely on your side, and we understand why. Do you know why, Your Honor? It is that the implementation rate for the 2020 RDP is currently 78 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u202	That's terrible!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u203	We're almost starting the other one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u204	The commitment rate is 95 % and up to 2025 we will implement a 100 % implementation rate. Mr President, the worst moment of Portuguese agriculture was your previous government, which left a hole of EUR 700 million in the PDR. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That, yes, was one of the worst moments of Portuguese agriculture. Let me also say that, as far as water is concerned, this government has not stopped,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... this government has always been with farmers and producers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u205	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u206	With regard to the National Regadios Programme, you know — exactly why you did not say so — that there are currently 300 projects approved, in 18 districts, with 120 municipalities covered, in a total of 762 million euros. It is 230 000 ha of recreation that will be benefited, including new regades, rehabilitation of those already existing and also traditional regades.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u207	What's the question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u208	Mr João Moura, how can you say that the Ministry of Agriculture is not living a good time, how can you say it is the worst time, when all the indicators of exports in the agri-food complex say exactly the opposite? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have never had so many exports, never had so many open markets and never added more value to our products. [[CH protests.]] So, honourable Member, say there: where is the disgrace of the Ministry of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u209	He's on the street, in the demonstrations!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u210	It is not yet that the devil will appear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u211	In response to the three requests for clarification, Mr. João Moura, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u212	Mr President, if I may, I would begin by answering and thanking Mr Francisco Rocha for the questions he has put to me. Of course, I would like to reply to the first: where is the plight of the Ministry of Agriculture? You're at the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u213	All right! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u214	The plight of the Ministry of Agriculture is precisely in the Minister of Agriculture and in the decisions which it makes to the sector itself. [[PSD applause.]] And only because of the fact that we in Portugal have farmers and farm companies with capacity, technology and science, as I said there, in the pulpit, is that agriculture is not in a worse scenario today than it could be with this Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u215	Do public policies have anything to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u216	Let me tell you, Mr President, that I am glad that you have reminded me of some situations, from now on, of a series of hearings that we have been doing in this House on the state of agriculture, of associations which, still yesterday, in the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries, have told us that they are really concerned about PEPAC, whose regulations should have been produced by the end of the year, but which has not yet been known.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u217	They left 700 million euros of hole!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u218	This means that the sector is not knowing what it's going to do, and there's nothing worse for industry agents than not knowing the rules of the game. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u219	Allow me, too, to tell you a little bit about the regadion which, in the paper, over the past seven years, you have been systematically announcing, to 'announcing', to say and contradict. I will give you just one example, so that you know. I ask you to listen carefully. [[Let's hear it, let's hear it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u220	If the Socialist Party carried out some of the projects it has in hand—and had a long time to do so— Portugal could increase, estimatedly, 750 ha from its area of recreation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u221	You're gonna keep 'em all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u222	Do you know what this means, in agricultural terms, Mr? It means that, on average, if the productivity of 1 will go around €500 per year, we are losing revenues of €375 million per year. Therefore, the fact that they systematically go to study, to postpone, to put on papers, with studies and more studies, and never to carry out, is what it does. We are also losing revenue and competitiveness. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, in fact, we have a very different notion than agriculture, we have very different concepts. We can think of competitiveness and sustainable agriculture, environment-friendly agriculture, and then we converge on the concept. However, the vegetable meat you have spoken of, let me tell you, does not exist. Vegetable meat is a plant protein that must be baptized with this name and which is, in fact, important to our agrarian economy. However, what makes us differ is that we believe that animals also form part of human food, and that is a great difference that distinguishes us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u223	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u224	I shall conclude, Madam President, by telling Mr Pedro Frazão of the Czech Republic that, in fact, the challenge I launched from the pulpit, even with an ironic image of football, was precisely for Mr. Prime Minister, to take the measures considered necessary for the sector to finally change the course ahead. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u225	To make a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moura, I welcome him for the choice of the subject which he brings here, but I welcome, above all, the agricultural sector, which today occupies us, because in the last 10 years he has grown tremendously, and represents almost 8 % of GDP (gross domestic product), corresponding to 18 billion euros of production. It has internationalized itself as never before, exporting more than 7 billion euros, every year, to open and competitive markets, not to protected markets. It has rejuvenated, because there are more and more young people in agriculture, not enough, but it is taking that path. It has been modernized, increasingly using technology, and it is increasingly careful with the environment, both in the use of water and in the use of phytosanitary plants. Therefore, the agriculture sector has become what can be called a truly resilient sector, perhaps one of the most resilient in our economy, as proved during the recent pandemic. It is in this context that it becomes completely impossible to understand how it is systematically devalued—either from a political or technical point of view—by the Socialist Party, in its successive governments, in particular under the management of the current Minister, Maria do Céu Antunes. It is that the extinction of the Secretary of State for Agriculture is only the last, most visible and most disturbed of the decisions taken by this Minister, protected by this Prime Minister. We are, as has been mentioned here, at the beginning of February and still not aware of the general rules for the implementation of the CAP's Strategic Plan. It has been announced almost a week ago, but it has not yet been published. And I say more: when it is published, I suspect that it will not be known to farmers, because previously this information was shared by regional agricultural and fisheries departments, whose competences were transferred at the end of last year to the CCDRs. I am only surprised that this resolution of the Council of Ministers, which is going to be infamous, sets out: Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 123 / 2022 — which transfers tens and dozens of competences, not only in agriculture, is a regionalisation which is boundless without this Parliament's pronouncement. And, above all, in the case of agriculture, it will make hundreds, thousands of farmers remain without the support they have been able to make so far and without being able to inform themselves. Therefore, in this context, honourable Member, my question is the following: he did a football analogy, up there, of the rostrum, saying that there was a need for psychological whipping. I'll go further.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u227	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u228	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is that, exactly to go further, if the psychological whipping of resigning the coach, the Minister of Agriculture, does not work, is the club's own president, António Costa, who has to go to life. Are you or do you not agree? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u229	To make a request for clarification, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Moura, I would like to congratulate you on bringing up a subject that is quite current and worrying, which has to do with the difficulties that our farmers and national production are experiencing. In fact, of what I have said, there is one thing we agree with: we are very badly served in terms of agricultural policy. But if we do a serious, fair and honest reflection, we quickly come to the conclusion that either PS or PSD and CDS, basically with regard to the political options with regard to agriculture, it is all « flour of the same bag», and the worst of all is that it is with wheat that is not even national, wheat is imported, which further aggravates the situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u231	Calm down, João!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u232	Therefore, both PS and PSD have responsibilities in the destruction of agriculture and national production, and it is very easy to recognize it. In any case, I would even think that the honourable Member, speaking on the issue of agriculture, would bring to a political statement the problems of agriculture, would actually talk about the difficulties faced by farmers. But no word, there was not a single word about the difficulties in accessing the costs of production factors. Mr President, farmers are in the arm with the difficulties of drought, are in the arms with the difficulties related to speculation associated with increased cost of production factors, are in the arms with the consequences of war and sanctions, resulting in a 12 % loss of income, according to the information and data of the INE, and the honourable Member is here talking about the policy that the Minister is following, of the cases that Mrs Minister brought here. Of course, it is important that these cases be solved, that we do not devalue these situations, but what matters is whether or not we change policy, for a policy that responds to the difficulties of farmers. And I would like to ask you very quickly, honourable Member, about the following: where was the PSD when it was on the side of the end of the milk quotas? Where was the PSD when he was on the side of the release of the vineyard plantation? Where was the PSD when the PCP presented the proposed increase to 2000 € for the small farming regime? How was the PSD when the CFP presented, in the State budget, a proposal for a change in the public acquisition of production factors? Where was the PSD when the CFP presented a proposal for strengthening the resources of the Ministry of Agriculture? And how did you vote? You voted against, and that says a lot about your policy, which is almost identical to that of the PS. It is all « flour of the same bag », and I say again, flour imposed by the European Community. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u233	To make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Moura, the coming of the Minister of Agriculture to Parliament has served, among other things, to justify how he later appointed the Secretary of State for Agriculture to lose — we did not yet know at the time that he would eventually extinguish the Secretary of State himself. And the Minister gave an extraordinary answer — I believe that if my memory does not fail me, it was even a question from the honourable Member — when she asked you how it was possible to indicate the former Secretary of State. The Minister's response says a lot about how she did it, but I think she also says a lot about how she feels about the agriculture PSD. Because, judging by calming the honourable Member and the PSD, the Minister replied: « But until there was an acceptance of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) as regards the name of the Secretary of State. » And I ask you if you don't find this answer strange, if you don't find it strange about PSD. If the answer is that the interests of the CAP are those that calm the interests of the PSD, does it not find it strange, as regards the defence of the public service and the area of independence that the State should have, that a minister has asked private interests whether or not they accepted that name for State Secretary? It's just that I think it's absolutely reprehensible. It does not only lead in republican ethics, it carries a round lead in the defense of the public interest, because we must have a state secretary, a ministry of agriculture, that dialogue with public and private interests, that has a project for the country that fits the various interests of the sector, but that is not subject to the interests of the sector, because this submission is an unequivocal loss of national interest. And I ask you, Mr President, if you do not think this is another example of the disorientation of this government's Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u235	In response to these requests for clarification, Mr. João Moura, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions that have been put to me. In reply to Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo very quickly, I should like to say that, of course, the request for a change of trainer also questions the definition of the strategy that is inherent, because sometimes changing only as a coach and continuing with the same policy does not do any good. Therefore, the appeal I made was for Mr. Prime Minister to have an idea, giving him another hypothesis, that he should change trainers, should he change teams, if he so understands, so that agriculture policies are actually changing. With regard to Mr John Dias, in fact the wheat he spoke about here, with regard to the PSD, is quite well known. [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u237	You were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u238	For the past few years, it is perhaps considered a transgenic wheat of any germination that has been going around. There was no great result of the influence of the PCP on that which was the agricultural policy of this Ministry,... [[PSD applause.]] ... because the Minister of Agriculture who is in the government today is exactly the same as it was a while ago, when you were also making transgenic maize with them. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, we could not agree any more. But in addition to what you have told us here, I must say the following: any minister must take into account the views and the thesis of the confederations and associations of the sector. It must not, however, allow itself to be conditioned by these. But it must also not do the opposite, which is what, from the very beginning, the Minister of Agriculture has assumed before everyone, with the convience of Mr. Prime Minister, in the good style of 'who fucks with the PS'. In the form of punishment, the Minister for Agriculture has, since the first day, punished in particular the association you referred to, which is the Confederation of Farmers of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u239	In order to make a political statement, Mr Pedro Pessanha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are entering a new phase of the war in Ukraine, in which the continuation of the supply of arms, both defensive and offensive, is an imperative necessity if we do not want Ukraine to lose this war and with it all the countries of Europe. in this sense, the recent agreement for the supply of combat cars to Ukraine has once again come to reveal the state of abandonment to which this government has condemned our armed forces. We learned last week, through the press, that out of the 37 combat cars Leopard 2 of the Armed Forces, there are very few that are operational. This is not to say that, even if the 37 were operational, this number is clearly insufficient, both to guarantee a minimum dissuasion capacity and to support our allies in our international commitments. Deep down, and you have to say it with strength and, unfortunately, with some shame, we acquired and maintained a number of combat cars that hardly allow the maintenance of a school of weapons to prevent the extinction of this valence within the Portuguese Army. This is the policy of national defence of this government and the left as a whole: to reduce, reduce, reduce, both material and effective, to perhaps one day justify the extinction of the Armed Forces. With us, they won't make it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In the Navy, for example, in a country responsible for a maritime search and rescue area of more than 5 million square kilometres, it was also reported that, of the funds needed for maintenance in 2023, estimated at EUR 80 million, the State budget allocated only about 47 million, representing a deficit of 41 %. The lack of these EUR 33 million this year threatens the maintenance of ship resources, causing the weariness and inoperability of the main marine resources, even calling into question our commitments towards NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). The Navy also suffered a loss of 20 % of its assets in 10 years, from 8832 to 5135 military. If the trend continues, in 2027 the branch will not have squares available to embark. According to a Navy study, 57% of the military leave the Armed Forces because they are underpaid. In all three branches, in 2012 there were about 38 000 military personnel in the Armed Forces ; in 2021, there were only 28 800. The total military reduction was 24%. in this bleeding of human resources, the Army is the most penalized branch, currently having a deficit of about 4000 elements in relation to what should be its effective real. It is in this scenario of almost dismantling the Armed Forces, with a high-intensity conflict threatening the whole of Europe, that Mr. Prime Minister breaks the commitment made to our allies to invest 2 % of GDP in defense by 2024, delaying this objective in an irresponsible way, in our view, by the end of the decade. This despite the enormous effort our partners and allies make to increase investment in the collective defence of the European continent. It was sad, it was overwhelming to hear the Prime Minister say that it would only increase the defence budget if there were European aid in that regard. Once again, Mr Prime Minister gives our European partners the image of a begging country, by hand, asking for alms, even in a vital area, as is that of its own security and defence. Shame on you, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u242	The former fighters, too, do not escape this policy, abandoned, ostracized, accused by the left of a crime that was served by Portugal. Many of them survive with miserable pensions, other disabled, dependent on prostheses and wheelchairs, having to wait another year until they are handed over to them; all this in the face of the indifference of the Government of the country that one day swore to defend, even if that meant the sacrifice of their own life. Returning to the conflict in Ukraine: the sad-known Kamov helicopters — bought when Mr. Prime Minister was an internal minister, in a business that cost the state EUR 348 million but stopped since 2018, for several problems, being the biggest of them the lack of maintenance — continue to expect to be delivered to the Ukrainian Government, despite the pump and the propaganda of the announcement of its surrender for more than three months. National defence is a matter of such importance, which cannot be just a common place of good intentions, vague recognition and hollow words.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u244	National defence needs an immediate political will, which recovers a national defence industry and guarantees the recovery of its assets, the modernisation of its equipment, the ability to maintain its readiness continuously. That is the only way we will have real and effective Armed Forces, and not only as at present an illusion of Armed Forces without capacity and effectiveness. This government is also the government of management that preceded it. He has done everything to debase and weaken our Armed Forces. All it takes to ensure that Portugal has a truly modern and well-equipped Armed Forces, where its military, essential elements in the defense of the homeland, are properly respected and valued. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u245	Mr President, the Bureau has two entries for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u246	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u247	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Pedro Pessanha for the subject he has brought us, for his relevance to Portugal and for the work and mission of our Parliament. Since one of the issues he addressed concerns exactly with the conflict in Ukraine, I would like to begin by stressing that the PSD has always defended support and solidarity for the Ukrainian people, including, of course, the sending of military equipment, within the framework of our international commitments, in conjunction with our allies within the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, without naturally calling into question the maintenance of national military capabilities. Despite the unbelievable disarticulation between Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mrs. Minister for National Defence, who already has several episodes, we do not deny the effort of Portugal in the context of the war in Ukraine, but we have no doubt that such support could, and should, be more significant, if the Government did not invest in the operationality of the Armed Forces, if it did not postpone its modernization, which, as he said, is beyond the commitments made within NATO. It is recalled that at the end of 2022, the implementation rate of the Military Programming Act increased delays of EUR 236 million. So when we talk about combat cars, we remember exactly that delay. Regarding the Leopard 2 combat cars, those that have been talked about in the last few days, because they are pointed out exactly as one of the best weapons of war available to help in the defense of Ukraine, the Portuguese see—with justified perplexity and even embarrassment—that apparently of their 37 combat cars, only 2 will be fully functional. This is the reality of the country and this is the result of the de-investment in the Armed Forces. The government's speech is one, but reality is another. We have no doubt that we need to invest in the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u249	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u250	I shall conclude, Madam President. I would say more: we have this obligation, if we want to ensure our sovereignty, if we want to honour our international commitments, if we want to honor the men and women serving the Armed Forces and serving Portugal. But I think, with this government, we're not going there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u251	For a request for clarification, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u252	Madam President, Mr Pedro Pessanha, I would like to thank you for bringing the issue of defence to a political statement. It is, in fact, one of the areas in which we believe that the State should be well present, because it is its sole responsibility. That is why we often say that the State cannot be everywhere, because there are some areas that are of its only and exclusive responsibility, in which it must be with all strength and with all vigor. The Armed Forces are clearly an example of what it should be. We therefore share many of the concerns that the honourable Member has conveyed from the rostrum and, as the PSD in its request for clarification has just mentioned, there are no conditions for our armed forces. There are no conditions in terms of human resources and, as you said, we can also talk about the respect that is due to the former combatants, those who have already served Portugal in the Armed Forces. There is a lack of material conditions, material resources, and the honourable Member has set a good example, which is the question of the maritime territory of Portugal. The Navy has a fundamental role to play in protecting our territory, especially the sea, and it must have conditions for that. Then Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira also spoke to us on the issue of material support for Ukraine, taking the example of Leopard 2. The Liberal Initiative asked the Government a formal question about this material and we expect the Government to respond to how many we have, what state we have and when they will be made available, within the framework of European integration and support for Ukraine. It is for us in this war that Russia is doing to Ukraine, there is no doubt as to which side we should be on and what support we should give. Support is different, and it must also be a support for military material to Ukraine, that Leopard 2 is clearly an example, because Putin cannot win this war in various ways, and one of them is that he cannot earn 1 metre from Ukrainian territory, because Ukraine's territorial integrity cannot be involved. Let me ask you a question directly, because you need to know how we are, where we are, and with whom we are. As you know, I was present at the convention...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u253	You have to ask the question very quickly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u254	The question is very quick, Madam President. I was present at your convention, in which you received some of your partners from the two European families with whom they relate, and I heard, in an impressive and indignant manner, the intervention of the German party present. I will not quote what I said, but when I heard it, it seemed that I was listening to the PCP talking about what it stands for in this situation. [[PCP protests.]] It is normal that we are not always fully aligned with our international partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u255	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u256	... but I just want to know what your opinion of your German partner is: do you align with AfD ( Alternative für Deutschland ), or does AfD, in fact, have a speech equal to that of the CFP? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u257	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Pessanha has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u258	Madam President, I would like to thank both my colleague Jorge Paulo Oliveira and my colleague from the Liberal Initiative Rodrigo Saraiva. I will reply directly to Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva. Mr Deputy, in Germany, the defence budget is EUR 100 billion. They've already sent a lot more equipment than we did. With regard to what you have heard, I have also heard, and although we are in the same European family, that does not mean that we must be obliged to be...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u259	What about the others? Oh, my God! Salvini? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u260	Pay attention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u261	Aparts are regimental!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u262	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u263	We have a war to win, and that's what we're interested in.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u265	With regard to the former combatants — mentioned, and well by the PSD Member — today I saw an article saying that former Guinean fighters again demanded Portuguese nationality against the Portuguese embassy in Bissau. We therefore have once and for all to resolve this issue of the former combatants. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u266	For a political declaration, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u267	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year ago, by this time, Antonio Costa has obtained an absolute majority of Portuguese and that means we are now almost eight years of socialist governance. It is therefore a good time to make a balance sheet of the results achieved so far. Let us look at some of the facts regarding the living conditions of Portuguese: 1, 7 million Portuguese live at this time below the poverty threshold, even after social transfers; more than 2, 6 million Portuguese live at this time with less than €660 per month; 1, 9 to 3 million Portuguese, depending on the criteria used, live in situations of energy poverty. The poorest families may take up to five generations in Portugal to break the cycle of poverty; 56% of Portuguese live today with less than 1000 € per month and, if we look at young people up to 30 years of age, we are talking about 65% of young Portuguese people living with less than 1000 € per month. At the SNS (National Health Service ), people on the waiting lists for specialist consultations and surgeries can wait for years and, at the same time, the number of Portuguese without a family doctor doubled, now being 1.4 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u269	Meanwhile, the fiscal burden remains in record values, the economy's competitiveness has fallen and public expenditure remains close to 50% of GDP. Aging, emigration, depopulation, poverty, degradation of public services, bureaucracy: this is the legacy of Antonio Costa, with regard to the living conditions of the Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]] But let us also look at the health of democratic institutions. What do we find there in the government of Antonio Costa? Oh, my God! Nepotism, laxism,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u270	...incompetence, confusion, interference in the separation of powers. This is the legacy of António Costa, with regard to the health of democratic institutions. But will Antonio Costa be competent, at least, in the management of his own government? Well, there we have: in 10 months, tens of rulers, state secretaries and ministers have been left on the way. Now, they are no longer just state ministers and secretaries who lose themselves, but also state secretaries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u271	There are no state secretaries!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u272	...as happened to the Secretary of State for Agriculture. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u273	In the face of this government disaster, I repeat, in the face of this government disaster, Mr. Members, Antonio Costa presented himself to the country on the night of January 30, pretending to be a young, humble man. The same António Costa do "ustate" now wants to redeem himself and present himself with humility. The problem, sirs. Members, it is that the wind of change has already begun out there and, soon, it will enter this Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from the IL.]] That is precisely what the Liberal Initiative wanted to express, with the motion of censure it presented a few weeks ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u274	They woke up late!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u275	... a motion of censure that many could not vote in favour, but wanted to do so, as we now know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u276	It's already in June!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u277	This motion of censure decreed the death of government solutions from the Government of Antonio Costa and also decreed the principle of opening the doors of this House to the winds of change that come there. [[Applause from the IL.]] It was this political courage that the Liberal Initiative had — and others did not — to present a motion of censure at its own time, on its own day, with justice and opportunity. It is the same political courage that the Liberal Initiative will maintain in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u278	Opposition to PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u279	While others hesitate, the Liberal Initiative is moving forward. While others are afraid, the Liberal Initiative presents courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u280	That's the PCP speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u281	The Liberal Initiative will be here, to present a model of society and a model of economy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u282	Which one? Oh, my God! They don't have one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u283	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, is a model of economy completely different from that which António Costa has to offer to the Portuguese. Here we are! We will be here to present concrete measures for the specific problems of Portuguese, such as housing, with the unburocratization and simplification of proceedings, because it is unacceptable that two years should be allowed to have an economic activity license, or two years to build a house in Portugal. It's unacceptable, sir! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] With regard to the specific problems of Portuguese, we will present solutions for transport. We will present the liberalisation of public transport and a national railway plan that solves the problems of Portuguese mobility. Yes, let us defend a constitutional review which guarantees the rights and freedoms of the Portuguese and which rejects — rejects! — health derivatives which are unacceptable in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from the PCP and CH Member Pedro Pinto.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the same courage, I would like to ask you a question. Members of the PSD and the Members. PS Members, when 700 000 votes from the Portuguese did not serve at all in the last legislative elections? Do you feel good about this? It is that the Liberal Initiative does not feel well and will therefore present a proposal for a revision of the electoral law, because representing these 700 000 Portuguese is essential for us to have a healthy democracy and for us to make the real fight against abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u285	So we'll move on by ourselves, if that's the case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u286	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u287	... or accompanied, if for this they have courage, why is the question: what are they afraid to give representation to the Portuguese? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] to your fear, if any, we will counter our courage and, to your indifference, if any, we will counter deep respect for the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the IL, having Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u288	If it had been Cotrim, stand up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u289	Mr Rui Rocha, the Bureau records six requests for clarification. This was the last political statement, but I appeal that, in future, the ladies and gentlemen. Members sign up while the speaker is using the floor and not at the end, when the speaker is concluding. Everyone registering at the same time makes it difficult to manage the work at the Bureau. For the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u290	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Rocha, I begin by complimenting you for being elected as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Liberal Initiative. I confess that I cannot wish you happiness, because it supports political positions that we fight in many areas, but it sends democratic respect for the election of the Liberal Initiative to do this. On the content of your intervention in plenary and on what we have seen in the debate of the Liberal Initiative, there are some subjects that allow me to start some political debate, which is important for us to understand what the Liberal Initiative comes and what the country can expect from its political proposals. It is that, of the priorities it has brought, there are few that actually impact people's lives. [[Protests by Members of IL Bernardo Blanco and Patrícia Gilvaz.]] Students do not have easy access to higher education accommodation, but the honourable Member has said nothing about it. What I said is that it is important to review the electoral law, which does not tell them, because that is not the problem when they want to access housing. [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] The families lack housing and the honourable Member says nothing about it. Today he did not speak of bides, it is true, but I confess to him that the bide is not the main problem in access to the housing of families in Portugal. We realize, therefore, that there is a gap between the life that the Liberal Initiative considers exists in the country and the reality that so often affects people's lives. That is why, when we talk about concrete problems, we see that the Liberal Initiative is not a solution; it is a problem! When we talk about housing, people realize that the Liberal Initiative rises against the interests of people and in defense of the interests of real estate. When we talk about health problems, we realize that the Liberal Initiative rises against the interests of people and in defense of private health interests. When we talk about access to work rights that safeguard public school, one of the pillars of the social state, as teachers are now claiming, the Liberal Initiative stands up in defense of all the problems that teachers are fighting: the problem of having camera presidents move in the hiring of teachers, or the way of surrender to private people, which the Liberal Initiative also defends in this matter. Therefore, all the challenge of those who want more rights and better life in our country has the opposition not only of the Socialist Party but also of the ideals of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u291	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u292	In conclusion, Madam President, with a question: why is the Liberal Initiative so old in its proposals now in a new mandate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u293	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u294	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Rui Rocha on his election as the leader of the Liberal Initiative, which he had already done in private. We will continue to have many opportunities to disagree in this Assembly of the Republic. Democracy is done with those we disagree with; one cannot do with those who disagree with democracy itself, or who only use it to destroy and undermine democracy within.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u295	That's the communists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u296	So if it is true that, in terms of model, we will defend different things, that is natural and greeting. In the Free, we believe that Portugal has a hard and long way to be an economy of knowledge with high added value. We do not believe that, with the fall in taxes on the work of the younger, on a magic pass, our problem of low wages is solved. If it is true that, at one time or another, people would receive more, then, they would have less public services. With these public services unless we could afford—because we do not believe in faeces that GDP growth would compensate for everything else—it would be less desirable to live in this country. But the question I want to ask you is not about what we disagree about. It is about what, I hope, we are consequently agreeing, in democracy, in the rule of law and in fundamental rights. We recently heard your bench leader, Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, say that he was impressed with what he heard at the Congress of the Arrival,... [[CH protests.]] ... in part of the intervention of the Alternative for Germany. [[Has anyone invited you?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u297	It's true! The leader of the liberal party in Germany, when there was the possibility that liberals in a German region would lead a government alone, only relying on the support of that party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u298	We're in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u299	... traveled from Berlin to the capital of this German region to tell the local leader of the liberal party what you did not say in the Azores, which is: « Either you resign, or I resign. » That is unacceptable! But I have heard, and point out, Mr Rui Rocha, with a remarkable clarity on television, that he will not have agreements with the party sitting at the extreme right in the Chamber. [[CH and IL protests.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u300	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u301	I shall conclude, Mr President, but I do not have the best conditions to complete the request for clarification of the Liberal Initiative. I don't know why the other party is getting so upset. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u302	Who are you talking to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u303	Go talk to Joacine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u304	Mr Rui Rocha has the opportunity to reiterate in the Assembly of the Republic that same clarity regarding red lines and to what extent he intends to condition the PSD to adopt the same position as he has already expressed. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u305	You were quick today!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u306	For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u307	Mr President, I welcome Mr Rui Rocha. We heard his speech concerning the one who has been the positioning of the Liberal Initiative and wanted to start by making a reference: they seek to pull for differences, particularly with the Socialist Party, to hide what unites you. In his speech, he said that the Liberal Initiative is moving forward. In fact, he made and put forward a concrete proposal on the liberalisation of transport. Mr President, we are seeing the consequences of the liberalisation of a number of sectors. What the Liberal Initiative is advancing is the increase in electricity and gas prices when EDP ( Energys of Portugal ) profits reached EUR 518 million in the first nine months of 2022, and Galp is preparing to distribute dividends by EUR 900 million. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] What the Liberal Initiative wants to move forward is the increase in telecommunications prices by 7, 8 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u309	ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) has already stated that this has no justification because the profits of the Altice reached EUR 688 million; the profits of NOS, EUR 128 million; the profits of Vodafone, EUR 612 million. And we could continue out there. He referred to poverty, but as far as the Liberal Initiative is concerned, it is in the refusal of proposals, such as those brought here by the CFP, to value wages and pensions and to remove the serious standards of labour law from the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u310	There, back off!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u311	And progresses, together with the PS, the PSD and the Arrival, pushing workers and reformed people to impoverishment. That is what the Liberal Initiative has to offer our workers, people and our country. Let me say that what you brought, again, has nothing. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] It's the old farm!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u312	It's agrarian reform!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u313	It is the old exploitation of the incomes of those who work, the old concentration of wealth in economic groups and the old political options that do not solve any problems. On the contrary, they only contribute to the worsening of problems, as we see in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u314	What about Sonae? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u315	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u316	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block, to whom I thank both the words and the frankness. It looks good to me and it's mutual, because I don't wish the Left Block great success either, to be honest. [[Congrats by Mr. IL João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Personal issues, of course, are out of these parts. That's right, sir. In fact, the proposals of the Liberal Initiative for specific problems of Portuguese are very different from those presented by the Left Block. I'll give you two or three examples. I spoke of a national railway plan because of mobility problems and talked about housing issues. Data have been released even today, or these days, that say there have never been so few houses in Portugal to be placed on the market. We therefore have a clear problem on the supply side and our proposals are very concrete. There is a problem of great bureaucracy, of complex processes, in addition to tax issues, which make it impossible to encourage both construction and the provision of housing in the market. By the way, we can also say that there is public housing which is currently unemployed. Only in Lisbon, I think it's 2000 fires. All this contributes to the problem, but our proposals are concrete: we want simpler and faster processes and lower taxation, which will allow more conditions on the supply side for the Portuguese to have access to housing. But I also say to you, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, that we are indeed very far away, because we would never present a measure, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua has presented, clearly violating the principle of private property, to impose that they were expropriated — that is what we are talking about — Portuguese of her properties. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u317	Is he still elected and lying? Your predecessor lied less! [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u318	We'll never do that and stay on your side. We are completely on the side of such measures, which make no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u319	Would you like me to say nothing? Oh, my God! [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u320	As far as Mr Tavares is concerned, I say that, as you said, my position has been clear and remains clear: that is what I have stated, with total clarity, as there can be no more. As for Mrs Paula Santos, this equality that she wants to make between the Liberal Initiative and the Socialist Party is absurd. We presented a few weeks ago, Mrs. Member, in this House, a motion of censure to the PS. Do you know who voted against? Oh, my God! The Communist Party! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u321	You voted against! You want the continuation of the policies of the Socialist Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u322	It was six budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u323	On the other hand, the Liberal Initiative has always been against the policies of the Socialist Government and never, in any time, approved six budgets. Six, Mrs. Member! Six budgets of the Socialist Party approved by the CFP! [[PCP protests.]] So, it doesn't make any sense any match. You have been complicit in the Socialist Party over the years, and you have responsibilities, particularly in the conditions of poverty faced by the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u324	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u325	They were complicit in the socialist policies of poverty, the redistribution of mediocrity and all that affects Portuguese today. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u326	Who votes against increasing pensions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u327	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, historically, the main factor in the fall of liberalism has been due to failures caused by the absence of the state in the economy. Historically, liberalism has failed due to extreme social inequality and abuse of power that originated in the societies in which it was established. For liberalism, capital has always emerged as a new form of property and work has always been considered mere commodity, subject to the law of supply and demand, whose price is adjusted considering the minimum necessary for the support of the worker and his family. In fact, in liberal societies, workers suffered a lot in search of better living conditions that never came, due to the extremely low wage, even after performing other services to ensure their own subsistence, often under very bad working conditions, on extremely long days. Historically, liberalism always preached and defended; then, it succumbed, and only the economically superior classes conquered and gained privileges. Liberal societies were divided into two classes, separated by an abyss, leading to the emergence of radical ideologies aimed at the solution, but always by conflicting means, which, by the way, was extremely dangerous, precisely because there were no rules or guidelines that led to any dispute in good term. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] In countries such as Germany and Russia, where liberal policies have been adopted, what we know later as « totalitarian states » has emerged, which have been the result of an anti-liberal reaction, but with inhuman and radical traits. A state that really pursues the common good cannot only policing public order, because the dignity of human beings also takes place in the promotion of social justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u329	The word of the Lord! [[Risos do L.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u330	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rocha, I welcome you, first of all, for your recent election and I wish you the greatest political happiness, especially in matters in which you join us, to fight our socialist government. [[Congratulations from PSD Members Joaquim Miranda Sarmento and Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Mr. Deputies, we fully agree with the diagnosis you made. The numbers it brought are shocking, they confront us, and indeed, the last seven years, especially the last year, have been disastrous to Portugal. We have a government that has been turned inside for a year, a government that has been more concerned with you and with your salvation than with the country, a government in which the ministers we know, we know them for bad reasons, and the other ministers, we don't even know them. We don't know what happens in Justice, European Affairs, Defense, but we know who the Minister of Infrastructure is, we know who the Minister of Finance is, we know who the Minister of Health is, we know who the Minister of Defense was: all bad examples! Therefore, clearly, its diagnosis, although worrying, is very true. Mr President, you will also recognise — in this respect, we clearly disagree — that the type of need for intervention that the Liberal Initiative has is not that of the PSD. When they speak to us in the motion of censure that courageously assume and others do not, we realize that the need for affirmation of notoriety or, if you wish, of proof of life of the Liberal Initiative is not exactly ours. You will have to agree with me, I hope — that is one of the questions — that the motion of censure itself was not a real initiative in order to overthrow the government, but only the manifestation of an act of faith or the affirmation of will. Mr President, there are two questions which separate us, which I am asking and which I address to you: firstly, I would like to ask whether you will be really interested when the time comes — and you are increasingly aware that the time is coming — to ask someone, if he is no longer anyone else, then the people themselves, to help us free ourselves from a government that does not govern and to whom the Portuguese people gave up, a year ago, with confidence in their vote. Secondly, Mr Deputy, as you know, separates the diagnosis from us. For us, liberalism is not an answer to everything. For us, liberalism is not that antibiotic that cures all diseases. Therefore, we would like to realize how far the Liberal Initiative perceives and accompanies our vision, which, as you know, is a social-democrat vision. This vision is not radically opposed to yours, but believe it's quite different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u332	For a request for clarification, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rocha, I would like to congratulate you, firstly, on your election, sending you a democratic greeting. I hope, of course, in the context of the pluralism of this House, to continue working with you and a democratic parliamentary group, as is the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u334	How are they all here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u335	Let me tell you, Mr President, that my congratulations and democratic greetings extend to the clarity of your position vis-à-vis the extreme-right anti-democratic system. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u336	This clarity that brought to the Liberal Initiative is welcome,... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] ...without prejudice to the ideological differences we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u337	You're welcome, go home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u338	Look how the men even went to your congress! Continued protests by the CH Member Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u339	Mr Filipe Melo, I have to ask you for good manners. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u340	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, that clarity is very welcome. With institutional loyalty, I would like to tell you, in your first speech as President of the Liberal Initiative, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has seen with good eye that you and the Parliamentary Group of which are members have presented a candidate to the Vice-President of this Chamber. [[CH's laughs.]] I have already told your predecessor, who is in this Chamber: you can present any of the eight Members of your bench, because we, with pleasure, know how to distinguish a Democrat from a non-democratic one. So please present this candidate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] However, Mr President, many things separate us from the ideological point of view. You brought a set of numbers. I'm not going to discuss them, but I'm just going to say that, as far as poverty is concerned, it's less than it was in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u341	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u342	As for social support, they are more today than they were in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u343	Sure! There's poorer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u344	As for the unemployment rate, it is today less than it was in 2015. As for private investment, Mr, we have more private investment today than we had in 2015. As for the direct investment of foreigners, we have more today than in 2015. As regards exports, there are more today than in 2015. As for housing sharing conditions, one of the aspects that has been discussed today, also with its bench, today we have fewer Portuguese living in bad conditions than we had in 2015. Mr. Member, the Socialist Party has indeed been in government for seven years and, after seven years, Portugal we have today is much better than what we had in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u345	It is this record, Mr President, that was serious and politically honest to do. It is not all done, much to do, with humility, but, honourable Member, Portugal of 2022 is much better than that of 2015, that of cuts in wages, pensions, the reduction of workers' rights. It's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u346	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u347	This country was better in 2022. Now it's more equal, more supportive, with better wages...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u348	With more social support! That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u349	... and better income than Portugal that in 2015 we began to rule with the Left Block and with the PCP. But at that time we began to rule by opposition to the ideas that you are bringing into this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u350	Now it's after seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u351	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u352	Mr President, I appreciate Mr Rui Afonso's speech, but when there is no question, it cannot be answered. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u353	Historical discourse is worth what it is, but I will not be able to answer it that I was not asked.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u354	But you can beat it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u355	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, regarding the motion of censure, he makes an interpretation that it was a manifestation and had no useful effect. The demonstrations are also important. What is recorded is that the PSD chose not to manifest itself and therefore, as omissions are also relevant in politics, what I register is an omission. Besides, and you at the PSD bench will know-CL-the-better than I, it seems - that that understanding wasn't even unanimous on your bench. I will not go into internal matters, but I would also like to register that point. Even now, if there is indeed something that characterizes this position of the Liberal Initiative, it is the clarity with whom we understand ourselves and with whom we do not understand ourselves. Unfortunately, this clarity does not seem to be present in all political parties until now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u356	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u357	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, thank you very much for the greeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u358	It wasn't a question either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u359	We also note that stressing the clarity of the position we are taking and we have assumed, but I would like to say to Mr Eurico Brilliant Days that, if we are clear, the PS was not clear about understanding with the extremes and, indeed, has led to the extreme fact that it has a governmental solution based on the extremes that sit to the left of this Chamber. [[Applause from the IL.]] As far as the subject of the Vice-President is concerned, he said, well, that they know how to distinguish Democrats from non-democrats, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not enabled the election of John Cotrim Figueiredo, who is a Democrat in all proof.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u360	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u361	So at the time, they didn't know how to distinguish, they couldn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u362	Let's decide!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u363	It wasn't us, it was the PPD / PSD! [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u364	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u365	Now it's not Philip Melo who's making noise!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u366	Mr President, this is the advantage of the clear positions: they generate discussion. Finally, he said that Portugal was better than in 2015. Not long ago we had Mr. Prime Minister here saying that Portugal is worse. In fact, there is a very big difference between the Liberal Initiative and the Socialist Party. It is that you are content with very little and we are ambitious! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u367	We thus conclude the political declarations. Mr. Secretary-General Palmeira Maciel has the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u368	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 434 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and Bills Nos 516 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 518 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-02.u369	the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, Friday, 10 a.m., is set out in the first item the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 48 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Resets electricity, natural gas, butane and propane, as well as introduces the provision of Internet access services in List 1 - Goods and services subject to the reduced rate of the Value Added Tax Code. In the second point, we will have the joint assessment of Petition No 251 / XIV / 2. a ( Fernando Miguel Silva Gonçalves et al.) — By reviewing the technical careers of the DGRSP and creating the unique career of reintegration technician and the Resolution Projects Nos 67 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By creating the career of reintegration technician, Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services ; 305 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government review the careers of professional social reintegration technician, senior social reintegration technician and higher education technician from the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, and regulate their progress and remuneration, 352 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Review of technical careers and creation of the single technical/reintegration career within the framework of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services ( DGRSP ), and 390 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By reviewing the technical careers of the DGSP-Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services - and creating the unique career of reintegration technician. of the third point, is the joint assessment of Petition No 310 / XIV / 3. a ( Eduardo Bernardino et al.) — Nurses - By the right of access to reform at least 55 years of age, of Bill No. 496 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creating a status of risk and penosity for health professionals and 501 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recognizes the profession of nurse as of rapid wear and anticipates the retirement age, as well as of Resolution Projects Nos 323/15/1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government set up a working group to amend the legal framework for rapid wear and tear professions, to define criteria for the allocation of this qualification and to identify an exemplary list of such professions, and 396 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses. At the fourth point, we will have the joint discussion of Petition No 280 / XIV / 2. a ( Sonia Patrícia Barros de Sousa et al.) — Covid-19- Against the mass vaccination of children and young people and the Resolution Project No 392 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of the psychological impact of the pandemic on children and young people of school age. of the fifth point, sets out the Proposal for Law No 50 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition, without debate time. Finally, on the sixth point, we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The session is over. Good afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 46 minutes.]]
