ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u1	Good afternoon to all and to all. We have quorum, so the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister and the other members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and Mr. Authorities, I ask you to open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. As usual, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will make the usual announcements. Please, you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u2	Madam President, very late for everyone. I will announce the withdrawal of Bill Nos 720 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 722 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and the Resolution Projects 279, 351, 449 and 520 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u3	Let's get on our agenda. The first point is the current debate... Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u4	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u5	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u6	Mr President, we have come to the knowledge of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, but I think that it is also widely disseminated in the media, a registered occurrence, we think, a few weeks ago — we do not have the exact date — in this same House, in the framework of a visit accompanied by a Member of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco. A youtuber who was visiting the House — having developed something that is usually the following of citizens, in this House, to publicise the activity of Parliament, which is and must continue to be seen as normal and positive for the transparency of this institution and its disclosure — at the end of its visit, or its presence, in the recording of this video, went up to the pulpit of the speakers of this same House and not only used the word, finally, setting up a plenary session, in which it took advantage to give some notes on all that is wrong in any changes to the local housing regime, but added a detail, which may not be a detail, an express and serious insult to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u7	Oh, I don't believe it! The Liberal Initiative? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u8	It's not just a matter. The respect of the House by the House, by the institution and by the spaces of Parliament is a matter which we shall raise at the Conference of Leaders, in the first that is achieved, because it seems to us that, in 48 years of democracy, the Members of this House have always known to accompany, encourage and direct visits to Parliament. Many thousands of citizens have crossed these walls—not the walls, obviously! — they crossed these rooms and spaces, and they knew how to respect the institution they were visiting. It seems to us, therefore, that there is a significant gravity on the subject, and before the House we put it today, because, we have this expectation, Mr. Parliamentary Leader of the Liberal Initiative, which we respect, and Mr. Leader of the Liberal Initiative, which we also respect, will surely not miss the opportunity of, before the House, before the country and before the Prime Minister, to apologize for what happened in this House. Many times we banish the idea that any disagreement, any political criticism is an insult, and that sometimes makes us immune to the fact that, often, there are insults that are truly insults, insults that, in certain areas, are not acceptable. This is the temple of democracy. It's sacrosanct, in a certain way. Citizens can and should continue to enter here, they can and should continue to record their space here in a photographic way, when, in joy, they visit the place where their Members exercise their parliamentary mandate on their behalf. But what I think no political force can accept is that this House and that rostrum are used for personal insult. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u9	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u10	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u12	Madam President, addressing you, and following this request made by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to say that the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, as we have already done, in the press that asked us about the events, has no problems in quickly lamenting and apologizing for that moment that happened in the YouTube video. We have no problem doing so. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u13	Just that moment? Why just now?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u14	We will also have no problem with the subject being discussed at the Conference of Leaders to ensure that such initiatives — as we have the Youth Parliament — as we have received on Friday, here, the Next Generation Academy, which can bring the younger people closer to the parliamentary reality, do not cease to happen. That was the goal of that visit. There were two youtubers who were here making videos, unfortunately, one of them did not have a decent behavior, which we regretted, and for which we apologized. [[Congratulations from IL, PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u15	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u16	For the same purpose, Madam President, if you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u18	Madam President, we have now heard the parliamentary leader of the Liberal Initiative talk about an issue that only concerns the Liberal Initiative. But it is not surprising that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke very indignantly about something that has happened in this plenary. He will arrive at the Conference of Leaders and his personal email—because he likes to make these tricks in Parliament—the list of a number of people from PS and JS who were sitting here, in this chair, where I was the sole Member, and I am now doing obscene acts in this Parliament for our chair, calling them names to arrive, to put 'fascist', 'racist' and other names here, on this bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u19	It's true! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u20	Yeah, only when they don't like it doesn't work out for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u21	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u23	That is how the Liberal Initiative responds as it pleases. You're lucky you're not from here, because if you were from there, you know what we'd say? "It was very well said, we would do the same thing, and if we were here and were insulted, we would respond to bend..."
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u25	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u26	I'm not done yet! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u27	No, Mr, I am interrupting you because you are making an inquiry to the Bureau, but I still do not understand the reason why you are asking the Bureau. from the Liberal Initiative I understand, because it was quoted, but, as I know, there are now no requests to the Bureau by all the benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u28	Not if you don't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u29	So I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u30	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves made an appeal to the Bureau, referring to an event in this Chamber involving us all, and in which Mr Prime Minister Antonio Costa was offended. I was very offended at this and said, Madam President, that the House of Democracy cannot tolerate these kinds of insults. The House wishes to inform the President, the Bureau, that no bench has been more insulted by people visiting this Parliament and this House here than that of the Arrival, particularly by members of the PS, JS and others. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u31	Therefore, the Liberal Initiative will respond as you wish, but on our part know this: do not be offended virgins, when you are the main cause of insults in this Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u32	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u33	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President, on the same terms as in a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u35	It's three short notes. If it is true what Mr. André Ventura reports, on less worthy behavior of militants, or whoever he or she is, in representation of the Socialist Party, it takes the same repudiation that he has just carried out the intervention we did against the Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I would like to greet Mr Rodrigo Saraiva for his apology to the House and for the dignity he has shown right now. I believe that it is, in fact, by talking and overcoming the less happy times that we have been able to build a Chamber that respects the Portuguese — all of them — and that it also respects itself. So I wanted to give you this note on your answer and the statement you made. Finally, Mr Ventura, « calimerisation» is a talent that develops. After the intervention in which he has just said that he would subscribe to the insult that was pronounced in this House, he sits, very offended: «Oh, they did the same to us too! ... » Sir, there was hardly any documentary evidence...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u37	I shall conclude, Madam President. There was hardly any documentary evidence, transmitted and published by the press, we gave public notice of this repudiation, and here we presented it. If the honourable Member has the same complaint, as I have already said, it deserves the same repudiation. Find her. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u38	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u39	For the same purpose, Madam President, in the above mentioned terms, and very briefly, because I know you want to start the session.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u41	I just wanted to tell Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves that, the day after the night we heard your Prime Minister do the greatest victimization exercise in history, if there are 'Calimers' here, they are the absolute majority of PS Members who are sitting here! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u42	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as everyone knows, because they have certainly read the summary of the last Conference of Leaders, the subject is scheduled for the next Conference of Leaders, which will be on 10th. So we will not now bring to the House an issue that is not on our agenda but is on the agenda of another meeting. We will now start the current debate required by the Liberal Initiative under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, on the theme « Business sector of the State ». To open this debate, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party called for an absolute majority, promising stability. Instead, we have a climate of permanent instability: we have a Prime Minister with a mandate to manage the country, but he cannot even manage his home, he cannot even manage his internal struggles. In the country where it matters, far from the palatial wars of the court, at the same time we have the lowest wages in Europe and the highest tax efforts. Despite the enormous fiscal effort, despite the increase in government revenue of EUR 30 billion in this Parliament, public services are getting worse and worse. We have schools without teachers, hospitals without doctors, streets without cops. We pay more and more to get less and less. It broke out with health, education, middle class and the lease market. We have a government that destroys everything that moves, including itself. Despite the public discussion being dominated by the environment, by the foam of the days, the real problems of the country are structural, and are resolved with reforms that take months to negotiate, not with press conferences that take 15 minutes to prepare, resolve with work and commitment capacity, not with circuses and factions wars. It is only for the Portuguese to whom the money is missing at the end of the month and whose children cannot leave home—and, when they leave, it is for abroad—to whom they go, at 3 o'clock in the morning, to the line of the health centre, no matter who wins ego fights between ministers, Prime Minister and President of the Republic. For the common Portuguese, win whoever wins the ego struggle, who loses is always him. If a small investigation into a public enterprise generated this noise, it is not very difficult to understand what would happen if we extended the poll to the other public business sector. By the end of 2021, there were 348 entities in the business public sector. these entities include companies in the sectors of water, health, education, transport, but also companies in the sectors of mining, agriculture, consulting, processing industry and 10 companies in the sector of real estate. Finally, there are public companies in almost all sectors of the Portuguese economy. Portugal is today the only country in the European Union in which the State, at the same time, holds the largest airline, the largest railway company and the largest commercial bank. There is an important difference between public companies and private companies: in private companies, invest whoever you want, and in public enterprises, we are all obliged to invest, whether we use their services or not, whether we agree with their existence or not; in private companies, the potential losses of shareholders are calculated and taken voluntarily, and in public enterprises, the losses for taxpayers are forced, supported by everyone, in a coercive manner. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Therefore, in public enterprises, even more than in private enterprises, there is an obligation of transparency in accounts and meritocracy in choices for leadership. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Portugal. The management of public enterprises in Portugal is marked by opacity. Since 2015, on the Government's option, neither the reports nor the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance ( DGTF ) nor the UTAM ( Technical Unit for Follow-up and Monitoring of the Public Business Sector ) on the economic and financial situation of the State business sector. Too many state companies do not even publish their accounts and, of which they publish, a large part was not approved by the guardianship during the last report of the Council on Public Finance. Suspects of nepotism in the choice of managers are also legitimate. Let us take just a few examples of presidents of boards of administration of some of the largest public companies: Companhia das Lezírias, ex-Autarca do PS ; Metro do Porto, current mayor of the PS ; Infrastructuras de Portugal, former Secretary of State of a Government of PS ; Mobi.E, deputy minister of a PS government ; administration of the Port of Aveiro, former mayor of the PS and candidate of the Municipal Chamber of Aveiro by PS ; administration of the Port of Lisbon, former member of several Governments of the PS ; permanent president of the Mining Development Company, former president of the camera elected by PS ; Docapesca, author of the PS. I could continue with many more examples, which go beyond the presidents of board of directors. I will be very clear: having been a governor or autar should not be an impediment to taking office in public undertakings, but it should not be a shortcut either. Because of the frequency with which these transitions occur, almost always with people of the ruling party, it seems obvious that today, having been next to the PS is too frequent a shortcut to reach the top of the public companies. When the scope of recruitment is thus restricted, the best managers available will not always be obtained. The result is mismanagement, resulting in losses paid by taxpayers, which in 2001 alone were over EUR 3000 million. Mrs. Members, public companies are the mirror of the country, a country where people are impoverished and institutions are degraded. But even when attention focuses on the foam of the days, in the environment, we will not tire of looking at structural problems. While some seem tired and ready to give up, we will continue to vote and work for a better country, because we do not sell, do not give up, do not leave our country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u44	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, Pedro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u45	H.E. Mrs. President, Mrs. Ex-Ms and Mrs. ex-Ms. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We would like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to hold this debate, hoping to frame, clearly and objectively, the work we are doing within the framework of the State's business sector and, of course, clarify your questions, taking good note also of your suggestions and your contributions. in this sense, I begin by presenting some economic and financial data on the most recent performance of public enterprises in the state business sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u46	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u47	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the business sector of the State includes an extended set of companies in several sectors of activity, highlighting the health sector, with about 30 %, transport and storage, with 11 %, the financial and insurance sector, also with 11 %, and the water sector, with 10 %. The data available for 2022, made available by UTAM, which is the Technical Unit for Follow-up and Monitoring of the Public Business Sector, are still preliminary, and considering 132 companies, already allow us to draw some important conclusions. Even with a pandemic, with a year of 2021 when they began to feel the first inflationary phenomena and with 2022 it became a year in which the context of uncertainty intensified, following the war in Ukraine, which resulted in a sudden and expressive rise in the inflation rate and the rise in interest rates, last year confirmed the strategy for overall improvement of the state business sector. The total revenue increased by around 0, 7 %, with the total expenditure falling by around EUR 90 million, i.e. less 0, 8 %, resulting in an EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and depreciation) to evolve positively by 11 %, to around EUR 1600 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Net results, although negative, have significantly improved in values greater than 48 %. Cash flow rose by more than 200 % and increased from EUR 258 million to EUR 776 million. The debt has already fallen more than 18 %, the equivalent of a reduction in debt in the order of EUR 5 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I said before, these are still preliminary data, but there is already an improvement in the financial performance of the State business sector in 2022, in line with what happened in 2021, and after a marked and normal degradation in 2020. Having made this economic and financial framework, it should be noted that the current governance model of the State business sector, regulated by Decree-Law No 133 / 2013, is in line with the principles and good international practices of managing public enterprises, following the guidelines issued by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), as recently recognised by the Council of Public Finance. The exercise of the State's shareholding function integrates a wide and complex range of responsibilities, since the objective of ensuring strict and rigorous monitoring of the management of the State's financial assets is required, ensuring that the management model of the State business sector is improved and strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is committed to developing actions and initiatives to improve accountability, or the process of monitoring the State's shareholder function, while promoting and strengthening the autonomy of management and accountability of managers. That's what we're doing. Besides all the current activity—and believe it's a lot! — we have already developed, or are developing, several actions and initiatives. A new integrated reporting system ( SISEE ) is already in operation, which reduces the number of reports carried out by companies, promotes the integration of data between systems and incorporates a set of automated data quality control mechanisms collected. Another important initiative is the management contracts of public managers. A technical document supporting management contracts was approved and shared by companies at the end of February.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u49	The aim is to support companies and managers in the development of these same contracts by providing a set of framework guidelines that facilitate their formulation, providing that the first contracts can still be signed in this first half of the year. By continuing to work carried out by my predecessors, we are making an evaluation of the portfolio of participations, seeking to streamline and optimize the state's business presence. We are also preparing a reorganization of the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance. DGTF will be equipped with more resources and more responsiveness, while its work will be re-entered to increase the effectiveness of the State's shareholder function, in line with the recommendations of the General Financial Inspection and the Court of Auditors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u50	in the same way, we have already strengthened the response capacity of the UTAM with more consultants, which have moved from 11 to 14, and which in the short term will increase in more 4. Last month, guidelines were given to UTAM for the publication of the annual reports of companies in the state business sector, and it is expected that the first report will still be made public in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u52	Let us, and we want, to improve the management instruments, in particular the business and budget plans, by betting on simplifying and uniformizing the processes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the last few years have been atypical for the generality of companies in the state business sector, as a result of the overall situation determined by the pandemic, but also of the effects of the current international geopolitical crisis, with relevant budgetary impact. As we mentioned in the State Budget Report for 2023, we remain strongly committed to improving the quality of public services in the state business sector, without neglecting the trajectory of budgetary soundness. Thank you very much for your attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u53	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Costa Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u54	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, « business sector of the state » is a kind of jargon that leaves many, which gives an image of less transparency, less efficiency. In fact, Mr. Deputies of the Liberal Initiative has already used to spread this prejudice here. But it is important, in this debate, to remind the Portuguese of what we are really talking about: the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), the infrastructures of Portugal, Docapesca, the ports, hospitals, among so many other companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u56	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u57	Being a business sector of the State is to be a more agile, more autonomous state of political power, more responsible for the decisions that are made, for good and for evil. It is to be closer to people, but with rules, with rigour, with more control. [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] It is also very different from private companies—yes! — because this sector is governed by the public interest rather than profit. And there's a big difference between the Socialist Party's bench and the Liberal Initiative's bench: when people need water, health, transport, it's not each for themselves that they will have it, but it's being each for everyone for one, and it's through the State that will ensure more equal opportunities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that really makes a difference in many territories. It makes the difference, for example, in interior territories, that so many of you fill your mouth with saying they want to defend, but when the height of the right to govern comes, they close the public services inside, while we, when it is the time of the Socialist Party to govern, invest inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u58	It's the PS that defends them! Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u59	What about the dams in Trás-os-Montes? It would be better for the municipalities!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u60	That is why the Portuguese must face this debate of the Liberal Initiative with much suspicion. It is that, in fact, when the time comes, they want to privatize public services, but when we look at them, privatisations are so often failed. We are just going to see how many municipalities, from north to south of the country, are trying to reverse water concessions, because—no! — private water companies have no cheaper services, they have more expensive and worse services. This is a good example of how the business sector of the State can make a difference in people's lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course this does not attenuate the requirement that we have to deal with the state business sector, so we are strengthening UTAM, as it has already been announced, and reforming DGTF, where we want to approve business plans and budgets more quickly, hence companies have to have better results — the CP has had the first profit of its history, but there are other examples—... [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] ... and hence the strengthening of investments in Docapesca, Portugal's Infrastructure. Now, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a lot to be done to improve management, to improve scrutiny, but of one thing the Portuguese can be sure: the business sector of the state is an instrument to have a State closer and more at the service of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u61	They talk, they talk, they talk...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u62	To speak also on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, this debate so far confirms a little of what were the suspicions we had about the reasons of the proposer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u64	The debate has started now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u65	... because we have not heard from the Liberal Initiative any consolidated idea about what the business sector of the State should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u66	The debate has yet to begin!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u67	In fact, there are only two origins in the convening of this debate, none of them new and none of them positive. First of all, we have what has become the brand image of the Liberal Initiative in recent times, which is the attempt to exploit cases. Cases, suspects, when they exist, explore, when there is no, try to find, waving some names in the public square and in this case in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u68	It's a lie! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u69	It is in fact the Liberal Initiative in full radicalization and on a populist agenda, which we have recorded and which has been very clear, episode after episode, in and out of this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u70	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u71	But, in addition to this attempt to explore cases, what is structurally involved is, in fact, an attempt to launch suspicion about the State, it is an attack on the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u72	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u73	... based on a pure prejudice about what state companies are and what role they can and should have the business sector of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u74	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u75	... in a prejudice against public management, which we know, and we heard here, with concrete data, that is actually improving and recovering in relation to the pandemic, even in sectors such as health and transport, that were so affected. Still, we're getting it back. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] Never mention, at any time, the good examples are the policy of the Liberal Initiative: never mention that the practices of public management in Portugal are aligned with the principles and good practices of the OECD, as in fact recognizes the Council of Public Finance, and never mention, for example, that by withdrawing the sectors most affected by the pandemic, the public companies, already in 2021, actually had positive results in their non-financial sector, with 649 million euros of gross added value,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u77	...and, in the financial sector, a positive result of more than 600 million euros. This is what the Liberal Initiative has not done here, and I bet it will not do during this debate, because it never wants to recognise that there is efficient management of public companies in Portugal as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that this financial point is not even the main point, because the analysis of the State's business sector in Portugal cannot remain by financial criteria. Of course, for the Liberal Initiative and perhaps for the right, this does not matter, because neither the usefulness nor the strategic importance of having a solid business sector, made sustainable, while also correcting the effects of options taken in the past exactly on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very important, indeed, to reaffirm this point. In PS, we do not agree with this option, which is purely ideological, of not having a solid business sector, transparent, well managed, strong, in strategic sectors, in which not only the interest of profit is pursued, but the interest of the country. This is the public management we defend; this is the business sector we defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u79	I will finish, Madam President. We will not abdicate this, in favor of an ideological vision that sees only the market, the private, as if it were all positive in private and not the opposite. We see balanced management and, above all, we see a public sector that must also have a role to play in strategic sectors. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u80	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : In Portugal, we have about 150 companies held by the State, i.e. in which the State is sole shareholder, or participates by the State. If there are cases where such a requirement is justified, others need to raise the greatest doubt. In fact, public companies suffer from some original dangers or sins: they do not go bankrupt and always have great availability of financing of the banking system, because the guarantee of the state is absolute for the financiers; the risk assessment is questionable, because in the end, money is from the Portuguese; in many cases, trade union and transparency do not abound, either. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] But worse: these companies can often be used as mere political gambling weapons, marked by personal or partisan interests, indifferent to the reality of the market in which they operate and with an intrusion of the shareholder State that negatively exceeds the strategic planning function of a present but not intrusive shareholder. If these risks always exist, when we speak in the Socialist Government, the picture gets worse and it is confirmed. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] in our eyes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the mother of all the jokes emerges, the brutally visible face of all bad socialists together: the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). TAP is today public, because the PS has decided that this is how socialism was fulfilled. TAP is now public, because 3200 million euros have been buried there, i.e., each Portuguese contributed 320 € to the party. The TAP is public, with cuts, redundancies and chaotic management, all wrapped up in such a restructuring plan that the Government has always refused to present to this Parliament in full. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u82	He let it go, do you want to see? Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u83	TAP is now public, as we know, with unprepared politicians, liars and disillusioned to intervene and interfere in all management decisions, where state representatives are absent or incompetent in their role. TAP is now public, with cuts of impossible wages in any private company and with makeup results of positives at the cost of these same cuts. He taught Trucks that "the weak king makes strong people weak" and the socialist shareholder state proves it. Even TAP's greatest wealth, its workers, who proudly wore the company's shirt, are today receiving less pay and watching the parade of scandals and money scrapping, which was also taken away from them. But the irony of the irony, the flag company, the new caravelas, the TAP of the people, paid by the people and with the people to send, the TAP where 3200 million euros have been sunk, today, after all, has to be privatized. Yes, the socialists, the same socialists, with the same arrogant conviction they had a few years ago, when they decided to nationalize the company, today they declare, without shame and shame, that such a TAP must be delivered to the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u84	To save the company!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u85	Before the obvious question "and the money we buried there? They replied: "We do not expect to recover all of what we have injected there. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u86	Restructuring! Restructuring! Save the company!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u87	You want to ask, then, why didn't you stay still? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this framework of what we know, we all tremble at thinking about what is not yet known about the TAP and other public companies. So much money, so much room to fill, so much opacity. The framework of lies, ambushes, omissions and irresponsibility has been particularly visible in the TAP Committee of Inquiry, which only envelops this Parliament in its role as government supervisory. This will be the habit of ‘ getting used to! » what was the Prime Minister offering us months ago? One thought remains: who pays this million-dollar pledge after millions of euros in the TAP and the others? Let's guess: the Portuguese. Always the Portuguese and always the same Portuguese. It is possible to do better, much better, and for that, the PSD will be ready as soon as it is called. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u88	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister : We understand today why Mr. Minister of Economy is not here and we understand even better why Mr. Minister of Infrastructure is not here. [[The PSD member's laughter António Cunha.]] We understand why it is not, in fact, the Ministers who protect important companies from the state: one is because he resigned yesterday and stopped being fired at 8 a.m. at midnight; the other is because he knows the disaster that has been the management of public enterprises by the Socialist Government. Mr President, in his speech just now, said that we can see a general improvement in the state business sector. I think that anyone who was seeing us this afternoon, after what has been known about TAP in recent months, listening to Mr. Secretary of State say « we can see a general improvement in the business sector of the State », went straight to the Sunday evening programs to make a joke with whom he works. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] [[Protests by PS Deputies Miguel Cabrita and Miguel Matos.]] In fact, if this is not to enjoy those who work with it, it is to enjoy the Portuguese, who are seeing the public money being used in "partisans" of the Socialist Party, in manipulation of results, in lies. And Mr. Secretary of State has the opportunity to come here and say that everything is going very well. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it's not worth running away from what's essential. TAP is showing how public enterprises are managed by the Socialist Party: with lies behind lies, for example, the lie of those who said that there had not been meetings, but after all there had been and even was at the request of the government that these meetings existed. Mr. Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party, is here today, embarrassed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u91	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u92	... back there, looking at the computer, in the last row of the socialist bench, instead of assuming to be part of the biggest public management shame we've been used to for so many years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The man who was always at the front of the economic debates, the man who was the confidence of the Socialist Party's bench, right here in the front line, today is ashamed, in the last row of Parliament, while the TAP sinks with the taxpayer's taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u93	Mr. Carlos Pereira, don't be ashamed. Come here forward and assume what you have done, on behalf of the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Conditionings and lies! They use the state apparatus and public companies as the Socialist Party apparatus. Now, stand still: there is even beating within the ministries! [[PS laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u94	That's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u95	Go see your office!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u96	It's just to see how they behave outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u97	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for creating the conditions for the speaker to continue his speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to recover your intervention time in 20 seconds. [[Rice from PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u99	You've stopped the time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u100	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u101	We even had a situation in the Ministry of Infrastructure, with the SIS ( Security Information Service ) mixing, the Public Security Police, in an act which the Prime Minister considered deplorable within the Ministry. That is how you introduce yourselves here today! The ar autos of good management are responsible for the management of lies, for the management of damage and, now, for the management of the pancadery that exists in the ministries of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS Miguel Cabrite.]] Mr. Secretary of State, the management of the TAP raises us suspicions that in the main companies of the state, the total regabofe, the total bandalleira, the total appropriation of these companies by the Socialist Party and the use of these positions for the benefit of the Socialist Party itself. Yes, Madam President, because anyone who uses secrets for his own benefit certainly uses public enterprises for even more personal gain! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, of the 148 accounts reports delivered by companies in the state business sector, only 79 were approved by the guardianship. Subline : Of the 148 accounts reports of companies in the state business sector, only 79 were approved by the guardianship. More than one third of public companies are in technical bankruptcy — one third! This Secretary of State presents himself here saying: "It's all right and we notice a significant improvement. Mr Secretary of State, since they do not want to send ministers, since they do not want to send those responsible, at least do us all a favor: do not come here to insult Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u104	Do not come here to play the role they ask you to play, because it is an honestly deplorable role to come here to deceive and enjoy with the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u105	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u106	I shall conclude by saying this, Madam President, that is the challenge of a major investigation, which this country needs not only to TAP, but also to the main companies of the State. Perhaps there we understand how socialist dust is no longer just a business dust. It is a dust of our democracy, destroying it inside every day. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u107	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot go through this debate without talking about health management. The various problems of the National Health Service ( SNS) are known and derive mainly from the concept of the model, in which the State adds the functions of funder, regulator, provider and solidarity, but also corporates the failures of management and strategy. This is a standardized, politicized and centralized model in the SNS, dominated by ideological prejudices against the private sector, aimed at competition and hostile to freedom of choice. I recall the example of PPPs ( public-private partnerships ), which had high levels of satisfaction for their users and professionals, which were more efficient and generated savings for the state. Still, this government insisted on putting an end to them. What do we have, then? Oh, my God! SNS hospitals completely broken and without any response capacity, without autonomy to hire or retain professionals and without autonomy to buy, replace or repair damaged or obsolete equipment. With this, in order to address the failures, for example, of these professionals, it is used to hire the so-called 'jobs', spending much more money than if there was a structured solution, with autonomy to respond and to ensure the appropriate conditions of attractiveness. at the same time, debts to external suppliers fire, payment deadlines for these debts increase and the negotiating power of the State decreases. Mrs. Members, this is not a good state management. For the Liberal Initiative, the National Health System has to work closer to people, with more market incentives, always ensuring the protection of those who need the most, and, at the level of management, it has to rely on principles of transparency, efficiency and intergenerational sustainability. It has to be a system that bets on prevention and health promotion, and that values future health gains, without its financing being always at the mercy of the will or political need of the moment. All this is public service, but none of this is guaranteed by the SNS today, and all because the state is bad manager. He is a bad manager of the SNS, he is a bad manager of the public thing, he is a bad manager of the public money and thus compromises everyone's right to health. So we have over 1 million and 600 thousand people without a family doctor; so we have rows of people, from early morning to health centres, as we saw, yesterday, in Algueirão-Mem Martins, and that repeat throughout the country; so in December, we had more than half a million people waiting for a first hospital consultation, and more than half of these people were already above the maximum allowed waiting time. Meanwhile, we watch scenes like those that happened yesterday, which call into question trust in institutions, which show no respect for the difficulties people experience in their daily lives, in health, in education, in transport, in housing, in justice. In health, it is the quality of care delivery that is at stake, and we all know what that means. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, it is not worth saying that quality is duly audited and independently, because, if the Government had nothing to fear, the Socialist Party would have approved the requirement of the Liberal Initiative for the Minister of Health to come to the Assembly of the Republic to explain the grave accusations that were made about a possible political interference in the Regulatory Health Entity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who shouldn't be afraid! I conclude by saying that if we do not change structurally and courageously the current health model in Portugal, we will condemn Portugal and, essentially, the most vulnerable to an increasingly sick, poorest and socially unjust country. That is not the ambition of the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u110	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Liberal Initiative seeks to take advantage of the regrettable situations of recent weeks to promote the privatization agenda of public enterprises, as in fact it was clear in the initial intervention and the intervention we have just heard. This is the speech of the Liberal Initiative, and this was the practice of the PSD Government / CDS, which privatized everything that could, from the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ) to the EDP ( Energies de Portugal ), from the TAP to the EGF, from the CP Load to the ANA ( Airports de Portugal ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u112	It was them! It was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u113	All these privatisations meant the delivery of strategic companies to foreign capital, to multinationals, and they were highly harmful both from the point of view of public finances and from the point of view of the services they provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u114	That was all the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u115	With the privatization of mails, for example, today the service is much worse, the populations are worse served, the stations close and the state no longer has the resources that come from the profits that CTT gave each year while it had public management. With the privatisation of EDP, Portugal ceased to have control over a strategic company and the profits of that company began to go abroad. In a few years, they have already recovered 80 % of what they spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u116	"China Business"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u117	In TAP, privatization was actually an offer to David Neeleman, selling TAP with TAP money itself. With this management, what we had was the deepening of the company's harmful management practices. It was even private management that brought Alexandra Reis to TAP administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u119	When the entire aviation sector had problems arising from the pandemic, the privates did not want to take responsibility and wanted to let the company die. Yes, sir. Members, the problems of the TAP result from private management practices that marked administration management before and after privatization, before and after the increase in public capital. With the privatisation of ANA, there has been no investment in national airports.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u120	What about before? What about before? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u121	Since it was privatized, there has never been an investment in national airports and the government has placed itself as a hostage to multinational Vinci for strategic projects for the future of the country, as is the case with the decision on the new airport. of the 15 largest airports in the European Union, there is no one who has any public shareholder position, contrary to what happens in the case of ANA, after the privatisation decided by the PSD Government / CDS. In CP Cargo, privatization meant selling one of the most profitable parts of the company, which then allowed to compensate for the other services, which are not profitable, nor have to be, in addition to their strategic role. In the EGF, the waste sector became a business, rather than a public service, which generates millions every year for Mota-Engil and others. The Liberal Initiative today lends itself to a role that has already been assumed by other parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u122	O of the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u123	...which is the leading role of the launch, is the role of a defender of business interests and privatization that prepares itself in a set of sectors. Therefore, my question will be right for the Government and the Socialist Party. The PS yielded to the right in the case of TAP, yes. For those who have heard Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, it seems that the government is not prepared to privatize TAP, doing exactly what the Liberal Initiative and PSD want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u125	They're privatizing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u126	Therefore, if the PS gave in to the right in the case of TAP, we ask what more is it going to yield, or if, on the contrary, the Socialist Party will catch up and stop thinking about the management of private companies in the sense of privatization. Yes, sir. Members, because there are many ways of privatizing: there is the direct way, which is to deliver directly to the private, and there is an indirect way, which is to let services, service to the population be degraded, and thus to promote a logic of privatization. That is what we cannot accept. That is the restructuring that the Socialist Party's Government needs: a restructuring of policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u128	I will finish, Madam President. The Government of the Socialist Party needs a remodeling of policies to stop serving the interests of the multinationals to which these companies were handed over and to leave the privatization logic that is now preparing to apply in the case of TAP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u129	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Liberal Initiative has already spent more than 10 minutes of this debate and has not been able to say that the company that almost brought Portugal to bankruptcy in the last decade was private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u131	It was José Socrates! PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u132	It was called BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and was held by the one who was recognized as « the owner of all this».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u133	BES was from Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u134	Therefore, on private management, on the promiscuity between the public and the private and on the lack of defence of the public interest, the Liberal Initiative, the only thing you have to say is « if it is private, it is good; if it is public, it is bad», when it was the private management that almost led the country to bankruptcy. Even the crisis of the euro area—remember well! — was not born in public banks, was born in private banks, a crisis which then led the country to known difficulties. What does the Liberal Initiative say about that? Nothing! He realizes that history did not exist, he whistles forward and hopes that no one will remember. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] In fact, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, even today came out an article in the Public of his banker Carla Castro, talking about the need to put ceilings on pensions and give much more freedom to pension funds, exactly on the same day that we learned that some of the European pension funds are going bankrupt. This is the responsibility, correct, that is the irresponsibility of the Liberal Initiative on this matter. So this idea that, between the public and the private, the private is always better is false, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It's fake! It is that the private can be as badly or more mismanaged than the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u135	Maybe! Well, you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u136	Now we will not be in a position to defend the government, in this lack of structural management of state enterprises. Mr Secretary of State, how did you manage to spend 6 minutes talking about this issue and not say a single word, one word, one word, about TAP, about the case of the Minister of Infrastructure, who lied to the country, and about how the Government of the Socialist Party managed the company? At each meeting where we heard the workers, it seemed most likely that the Ministry of Infrastructure was within the TAP company administration. Now that she starts giving some kind of profit, they deliver the company to the private. Is this the PS choice? When it makes profits, it delivers itself to privates; when it hurts, it remains in the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u137	TAP is damaging!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u138	We've seen this in the past and seen that it won't stop at TAP. It is precisely this week that there is another news that the Government of the Socialist Party is studying the possibility, with regard to the expansion of the Lisbon Metro, of the private also entering the exploitation of the Lisbon Metro. Mr. Secretary of State, is this the choice of the Socialist Party? Now, is the new matrix of the absolute majority the privatization? It is because the Socialist Party, in 2015, when it reached the government, stopped privatisations, particularly in the transport sector, renationalized the TAP and now what we are told is: « It is inevitable to privatize the TAP and we want to open the door to the privates also in the Metro of Lisbon. Do not keep on seeking. ” Is that the new choice of the Socialist Party? Privatize what makes profit and what is structural? After all, has the Socialist Party's ideological matrix turned to the one that's always been the one? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government : The Liberal Initiative brings us a debate about the business sector of the State in which it has not dedicated a word to the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u141	There's still time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u142	We cannot follow a logic of the lesser evil or a perspective of «the rings have been and the fingers have remained ». This also extends to the intervention of the government itself, which said nothing about the process of privatization which is imminent, as if this whole process was not enough to be affected and disturbed which has been the management of the TAP, harmful even to the public interest. We have a company in which more than EUR 3 billion of the public record has been injected, we do not know what forms it will be privatised and there is no satisfaction to Parliament. Above all, there is no satisfaction to the Portuguese, who have seen, in the last year, their legitimate concerns placed in the drawer about this process, and, more importantly, to the workers of the company themselves, who do not know what they can expect from this process of privatisation of TAP. In fact, we do not understand that narrative. We would like to take advantage of the government's presence so that, once and for all, if you take advantage of this debate and can — at least — have that merit — tell what is coming. In fact, the unions have already warned about the risks of dismissal. More: we had the case of the New Bank. Are we going to have a note of what the negotiations behind the scenes were about the injection of money camouflaged?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u143	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u144	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. What can the Portuguese expect from the Government in relation to the privatization of TAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u145	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome the Liberal Initiative for the marking of this debate on « the business sector of the state », reading, in a small letter, « how to end it. It's an easy recipe. First, it is to consider the business sector of the guilty State to prove otherwise: when the State sector has different practices from the private ones, it is guilty of it; when the private ones have practices that we all realize that they do not have social value, they are numb, while those of the State are diabolized. Secondly, it is to narrow down the scope of the State's functions, to say that the State cannot play its role in doing this or doing that and, ultimately, after withdrawing what is profitable to the State, decapitalizing, privatizing, with the excuse that it does not make profit, and eventually even granting or monetizing. One day, even the Assembly of the Republic — the Liberal Initiative will have some rotating ideas — can be set to profit. I don't know, we can do some funny things with youubers and then monetize on Google or YouTube. But, against this, we must not defend the opposite idea that everything in the state sector is great and everything in the private sector is bad. We must defend the idea that an economy must be plural: it must have a private sector, it has a function; it must have a public sector, it has a function; it must have a cooperative sector and even have companies for which we have not yet legislated and on which we should legislate in Portugal, as social enterprises, which have no profit function, which must reinvest its profits, and state enterprises in new areas, which today are small, but which may become large, in the future, as we have already had, and with value, and we have lost. In conclusion: what we must not do is let the public debate agitate the State sector, until we reach a point where state enterprises are privatized not because they damage—because they even make profits, some of them—but because they hurt politicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u147	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u148	It is good that they give a headache to politicians and that is not why they should be privatized. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u149	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, Pedro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that, in fact, after we have attended a series of pro-privateization arguments, pro-social state, the Government remains committed to ensuring the social function of these companies. The issue of health has been mentioned several times. As I said in the opening of the debate, it is true that this is the main sector we have. It is a sector in which we have invested significantly in recent years to respond to a serious problem that has plagued us all. We have made significant changes, for example, at the level of the Statute of the National Health Service, with the new Statute. We are proceeding with some reorganisations — for example, one of the first measures I have taken was to approve the merger of two hospitals. We are also, as already mentioned, reorganizing the hospital network, adopting a model of organization and operation in ULS (local health units) and betting on services of greater proximity. Some insinuations were made here that, in my speech, I said it was all right. No, it's not all right, we have room to improve. There was no data manipulation. The data are those that are public and are available on the UTAM website. If there is evidence that there is profit itself, I think we must come to the ground and be more concrete. It has also been mentioned that there is a lack of control. Let me reiterate what I have already said, that, in fact, the system that we have today and that is in line with the good practices of the OECD, allows us, in some way, to control misleading situations. Whatever payments exceed the approved budget must be approved by the guardianship, otherwise public managers may be civil, criminal and financially accountable. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] We have the business and budget plans, through which we define a set of rules and limits that cannot fail to be observed. There has been talk about increasing uncontrolled indebtedness, but that is not the case. There are rules for that. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] We also have the Statute of the Public Manager, which obliges — and will force, with management contracts — greater accountability. The information system I talked about is parameterized to generate alerts and we can avoid situations like this. Therefore, several ideological questions have been referred here, which I don't think should be commenting on. The question is to continue, as I have told you, to contribute so that, in a demanding and rigorous way, by seeking to simplify, by seeking to improve what is needed to improve and seek to bet on transparency — and we therefore give guidelines for UTAM to publish the data — we certainly fight for a more transparent and stricter business sector of the State. Management contracts will finally be signed, and I'm not here to play. Believe me, I'm not here to play with anybody's money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u151	What about the contracts? What's it like? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u152	I have a life of 20 years of public service and, therefore, I am here to do my best and to contribute so that we can actually have a more effective business sector and, of course, less burdening the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And now, perhaps, I would put the floor to my colleague, who will also say a few things.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u153	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State João Nuno Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to talk about the question of the privatisation of TAP, which was a matter discussed, just to highlight what happened last week, and which was the start of the evaluation process of the two independent evaluations, which are necessary as a condition for the Government to take the final decision of the TAP privatisation later. This will be done by means of a decree of law, and subsequently the specification of charges approved by the Council of Ministers resolution. I would also like to stress why the PAT is 100 % public. A fundamental reason occurred in mid 2020, when EUR 1200 million of emergency aid was needed, approved by the European Commission and there was no viable private investment of either its shareholders or any other potential shareholders capable of being brought to the TAP. Only the State could save TAP. From March to June, it was a counterwatch, a counterdown, with the money to finish! The money would end up in the TAP if the State had not entered with an emergency aid approved by the European Union in extremes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u155	Because they lent it to him!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u156	That is the fundamental reason why TAP is 100 % public. Only the state could save TAP, no one else. I would like to stress the international practices — good practices, as my colleague pointed out — which are subject to public undertakings that are part of the State business sector. The Assembly of the Republic has an extraordinarily important role here, because it is in the law of the State budget that adopts the financial rules in which public undertakings move, then embodied in the decree of execution of the budget. And the rules are very tight for everyone. It is very demanding to be a public manager of a company in the state business sector, with the limitation of indebtedness, which has a specific parameter; the control of investments to be carried out, as investments all have to be justified; the limitation of operational costs compared to turnover, which is what is called, in the management of companies, of cost-to-incomine ratio; and the increase in productivity. All these matters have parameters defined in the State budget law, in the law of budgetary implementation, and public managers have to deal with these rules in order to contribute to the sustainability of public accounts, and have limitations on the prices they can carry out in the public services they provide. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have, throughout my working life, dealt with many public managers and have to say that the rule is to be extremely dedicated, competent people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u157	PS competition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u158	... that work late, during the night, at the weekend, always loaded with a huge responsibility, for the public service to be provided. I therefore believe that in this sense we have a great responsibility here, in the whole of the Assembly of the Republic, that it is not to take advantage of a debate on the business sector of the State to seek to deny the activity of many people, who are very competent, who are honest, who carry a great responsibility and who sometimes do not have nights and do not have weekends. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u159	Of other parties too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u160	This is the reality with which, as Secretary of State of the Treasury and Secretary of State of Finance, I have faced. It is important to say that we must be one of the countries of Europe which most public companies have within the law of the State budget and within the public perimeter. Very few companies are outside the public perimeter. There's no budgeting! The State Budget proposals are detailed on public enterprises and one cannot now discover the business sector of the State, it is within the State Budget, which you assess and approve in the Assembly of the Republic every year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u161	Done at 1. The round, we go to 2. the round and to speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u162	Mr President, after more than one hour of debate, we have seen everything but the debate on what matters to the good governance of the state business sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u163	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u164	The right, in particular those who have convened this debate, has tried, during this most hour of debate, to cast mud, both for the business sector of the State, both for the Socialist Party's bench, and for the work the Government has done. We also saw Mr. André Ventura, who I do not see in this plenary...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u165	He went to give a press conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u166	I was wondering if it was in the last row, but the arrival does not have any Members to the last row and is therefore not present in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u167	Calm down! Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u168	We also saw — Mr Ventura said — that Mr Ventura disagreed about the location in the plenary, where the Socialist Party Members sit. Now, the Socialist Party Members are 120, the Members of the Party are 12 — 10 times less — and the Members of the Socialist Party sit wherever they want in this plenary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] What I am sure is that no member of this bench accepts ethics lessons from your party's Members,... [[Uh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u169	...that not only reduces the deepest values of democracy as you have had a deplorable behavior, either out there or in this House, as you have seen over the past few weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And so, Madam President, going to what matters,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u170	We're trembling with fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u171	... of the Liberal Initiative, we have had a usual exercise of demonization of everything that is public and of devaluation of State intervention in the sectors that are of national interest. They do not speak, for example, of the General Deposit Box, which still announced historical profits yesterday. And they do not speak because, in your view, the State should have already alienated the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u172	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u173	...which shows that you haven't learned anything from the last financial crises...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u174	Nothing! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u175	... nor with its impact on people's lives and our economy. So, no, we don't share this vision. We do not share the view of this neoliberalism to Portuguese, which defends the privatization of profits and the nationalization of losses,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as it was seen during the pandemic, in which the Liberal Initiative was the first party to defend that the State — using your logic, all the public resources that the Portuguese put at the service of the State — should nationalize the damages that were from the private. We do not share this view of a minimal state, which, on the other hand, results in a jungle of « saving whoever can», where those with power and more opportunities are saved and others are delivered to themselves. And we understand that the social state is the best guarantor of equal opportunities and a decent society that leaves no one behind. Therefore, Madam President, we believe that there are sectors which, because of their importance and taking into account national interest, must be kept in the public sphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u177	What needs to be done is what the Government of the Socialist Party has done: investing in public enterprises, ensuring their viability and ensuring that they are managed professionally and ensuring the public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u178	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Diogo Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u179	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, we have seen UTAM in several reports to note the positive developments of the main indicators. This type of scrutiny, of this entity, is of such importance that guidelines will be given to ensure that, by continuing the principle of greater transparency, reports are quarterly and annual in relation to the business sector of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u181	The governance model, as Mr State Secretary of this sector mentioned recently, according to OECD reports, is aligned with international principles and good practices, as the Council of Public Finance recognizes. However, as he has also pointed out, there is room for some improvements, such as in reports and accounts — which, due to some specificities in some areas, may lead to some delays, which are not of course desirable — but also in management contracts which will be implemented shortly, as in the new information system, in the strengthening of the UTAM itself and in the simplification of procedures, where improvements are expected. And above all, following the recommendations of the Council of Public Finance and the Court of Auditors, increasing the capacity of DGTF. I understand—in fact, I think we all understand — the enthusiasm that the business sector causes in the different political quadrants of this House, but the truth is that we should look at the main companies and the main cases point to point. With regard to the COP, the situation of the bars is already resolved. As far as ports are concerned, there are currently no major problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u183	With regard to the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital, both the Santa Casa da Misericórdia and the Parpublica are evaluating the company to study the best way to solve the known problems. For this reason, Dear Members, we have action and commitment from the government on several fronts. We all know the requirement that exists in this sector, but the truth is that public enterprises have a relatively limited management margin, since the Budget Framework Act imposes a very tight control of rules that have to be complied with — and well! — so that we all have the necessary confidence in our institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u184	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u185	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, almost 50 years after the establishment of the IPE ( State Participation Institute ), the State business sector consists of 148 companies, representing 2, 6 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ) and 3, 2 % of employment. However, the state's quota responsibilities reach around EUR 18 billion, more than triple their contribution to GDP, as a result of decades of injury. Even arguing that the year 2021 presents a recovery of the economic and financial indicators of these companies, this is not sufficient to contradict the Portuguese-assimilar idea that the State spends millions of euros on its companies, harming other sectors of public activity. These and other conclusions are explicit in the last report of the Council of Public Finance — they are public data — but it is also highlighted that of the 87 non-financial enterprises in the State, 60 are damaged, which reached EUR 3 million. of these companies, 32 — repeat, 32! — they were in technical bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] [[L and PCP Member Protests Duarte Alves.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that the financial situation of the state's business sector is historically negative for public accounts, but at some point it is essential to stop the deficit, which affects the present and compromises the future. However, it is necessary to explain, with total transparency, where and how public money is applied. Business plans, budgets and reports and accounts must be drawn up and approved in a timely manner, contrary to the fact that only half of the companies have their accounts approved by their guardianship.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u187	Worse : it is inconceivable and incomprehensible that six of the public companies have not even submitted their reports and accounts. Among them are Efacec and TAP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the inefficiencies of the management of state enterprises, often subject to short-term erratic options or a mere party game of the Government, led to the accumulation of losses incurred by the State which already reaches the EUR 18 billion, the equivalent of the PRR bacuca ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). Why does this happen? Is it an inquisitive, disloyalty, and incompetence? Or why does the government simply not rule? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u188	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Barbosa de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u190	The PSD also believes that, regardless of ownership, the public management of companies can, of course, function as long as certain conditions are found. Conditions such as having political decision-makers focused only on the collective interest, and it has not always been seen;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u191	Or almost never!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u193	It's true! [[Protests by PS Deputies Jamila Madeira and Miguel Cabrita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u194	... conditions such as choice of persons and professional management teams, serious, technically prepared,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u195	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u196	... and it has not always been seen;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u197	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u198	... conditions like a government that lets management teams work without constant political interference, and this has not always been seen. [[PSD applause.]] The socialist governments have clearly not met these demands. The report of the Public Finance Council says everything, just read it. The business sector of the state, which has already been remembered here, is a mix of companies of a thousand and one thing different from each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u199	But do they have to be all the same? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u200	over the decades, there were entities that arrived in the business sector of the state to allow agile management, and well. Others, not so well, to hide public spending.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u201	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u203	Others, even worse, don't even know why! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] You don't know why they came in and you don't know why they're still there! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u204	You have to make the list, so we can see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u205	However, attention to what is happening in these entities has not been at the level of resources that they absorb—it is our fault, perhaps—and perhaps some are in luxury, as has already been said, that they do not provide public information on mission, activity and accounts, which is simply unexplainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u206	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u207	The government has to walk over these entities, it has to rise the requirement of those who manage to improve management, of course! And, of course, it has to assess, always and constantly, its performance. This was certainly expected, Mr. Secretary of State, of the Technical Unit for Monitoring and Monitoring of the Public Business Sector of the State — the full name of the UTAM is said because it is pompous — but when we visit its own website on the Internet, we realize how far UTAM is from what we all expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u209	Mr Secretary of State, moreover, came here to say: « Finally, we will strengthen. It's now! Where we've heard this speech from « is now that we're going to strengthen UTAM, it's now! "? [[PSD applause.]] Look, Mr. Secretary of State, we'll all be very careful to see if something really changes or if it gets all the same, as usual in the socialist government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u210	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u211	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, I want to take a look at this story of coming here trying to accuse the Arrival of whatever it is in the absence of Mr. André Ventura. [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u212	They're so sensitive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u213	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I'm going to tell you one thing: we don't take moral lessons from who, during the weekend, shared manipulated photographs, with the face and body of our leader, who were completely false.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u215	And you should be ashamed to do. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u216	For the next I hope for André Ventura!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u217	But let's talk about what brings us here today, which is the business sector of the state. This debate began in an interesting way, because it began with Mr. Miguel Matos, who is not here, talking about the importance of companies in the supply of water. Next, nor by coincidence, the intervention was from Mr. Miguel Cabrita, and I reminded myself of the SIMAR ( Intermunicipalized Water and Waste Services of the Municipalitys of Loures and Odivelas ), a municipal waste and water company providing Odivelas and Loures — Odivelas, where the Member is President of the Municipal Assembly. And the first question I leave to you, Mr Secretary of State, is whether or not you consider that, for example, the Portuguese pay three times the water that is supplied in Odivelas. They pay through the State Budget, with the support given to EPAL ( Portuguese Free Water Company ), pay through the municipal budget of Odivelas and Loures, since municipal budgets pay SIMAR, and pay in invoice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u218	But are we in the Municipal Assembly?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u219	That is, the business sector of the state presents double and triple invoices to the population. It is managed in such a way that you cannot justify it, and then they say that it has to do with public supply. We have no problem looking at the results and realizing, as has already been said today, that more than a third of state business companies are broken. But most of them are because of mismanagement, because of the militant cards of the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] No one pronounces about what happened to Transtejo, where they bought the boats and forgot to buy the batteries! And we keep playing with the public money. Let's make one thing clear: There's no ideological reserves in here. We have no problem with realizing that there are companies that must be under the sphere of state.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u220	For example?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u221	The only thing we are completely against is in relation to your Cuban and Korean view of more state and less private. [[Deputies from PS Ivan Gonçalves and Miguel Cabrite.]] Because they have this view that everything must be in the hands of the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u222	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u223	The state must not be a player, it must be a regulator! But we also do not have the vision of the Liberal Initiative — very much linked to the Foz and the Royal Prince — that you think everything should be privatized. No, it should not all be privatized, but when we look at certain sectors, especially for health PPPs, we realize that there has been a direct benefit to the state. You destroyed them and created the EPE(business public entities ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u224	Was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u225	And we could go again to get Mr. Miguel Cabrito to explain what he was doing in Odivelas and how he has a face to go to Odivelas when the passage to EPE ruined the Beatriz Angelo Hospital. Because the reality is this: while it was in the hands of the private, with the PPP, things worked.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u226	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u227	We could talk about the health issue and what they're doing with the ACES (grouping of health centers)... But even though it screams that it's fake. It was appropriate to say « although it is good for me to ask this question», and you know why? Because yesterday’s news says that hundreds of people waited for assistance at the Odivelas Health Center — in their county hall — and only ten passwords were made available! Because the health system, in the hands of the public, is destroyed! I'm glad you asked that question, but I'm glad you came here to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u228	He didn't even talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u229	What we do is demand good management, because you don't manage or let you manage! You continue to create problems. I will give you another example of a double taxation: you do not support the culture and the National Theatre of São Carlos is supported by a public company. The sustainability of the Teatro de São Carlos is achieved through the State Budget, but to go to the theatre in Portugal it is necessary to be rich. To be able to go to theatre, a family—which is the nuclear base of society and which you try to destroy—from four people spend about 200 €, and yet the theatre is supported by a state enterprise. You're still taxing! Finally, on this issue of the State business sector, and after all that was raised in the PCI ( parliamentary commission of inquiry ) of TAP, last night, listening to the Prime Minister trying to throw the government to the ground with the lack of institutional respect he had toward Mr. President of the Republic, I was absolutely sure that he wanted to throw the government to the ground because he is afraid that in addition to the ICC of TAP, more ICCs are created in relation to other companies in the State business sector and that half a dozen people are being arrested. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u230	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u231	Mr President, after the first round, I think it is necessary to clarify a number of parliamentary seats — namely the Socialist Party, the Left Block and others — on the subject of this debate and what the Liberal Initiative here has been talking about, the State business sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u232	It didn't look like it! Do you remember now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u233	They have not heard from the Liberal Initiative, in this debate, any defence of privatization of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u234	No, just the minimum state!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u235	We could be doing it because we defend it for some, but that is not what we came here to debate. Therefore, excuse throwing poppy bugs on this side. Because if the privatisations that started in Portugal in the late 1980s had not occurred, perhaps, we would be here today to discuss the problems in a public company that was in Unicer. We would be discussing a brewery here, instead of talking about the problems that occur in an airline,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u236	What's the matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u237	... because the Socialist Party's gentlemen put their hands on everything, in operational management! So we would be here to debate how a socialist government had put its hands on beer and tremors!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u238	No, no tremors!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u239	But we could also be talking about PT ( Portugal Telecom ), which was privatized, everything that happened after and how the PS used that banquet for its benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u240	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u241	But that's not what we came here to talk about. Mr. Miguel Cabrita likes to come and throw poppy bugs, to see if he does a smoke curtain to try to hide the Socialist Party's troops, as if, over the time he is in Parliament, the Liberal Initiative had not already presented concrete and specific proposals to resolve and, in particular, to improve public management, for example in health or transport, as has happened in the past few weeks, with the Liberal Initiative's own agendas. So when you come, at least speak truly, don't come and tell lies. [[Applause from the IL.]] And speaking of lies, I am not sending the tweet Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has just done on Twitter, almost saying that the Liberal Initiative defends that there are children 10 years of age working until 2 pm in restaurants—it is a soez attack! — but I will reply to what you came to talk about as if everything that happened in BES was a problem of the Liberal Initiative! We will be very clear about what happened at BES and also about private companies: private profits, private losses. What separates us clearly is that when things go wrong in private, we don't think they have to be taxpayers to solve the problem. [[Protests of L and of PS and BE Members.]] And you, that's what you're defending, it's always taxpayers' money to solve business problems, whether public or private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u242	They paid for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u243	This clearly separates us. [[Applause from the IL.]] Then, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, no, the Liberal Initiative did not come today to speak of the General Deposit Box, although it is a company that we defend that must be privatized, but today we did not come to defend that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u244	It's on your show!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u245	And why didn't we talk about the General Deposit Box today? Why would it be? Maybe because it's a company that's well run, it's no problem. But it has another feature besides being well managed, is that the administration of the General Deposit Box, contrary to what was the administration of the TAP, does not let the Socialist Party lay hands on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u246	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u247	Did the Socialist Party put your hand in the box? Do you really want to talk about the General Deposit Box and its relationship with the Socialist Party? Will we remind ourselves of the times of Santos Ferreira and Armando Vara and what they were doing of the General Deposit Box? You should be ashamed when you talk about public management. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u248	Shame! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u249	We are here today to defend good management, whether public or private, and today, in this debate, it is the public management that is at stake. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u250	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in this debate, we have different degrees of who defends privatization more. We see the PSD here saying that public enterprises are all bankrupt — which does not even correspond to the truth, as it has now been recognized by the Liberal Initiative itself — but it is extraordinary that the PSD says this, when it privatized, while it can, all those who profited: the CTTs profited, were privatized; the CP Load gave profit, it was privatized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u252	There was no time for more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u253	All companies that made profits to the State, which yielded income to the State and had public services for the population, the PSD was in favour of privatizing. Now, when we talk about these issues of public management, of private management, that the public is always bad, that the private is always good, as here is the goal of the Liberal Initiative, we cannot forget the case of the bank, which has already been discussed here. It is that the private bank is all handed over to foreign capital, in particular to Spanish capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u254	Xenophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u255	The only national bank is even the public bank, and it's only national because it's public. in a debate in which business facilitators want to pass this idea that public management is always bad, see what happened in the private management of the bank, in the ruinous management that, since 2010, has led the Portuguese to bury more than 20 billion euros to clean up the demands of the private management of the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u256	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u257	And for what? To then hand over these same banks, after cleaning up with the money of the Portuguese, back to the foreign capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u258	What foreigner? Oh, my God! That's xenophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u259	In the case of TAP, which has already been mentioned in the same period, it has received public support of EUR 3, EUR 2 billion. It is much, but it is much less than what was spent with private banks to then hand them over to foreign capital. That is why we ask why the Government insists on this revenue. Mr. Secretary of State said in his speech in the previous round that only the State in that period was in a position to save TAP. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't understand this logic. It is that you want to continue to insist on this logic that, when there is injury, it is the State that pays, when there is profit, for the private. This cannot be, Mr. Secretary of State, because whoever pays, sends. And if it was the Portuguese who paid for cleaning TAP, it must be the Portuguese who sent it to the company and put it to the service of national interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u260	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u261	Because otherwise, we are doing exactly what has been done in the bank over the past few years. What the reality of CTTs, EDPs, ANAs shows is the following: either it is public, or it is no longer investment; or it is public, or resources go outside the country; or it is public, or prices increase and services worsen; or it is public, or the country is hostage to the interests of multinationals for strategic options, as is the case of the future airport; or it is public, or the State is called to pay only when there are losses. We therefore leave here the challenge, once again, to the Socialist Party : that takes a path in this TAP issue, but also in the National Health Service, which has already been mentioned here. What we saw is that hospitals that were PPPs, when they moved to public management, moved to EPE hospitals, where they continue to have the fundraiser, because they have very low statutory capital and because of this, are subject to the fundraiser and have no autonomy to make the necessary investments and to hire the professionals who need it. Therefore, this is another way of turning people against public management and eventually leading to new privatization and surrender to private people, under conditions even more favourable than those they had. This is the challenge we have left here, that they are taking a path to these policies — directly, in the case of TAP, or indirectly, in the case of SNS — to bring water to the mill of privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u262	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u263	This is the path that PS needs, so that it will not let itself continue to lead the Liberal Initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u264	Ball's down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u265	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u266	Madam President: Mr Rui Rocha, leader of the Liberal Initiative, took advantage of May 1, the day on which the achievements of workers' organisations are celebrated, to entrench all these advances, saying, in a great outdoor place here in the streets of Lisbon : "In the liberal countries workers gain more. Do not keep on seeking. ” And, when confronted with the reality of some liberal countries, what the Liberal Initiative did in this plenary, still minutes ago, was exactly what it used to do: victimization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u267	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u268	In fact, they could now say: "No, we did not, after all, deceive ourselves, there are liberal countries in which workers no longer gain, in which workers' rights are not respected, in which minimum wages neither see them, in which, in fact, fundamental rights are denied in a society like Portugal. But no. What did you prefer to do, Mr. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative? Victimization. One more thing in which, in the case of arriving, they take you great advantage. It is that they victimize themselves much better.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u269	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u270	But by the way, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know, until I judge by the large "youtubestic" production of the Liberal Initiative, if you only apologize for what happened there, in that gallery, or if you also apologize for what happened in the Lost Steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u271	Hall nobre.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u272	In the noble hall, in fact. I would also like to know whether the Liberal Initiative, which condemned racism and even colonialism, is now seen in the words of Mr Bernardo Blanco, who, accompanied by youtuber, had an ex-Deputy of this Assembly of the Republic as a result of the paintings in the Hall of Nobre.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u274	It is that this information is relevant. Because the Liberal Initiative is saying, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, « we have nothing to do with the Arrival», but just come a racist youtuber here and, after all, they already have something to do with the Arrival in this matter. [[Protests of Members of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u275	Look now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u276	What does it have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u277	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we staying in? Liberalism, after all, is already cruising a lot in this reality. But I will not focus the debate on the Liberal Initiative, but the government even beats the Liberal Initiative, as so many times it hits the Reach when it diverts the attention of government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u278	You can't be two minutes without talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u279	Mrs. Secretary of State and Minister of State, they are unable to explain why the TAP was strategic in 2017 was indispensable to the country in 2020 and will be privatized in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u280	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u281	The only thing that has changed is that it has been exposed to the country to the absolute inability of the government to manage the TAP. Absolutely incapacity! That is, every shot, every honey, every new news that you get to know, you realize that you don't just put your feet around your hands, you all get wrapped up in TAP. That is, these sins are of the Socialist Party, they are of the Government, they are not of the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u282	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u283	TAP is in fact strategic for the country, it was in 2015, when it was privatized by the right and almost destroyed by Neeleman, it was in 2017, it was in 2020 and it was in 2023. But what we realize is that this choice is to attack what is strategic and makes profit, which is to hand over to the private. We see raising PPPs, particularly in health, but we will also see in other matters, we will see raising PPPs in the Metropolitan of Lisbon and now we see the privatization of TAP. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] It is the new Socialist Party: « Does anything cause problems? Don't call what we're doing; we're always here to give business, business and business. Fuck the state, fuck the state! Do not keep on seeking. ” Then, who will be left to pay back these bills are the usual ones, the workers, those to whom the PS turned behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u284	You've been more friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u285	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u286	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State : We have recently asked directly about the TAP, but have not answered any of the questions that have been asked about reprivatization, and I hope that we will not end this debate without doing so. It was not clear what the issue we had raised, either in relation to the reprivatization model or in relation to redundancies. Therefore, it should be clearer in fact. However, we still want other clarifications, particularly with regard to the Development Bank, in today's debate on State enterprises. The Banco de Fomento, instead of being at the moment helping to capitalise on the companies that are experiencing difficulties because of inflation, had a profit of EUR 23 million, and we spoke of a company that is experiencing total chaos in relation to the resignations that have taken place, one after the other, and that the forecast documents have not been approved in time. Given the fundamental role that the Development Bank plays in the public sector of the State, the question that arises is, of course, with regard to the implementation of the RPP : when are we going to have areas of compliance, audit, risk, in full operation for strengthening bank funds? I wonder when the government will ensure the existence of these key areas so that it can be granted even more supervision in the implementation of the RPP funds, paying attention to the risk of corruption. Finally, with regard to the non-approval of 44 % of the 2021 account reports of companies in the State business sector, Mr. Secretary of State, these are figures that concern us and we do not understand how there is no greater execution of such reports and we ask for when this information to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u287	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u288	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u289	Madam President: This is the last speech of the plenary in this debate and, after an hour and a half of debate, we see that there are those who want to privatize the business sector of the State. They know that the argument does not resist the contradiction and therefore say that this is not what we are talking about here in the plenary session room. Don't! Forget about it for a while. They forget that we want to privatize the General Deposit Box, TAP, RTP, that we would privatize the business sector of the State. Then there are those who even end up privatizing the state business sector, and that's what I'm going back to, because I still want to talk about TAP. There are those who defend the business sector of the state, of which I feel close, because yes, because when we have a public sector it is important to value what we have. But I have missed one thing in this debate, which is to see the defence, which must also be done, of new areas for the business sector of the state, because there is an authentic revolution in energy and there is an ecological transition to be made. And yes, the state should have a small public hydrogen company, which could grow over time, because there are countries that have knowledge transfer agencies and we should have, because we have a crisis in the housing sector and we have to increase the public housing park. The business sector of the state is not only to defend; it is to grow, it is to expand, it is to renew and innovate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u290	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u291	Yes, Madam President. There are peripheral countries, which have no natural wealth and which, for example, with airlines that are from the State — even in a hypercapitalist country, such as Singapore, Singapore Airlines is from the State — conquer continental hubs, which then serve to have a presence in the global market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u293	And that's what Portugal is losing when privatizing a TAP, which gives profit, although it hurts the politicians' head, and that's why they will end privatize.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u295	That, yes, is a huge loss to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u296	We have concluded this debate, we will move on to the closing stage. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, the government's intervention is missing. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, Pedro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u297	Madam President: We came here to talk about the state business sector. We have heard several views, several criticisms, finally, we have gathered some interesting suggestions here, I think that the issue of energy by Mr Rui Tavares can be equationd. But let me focus on what seems to me to be the most relevant one and rebuff here some comments that have been made. It was said that we want to hide public spending. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to hide public expenditure,... [[Protests by PSD Member Alexandre Poço.]] ... most public companies are within the perimeter of the state and therefore are within what is the State budget. It has also been said that we want to let companies work. Yes, companies and managers have management autonomy, and that is where they should perform their duties, and that is why we will also give a signal at the level of management contracts, as I have told you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is autonomy, which is why they are hired. It must not be the government that interferes with direct management, that is why we hire managers, that is why they are selected. We have also talked about the question of the garrote, finally, of hospitals and what cannot be done. No, hospitals can, and the Ministry of Finance has been working directly with the Ministry of Health to approve investment plans, to approve contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u298	All right, Mr. Secretary of State, we're waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u299	We have therefore sought to maintain this cooperation and investment capacity, of course, and as my colleague João Nuno has already pointed out, within those which are the strong constraints imposed on the State budget, which is approved by this House. Therefore, we must not forget that we cannot approve a Budget and then make a raza table and think that we can do everything. This is precisely because we recognize that there are, as I said in my initial speech, aspects of improving, and that is what we want to continue to do. We must continue to invest in strengthening both UTAM and DGTF itself. For example, at DGTF level, and as I said, by placing managers'manuals, good practice manuals, information systems that allow better control of the information provided by companies. All of this, of course, without failing to ensure that the results are the best, that they are set by the programme contracts, that they are accompanied and that managers are held accountable and compensated for the results they achieve. In this way, our conviction, our commitment is to continue, permanently, to seek to improve the way in which public money and taxpayers are managed, without forgetting that we have, in fact, a social pendant in the business sector of the State, that in no way will we cease to defend and promote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u300	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to stress the positive developments that the Public Finance Council portrays between the years 2020 and 2021 and the positive developments that UTAP ( Technical Project Monitoring Unit ) portrays between 2021 and 2022 regarding developments in the state business sector accounts. It is clear that the years of 2020 and 2021 are greatly impacted both by the pandemic and by the TAP's own restructuring plan. I would like to stress that it is 2 % the percentage representing the State's net contribution to the State's business sector. We must not forget that, in these 2 %, we have the health sector with hospitals; we must not forget that we have the road sector, with the payment of annual PPP charges; we must not forget that we have the whole transport sector, which has limitations for public service reasons of the prices that are practised, and we know how important the public transport service is to overcome the challenges of climate change and to provide better transport charges to users. I would also like to stress, in relation to the reference to the banking sector, that, for us, the independence of the banking sector is sacred, being something that we practice and in which we believe deeply. We believe that the way the banking sector is managed in Portugal and has been managed over the past few years makes a big difference from the point of view of its contribution to national economic growth. I would also point out, with regard to the State budget charges with the business public sector, that these 2 % charges I mentioned recently are within the deficit of the State budget — which was 0, 4 % in 2022 — and in the course of the debt reduction itself, which has been widely praised internationally, both by our partners and by the rating agencies. in this national public debt, there is the bulk of the debt of the state business sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u302	We will now move on to the closing phase. To that end, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u303	Madam President: To conclude the debate, I would like to stress the openness that the Government has to discuss with Parliament and the great openness with regard to those which are Parliament's contributions to better business management and a strategic sense that we are trying to print to this same business sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to mention that we believe that the State's business sector has contributed to national economic growth—either the financial sector, or the non-financial sector of the State's business sector—and this is a compliment that we make to public managers and how we have managed to work in an integrated way and with clear processes, I would say, transparent. In fact, I believe that part of the interventions — not of course, the whole, but part of the interventions — have sought to convey an idea of difficulty and an idea of excessive expenditure, when this is completely contrary to the idea that other countries have of us. Even last week, the team of the Ministry of Finance — myself and Mr Minister — was in the Ecofin (Council of Economic and Financial Affairs) and in the Eurogroup, and I must tell the parliamentary groups that the Government, as if the country was not growing, that your intervention is totally dissonant in the way that the other countries see the country that grew most in the first quarter of 2023, in view of all the countries that presented their accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] We are also the country that in 2023 will definitely leave the 3. the place of the most indebted economies. The international articles on the quality of our growth, the exceptionality of our growth and not even, are not the minimum consonance between this vision from the outside and the attempt to create a destructive environment, because it is the destructive environment that some want to create. on our part, we present our constructive sense, our reformist sense, our sense of humility and our sense of work before all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u304	To close this debate, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Liberal Initiative brought to this Parliament an important debate to discuss the role of the State and the consequences of the inability of this Socialist Party Government to ensure good management of public enterprises — incapacity and incompetence. Between 2014 and 2021, the State invested more than EUR 35 billion in capital and loans in enterprises in the state business sector. It is 35 billion public money that is outside of those that are the normal compensatory compensation for the provision of public service that these companies have to provide. It is 35 billion that represent a public investment in companies and of which little is known. And what we're going to know, we're even more concerned about what we might know. It is EUR 35 billion that leave without knowing if they will ever come back and often without knowing if their purpose is met. of these EUR 35 billion, we began to focus more on EUR 3, EUR 2 billion, about 10 % of the total value, which was directed to one company, TAP. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking again about the TAP. And we're talking about TAP, and we're always going to talk about it every time you guys do. Members want to talk about managing public companies. TAP is a full demonstration of how when the Socialist Party puts its hand in a public enterprise takes everything that moves. It takes its autonomy and uses the company for its political and partisan purposes; it takes the narratives it wants to promote in the Assembly of the Republic and in social communication; it even takes the laws, changing them, if necessary, to embellish the accounts of the companies. TAP is only one of the 148 companies in the state business sector, companies that should be viable but which are not, companies that should be autonomous and are not. In 2021, therefore, the sum of the results of these companies was negative in EUR 3,1 billion, with a third of the enterprises of the state-owned business sector in technical bankruptcy. I refer to companies such as Parvalorem and Parups, which accumulate losses and a negative own capital of about EUR 5000 million and which result from insolvency proceedings which the Government is delaying in concluding. And they are not autonomous, because the political management of these companies is already proven. Between what is known of the TAP and the political form as many of the managers of these companies are appointed, we have more than evidence of the risks of political and party interference. On the other hand, they also lose autonomy when they depend on the State to fulfill their obligations as shareholders, who then fail to fulfil them. An obvious example of this is the way the Government leaves 44% of its companies hanging, pending the approval of its accounts for 2021, and many of these companies are already awaiting the approval of accounts since 2018, as is the case with the School Park or Transtejo. It is appropriate to say: if in the TAP it is as we already know, what will it be like in the other 147 companies where the government is holding hands? When will this government put your hand into your conscience and take the hand of state companies? on our part, as the Portuguese have seen in the TAP, we will always be in defense of taxpayers' money, in defense of good public management and will not abdicate the necessary scrutiny. As Mr. Prime Minister said, pray to whoever hurts. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u306	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the first item on our agenda. We say good-bye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government who will no longer participate in the next debate. [[Pause.]] I congratulate Mrs. Minister of National Defence and Mr. Secretary of State for National Defence, and we will move on to the second item of the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 68 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Infrastructure Act and 69 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. To present the two proposals for government law, Mr. Minister of National Defence, Helena Carreiras. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with particular pleasure that we present in this House two proposals of structural law for the Portuguese State: the Military Programming Act (MPL) and the Military Infrastructure Act (MRL). Both are the result of a process of reflection and consensual discussion, which involved the Armed Forces and the central services of the Ministry of National Defence. Before the adoption by the Council of Ministers, the two proposals were adopted unanimously, first by the Council of Chiefs of Staff and then by the Military Superior Council and the National Defence Council, reflecting the broad consensus within the Armed Forces. Let me begin with the Military Programming Act. This review has emerged in a different context from all other military programming laws, marked by the return of war to Europe and the challenge to the security order in force. The threats and challenges we face today reinforce the need to ensure greater investment in means and equipment that modernize and value our Armed Forces, enabling all planned missions and international commitments to be carried out. The Military Programming Act is thus the most important legal instrument for multiannual financial planning available to us. It is through it that we build public investment programming in the Armed Forces in armaments and equipment, in order to modernize, operationalize and sustain the national force system, allowing Portugal's vital interests to be effectively assured. in this sense, we decided to move forward with the highest ever investment in a Military Programming Act. On the basis of 35 capacities, consisting of 103 projects and about 400 sub-projects, we foresee a total amount of EUR 5570 million, which corresponds to an increase of 17, 5 % vis-à-vis the law in force, based on a significant growth already in the first quarter. The content of this proposal is due to five structural objectives defined by the Government at the beginning of the legislature. First, the objective of recovering maintenance, modernization and support deficits, with a view to restoring operational availability. This priority was of particular concern, setting up an increase of 96% of the funds in relation to the law in force. In particular, in the first quadriennial, we propose a substantial investment in media support, such as, for example, EH-101 helicopters, frigates or Pandur cars. Secondly, the objective of replacing war reserves for levels compatible with the new geopolitical scenario. In view of the current situation, marked not only by the high demand for arms and ammunition, but also by the low levels of Portugal and the time it takes for its replacement, we believe that this should be an immediate investment. We therefore assume an increase of more than 108 % in relation to the law in force. Thirdly, we reassessed the programming of the existing or previously programmed structural projects, such as the multipurpose logistics vessel or the KC-390 military aircraft. That is why we made time adjustments and funding, and we introduced a new project — the nearby support aircraft — as a gap identified in a system of forces to support the National Highlighted Forces. Fourthly, the objective of strengthening investment in new areas of operations, disruptive emerging technologies, and in research, development and innovation. This is not only a law that restores and repairs the deficits resulting from a long cycle of de-investment, but is also a law that aims to transform the Armed Forces. in this sense, we plan for the first time the operational domains of cyber and space. Both of them know an important investment, which will enable them to implement national strategies for cyberdefence and space. It is also funded for cooperative projects, as well as for the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic and for the conclusion of the Multinational Helicopter Training Centre. Fifthly, the objective of mitigating or eliminating gaps in the system of forces related to the fulfilment of international commitments, in particular NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) targets. in this context, it should be noted that Portugal's contribution to international security is not based solely on financial metrics. It is also necessary to meet the objectives of capacities related to the country's contribution to operations and missions of the Alliance or other international organisations and coalitions. It is therefore clear that the priority targets allocated to Portugal — the Middle Infantry Brigade and the anti-submarine struggle — correspond to a financial effort of 36% of the law. All these investments of the Military Programming Act will compete for the transversal objective of maximizing the return to the national economy. Indeed, the strategy for the building of military capabilities in the LPM is based on the promotion of innovation and the strengthening of qualified employment, with a view to leveraging the technological and industrial base of defence and consolidating the aeronautical and naval clusters. The evidence that the national economy and multiplier value were always present, throughout planning, is identifying a return of about 33 % of the total law to the national economy. It is also important to highlight the effect of these programmes on interoperability and on sovereignty-guarantee missions. They not only compete directly for the protection of the Portuguese diaspora, as they allow the strengthening of territorial cohesion and our ability to guard for an area of search and rescue responsibility that corresponds to 62 times the national territory. by promoting resource efficiency, we will continue with the appreciation of the principle of dual military use, through equipment that promote joint and combined operations, responding to both non-conventional, irregular, disruptive and unexpected threats, such as population support missions or responses to complex civil emergencies. Let me now refer to the proposed law on military infrastructure, which establishes the programming of investment in the construction of the fixed component of the force system. The proposal that we bring in provides for a 5% increase in investment over the next four years, meeting the provisions of the Government Programme: to continue to value, to dignify and to make return on the national defence property that has been made available and which is no longer necessary for the collective defence needs. Given the current context of housing and environmental policies and also the particular attention we have given to human resources, we therefore decide to apply the product of this same profitability in the conservation, maintenance, security and modernization of the heritage in use. This is about improving the living and working conditions of military and civilian personnel in armed forces units, establishments and bodies. It also goes by providing for the investment necessary for infrastructure surveillance, as well as gains in energy efficiency and reduction of environmental footprint, as defined in the revision policy directive last year. I also welcome the important social function of the Military Infrastructure Act in recent years. In particular, I refer to the recent contribution of LIM to affordable housing programmes, which enables stability in revenue entry for medium-term investments in national defence infrastructures. The rational underlying these bills, which approve the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act, is thus shared to achieve major common objectives: recovering deficits from the past, investing more, improving the working conditions of the military and strengthening the operationality of the Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u308	The Minister has two requests for clarification. Do you want to answer together or individually?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u309	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u310	To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u311	Madam President, I welcome the Minister for National Defence, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, and the Secretary of State. Today, the debate has two initiatives of greater relevance to national defence and, therefore, to the country — the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act — which means that today we also discuss the future of our Armed Forces, of which we should be proud, considering the commitment and dedication of women and men who, with a high degree of commitment, have freely chosen to serve Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Minister, I have two notes and four questions to ask you. First note: either the revision of the Military Programming Act, or LIM arrive at Parliament with delay, without any studies, documents or opinions that have substantiated it, as determined by the PSD, but as underlined by the services of the Assembly of the Republic, by virtue of the application of the Rules of Procedure, that is regrettable. [[PSD applause.]] Second note: it is worth noting that the announced increase in the amount of maintenance money, of about 40 % of the total programming, is only proof of the adequacy of the alerts that were made by the PSD regarding the delay in maintenance of equipment and the state of great degradation observed in some.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u312	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u313	Now, I continue with the questions. The revision of the Strategic Concept of National Defence is under way. We do not know whether the Military Programming Act will be in line with the strategic priorities that could be defined for the next decade. The normal thing was to approve, first, the Strategic Concept of National Defence and only then the Military Programming Law—not the other way around. Why didn't this happen? How does the Minister justify Portugal's worrying delay in cyberdefence when NATO has warned Member States not only of the crucial importance of programming but also of ensuring that this capacity is built up to counter the ever-increasing and sophisticated threats? [[PSD applause.]] The Minister announced the construction of six more NPOs (Ocean patrol vessels), which will certainly strengthen our national capacities, within the framework of the security and authority of the State at sea and in missions of public interest. What impacts have there been on the delays in this matter? Finally, with regard to LIM, I would like to ask you the following: the implementation of the Military Infrastructure Act still in force was a disaster, with very low levels of execution, from which serious damage has resulted in the conservation, maintenance, security and modernisation of the infrastructures, which are visible. in this sense, what is the Minister's commitment to this law, which is being discussed today, and which is going to be different this time? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u314	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u315	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Ministers, Minister of National Defence, with only one minute of intervention, I will concentrate on the Military Infrastructure Act. This is a self-sustained law, meaning that it is through the sale of military heritage that maintenance, improvements are financed, eventually the increase in military infrastructure heritage. This closes in itself a risk because it means that we can be selling at the best price — even if it is for a non-social function — an infrastructure that has already served the country, in its military use, and that can serve the country again in its civil use. We all know, in the centers of our cities, many quarters, for example, that can be housing for higher education students, if they are properly reformulated. They can be telework spaces, day care centers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u316	You think? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u317	... associative spaces, spaces for new companies in the social or cooperative sector. In other words, these infrastructures — which no longer have the same strategic interest in the Armed Forces — can be used and a transition can be made to the municipal chambers or the state. My question is: what is the way we can find to centralize, make it more functional and direct the transfer of these military infrastructures to civil uses, with social function, so that a right of preference is given, even if the lower price, by municipal chambers and the State, without that creating a legal problem that could cause the entire proceedings to be blocked in the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u318	To answer, you have the floor to Ms. Minister of National Defence, Helena Careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u319	Madam President, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira, thank you very much for your questions. I am grateful for this opportunity to be here discussing and clarifying everything that has to be clarified about these important laws. Regarding the issue of the Strategic Concept of National Defence, we have a concept in force and there have been a set of works that have been developed. The work of the LPM — the preparation of this bill — has been carried out in a competitive manner. In fact, this has happened with the various elements and documents of the defence plans themselves. More than sequential, they have to be competitors, and that is what has happened, too in this case. In other words, those who have been and who are, in fact, the existing guidelines in the proposal that came out of the National Defence Strategic Concept Review Council are guidelines that are carried out and that are linked to this bill. With regard to cyberdefense, I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that I do not believe that there are delays, as it seems to be being expressed. There is a military capacity that is being built, which has been built, for which we have already taken several steps. We approved a National Cyberdefense Strategy and have already adopted an action plan for this strategy. The cyberdefense capacity within the EMGFA ( Major-General State of the Armed Forces ), which has the competence assigned and delegated to this building, is happening. It is happening not only in terms of training; it is happening in terms of the harmonisation of our systems and networks, the building of infrastructures, the articulation with the national scientific system, and training is underway. So I don't think there are delays and those that exist are obviously recoverable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u320	But there are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u321	With regard to LIM, the commitment is that this year we will be able to do what has never been done, which is to comply with this law, to enforce this law, to more than 50 % of its size. This is the compromise, I leave here our intention and our expectations. Mr Rui Tavares, I would say that, with regard to the possible risk, it is limited because there are independent evaluation and approval mechanisms that take market values into account in relation to the value of buildings. The municipal chambers themselves already have the right of preference in relation to the buildings of their councils and we have included in this proposal a set of mechanisms that seem to allow us more monitoring and control, precisely mitigating the risks that you have referred to here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u322	Mr Diogo León, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u323	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: Four years ago, in 2019, the review of the Military Programming Act was discussed in this House. If, four years ago, the Socialist Party had the opportunity to stress, at the opening of this same debate, that the world of then was characterized by threats of more unpredictable contours and an increasingly dangerous and unstable international environment, today we cannot fail to point out the effective transformation of the security and defence paradigm to which we are witnessing in Europe and in the world. For these reasons — and at a time marked by the return of war to the European continent, a de facto war between States, led by the unjustified and criminal invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation — has never been for us, as a country, so important in the course of the twenty-first century, to defend greater and better investment in means and equipment that modernize and enhance our Armed Forces and allow the Portuguese State to maintain and increase its contribution, fulfilling the sovereign commitments that constitute the defence of the national territory and the maritime and air jurisdictions that are entrusted to us, and to contribute to the effectiveness of the alliances in which we are inserted, carrying out the missions that are assigned to our military within the framework of the United Nations ( Organisation of Nations ), the European Union and NATO. The Socialist Party must not fail to point out the Government's efforts today to present in this Parliament a proposal for a review of the LPM which responds to responsibilities and demands arising not only from the degradation of the international environment but also from Portugal's own geo-strategic condition and the needs and priorities of our Armed Forces. It does so through the recovery of the deficits accumulated in the past, with the replacement of the country's war reserves at levels appropriate to the current geopolitical context — an immediate investment, amounting to EUR 304 million, 128 of which already in the first quarter, representing an increase of more than 108 % in relation to the law in force; and it does so through the support and modernization of the existing means in the force system, mitigating shortcomings of the current means. I highlight the upgrades and recovery of the maintenance deficits of EH-101 helicopters, F-16 aircraft, fleet frigates or Pandur armoured cars — an essential investment that constitutes an increase of 96 % compared to the current law. I also refer to the unequivocal but above all necessary and priority strengthening of investment in areas such as cyberdefence and disruptive emerging technologies, which is reinforced by 39 %, to around EUR 71 million. It is also worth noting the investment devoted, for the first time in the history of a Military Programming Act, to the field of space, with EUR 50 million. We also highlight the important shipbuilding and projection projects, so fundamental to a country with our Atlantic vocation, with ocean patrol vessels, the logistics multipurpose ship and the refueling ship, on an investment of more than 500 million euros, as well as the aeronautical cluster, with an investment of 674 million euros in the acquisition of KC-390 aircraft, another structural project and which represents a successful partnership between Portugal and Brazil. Mr President, a law that, throughout its three quarters, programmes an investment of EUR 5, EUR 57 billion in our Armed Forces — the most significant ever in the history of military programming laws — proposes an immediate increase of EUR 95 million, already in the current year of 2023, and increases the investment by EUR 190 million to EUR 2026 — that is, within the framework of this Legislation — makes a remarkable effort to match the country's ambition level and the subsequent level of ambition that the country projects in its Armed Forces. I conclude by stating that, based on these solid bases, the Socialist Party is, as it has always been, available to work in the specialty, listening to and dialogue with the various political forces, listening to military leaders, in order to create the greatest possible national consensus around that which is the most valuable financial instrument in the service of the modernization and robust means and capabilities of the Armed Forces. That is just what national interests require of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u324	Mr António Prôa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u325	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Assembly of the Republic today discusses the proposed military programming law and the proposed military infrastructure law. These are structural diplomas of the building of national sovereignty in matters of national defence. Today it is time to state, in addition to the conjuncural political circumstances that do not favor the attention that the issue should deserve, the importance of national defence, the affirmation of Portugal as a sovereign State, actor in the geopolitical context and active partner in the international context, both in the United Nations, the Atlantic Alliance, the European Union or the Community of Portuguese-speaking countries. The PSD, since the foundation of democracy, is protagonist, with responsibilities in government or opposition, in building and strengthening the capacities of national defence. The PSD today reaffirms its respect for the Armed Forces as a guarantor of national defence and sovereignty, as well as in the fulfilment of our country's international commitments. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD also greets the men and women serving the Armed Forces, for their commitment and professionalism, so often without the desirable conditions for the exercise of their missions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u327	Madam President, the diplomas we enjoy today have a context and have a history. The context is a military crisis in Europe, which we considered impossible: the brutal war in Ukraine caused by the unacceptable invasion by the Russian Federation, which must deserve our renewed and committed censorship. This war in Europe has deserved support in military equipment and the mobilization of effective forces for strengthening the eastern European flank in the context of NATO. These circumstances are decisively changing the European and global geopolitical context, which adds new threats to other regions of the world, whether politically, economically or because of the consequences of climate change, but also a recent health crisis, the management of which involved the mobilization of our Armed Forces. The proposed military programming law also has a history that has to be mentioned, not to find criticism of the government, but because it conditions this diploma and the performance of the Armed Forces. Today, it has to be stated clearly and with responsibility: the history of the last years of implementation of the Military Programming Laws and also of the Military Infrastructure Act is weak, very weak, and has hindered the operationality of the Armed Forces and delayed not only the acquisition of military equipment, but also the maintenance of existing equipment. After years with implementation levels close to 90 %, since 2016 the implementation has declined sharply and, even excluding the year 2021, with 54 % of implementation, the implementation runs slightly above 70 %. It's very little. This is the main problem of the Military Programming Act. The consequences are known and worrying: stopped ships, equipment without the necessary modernisation and deferred acquisition programmes. Mr President, this low rate of implementation history in the Military Programming Act conditions this proposal as assumed by the Government itself. The proposal provides for an investment of EUR 2418 million for the recovery of existing media maintenance, support and modernisation deficits, corresponding to 43 % of the total provided for in the Government document. That's a lot. in this context, it is important to clarify whether, as a result of accumulated maintenance deficits, the operationality of some equipment was definitely not involved. [[PSD applause.]] The current LPM proposal provides for an overall investment amount of EUR 5570 million up to 2034, which the Government considers represents an increase of 17, 5 % compared to the law in force. This investment in the Armed Forces is necessary, but it is important to say: it remains short of international commitments on the need for strengthening defence. In addition, it is important that you get out of the paper and get it done.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u328	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u329	This is the first time that the LPM includes the five operational domains: land, sea, air, cyber and space. For this new area, EUR 50 million is planned. Let's hope they get out of the paper, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u330	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u331	The investment focuses on eight structuring projects, almost all continuing to previous LPMs. it should be made clear, with regard to cyberdefense, that the PSD has given priority in the last LPM and that it has been delayed, if we are in a position to achieve this in order to ensure the defence of national interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u333	With regard to ocean patrol vessels after refusal of the Court of Auditors'visa and the repairs made in relation to this process, even with the PSD's warning, it is important that this delay can now be recovered. [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u334	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u335	I'm done now, Mr. President. Regarding the logistics multipurpose ship, it is important to clarify whether this project is not damaged by the construction of a multifunction platform, also announced. With regard to the new Army air capacity building project, in view of resource limitation, it is important to clarify what measures are taken to avoid duplication of means and structures. Finally, Mr President, I refer to two important issues for the PSD, in the current context. The current war in Ukraine revealed the fragility of logistics chains in the supply of equipment and ammunition. War reserves in Europe are at an insufficient level. This LPM verifies a substantial increase in these war reserves. However, it is important to assess whether this ambition is concrete in the short term. Finally, Mr President, the sensitive issue of surveillance of marine funds and of submarine telecommunications cables. Portugal, due to its geographical position, is a potential target of threats to these structures. The threats are increasing and it is important to assess whether this LPM contains, in itself, enough aspects to ensure that this interest is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u336	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD — and with this end — faces this process of discussion and voting of the Military Programming Act with the same responsibility as ever, with the commitment and sense of responsibility to contribute to the strengthening of the Portuguese Armed Forces. He will therefore be committed to obtaining clarifications and commitments during the process of discussion in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u338	I take this opportunity to congratulate the honourable Members. Members of the Government and all Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, and to say the following: Mr António Prôa has greatly exceeded his time and, despite this, he still has a request for clarification. It is the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party Miguel Rodrigues who will make it up, and you will certainly not have an answer from Mr António Prôa, as you will understand. In any case, Mr Rodrigues has the floor to make his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u339	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Prôa, I should first of all like to note the high cordiality and even a demonstration of the interest of the Armed Forces and the national interest in those of our military capabilities. Despite this, and having already expressed this willingness, I still have to demystify and question him about some of the things he said. The honourable Member mentioned and even adjectived the implementation rate of LPM and LIM as a 'fraquinha ', even excluding the year 2021. However, it is still curious that the current Military Programming Act, as well as the Military Infrastructure Act, has been in force since 2019, i.e. in 2020, 2021 and 2022. Therefore, he mentioned, and that is also true, that we had previous execution rates in 2016 above those we obtained in those years, but it is also necessary to say—and he also knows it well, because I know that—that the year in which there was a higher enforcement rate of the Military Programming Act was even the year 2010. This seems to us to be at least an indication that the Armed Forces are trained for this high implementation of the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act, not independently of the Government, but in coordination with the Government that is in power, as the national interest so mandated, and that is something that should leave us all proud. However, there is a second hypothesis regarding these years and it is in fact that Portugal, as well as the rest of the world, has been hit by an event in such a cataclysmic way that it has called into question or changed the priorities of the Armed Forces in relation to what is the LPM and LIM. from this bench, of the Socialist Party, we have a lot, but even very proud of the high contribution that the Armed Forces had in relation to the vaccination process and which made Portugal, precisely, in one of the countries with higher vaccination rates on the planet, even though this was done at the cost of the LPM.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u340	It wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u341	Therefore, Mr President, what I have to ask you is whether, recognizing this difficulty of execution, recognizing the difficulties we have been facing along the way, the PSD remains open to, in the specialty, discuss and address these issues, on behalf of the national interest and the modernization of our Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u342	Mr António Proa asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u343	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u344	Mr President, I give you the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, but it must indeed be an appeal to the Bureau. I strongly ask you not to use the Bureau to answer what Mr Rodrigues has just asked you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u345	Absolutely, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u346	Because, if so, I shall immediately withdraw the floor from you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u347	Absolutely, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u348	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u349	Mr President, I wanted to tell you two things. The first was that if, through you, I would like to respond and not, manifestly, time, the PS would want to give in some of its time, I will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u350	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u351	Not being the case, Mr. President, and in the inability to respond, the second thing I ask you is whether, through you, it is possible to provide the Socialist Party with a chart... The speaker displayed the chart you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u352	We'll distribute the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u353	... which demonstrates that, in fact, there is a significant decrease here, but the trend of the decline in execution and is not only in the pandemic year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u354	All right, Mr, we will distribute this document, which is self-explanation. I therefore ask the PS Parliamentary Group to give Mr António Proa time. [[Pause.]] The PS Parliamentary Group informed the Bureau that it does not give time to Mr António Proa. [[Laughing.]] It's your right! The PS Parliamentary Group is in its right. As we are talking about rights, it is also by right that the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, in the person of Mr John Dias, takes the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Appreciably 1550 days later, we again discuss investment and re-equipment options for the Armed Forces. It was 1550 days when the state of degradation of the equipment increased, just as the socio-professional conditions of the military were degraded, and it is not the so-called virtues of external participation — in some cases, above other countries that have better conditions to do so — that change reality. We said here 1550 days ago, and now we repeat that, for the CFP, of course, the priority of the Armed Forces is the national defence rather than the defence of other things.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u357	Therefore, the reversal of this priority is not justified, transforming the satisfaction of international commitments in the alpha and omega of the Armed Forces. In fact, what life shows, as much as they deny and fill the media space, is that the greater our external participation is the greater the weaknesses that are being revealed in several vectors of our Armed Forces. There is a disstructuring of any logical form of operation. First, investment is approved, then the strategy is discussed. After all, where is the rational one that supports all this? It is in this framework that the Military Programming Act must define the level of priority which takes over the military component of national defence, in particular its fundamental options, these options which must follow the great options of national defence—which are unknown! The world is changing, but the national re-equipment and response options that guarantee the safeguard of reserve and national strategic capacity remain as in the past. But, careful, the headquarters is no longer in Abrantes. Therefore, it is important to stress and reaffirm that for the CFP, the urgency is in the investment that restores existing media capabilities to acceptable levels and, in another way, promotes a response to the socio-professional problems of the military, which are not only in the salaries. I ask, and I am not caricature, if a young man feels realized to come to the Armed Forces capinar, paint walls, do deinfestation service or others, so many that they could be or have already been done by civilian personnel. This is a reality that particularly affects the military hired, the same as the government says it wants to retain. Careers and functional content need a determined mix. You can't talk about the most qualified generation and then everything goes on the same. It is therefore clear that our disagreement with some of the programmes of this Military Programming Act does not concern the need to re-equipped the Armed Forces or, even with a financing model, but rather with the definition of the related priorities. There are options of military equipment that are needed in the country, such as ocean patrol vessels, a program that drags into the fog of memory, so that when the last one arrives, the first one must not be in condition. But there are other options, such as that of the logistics multipurpose ship, whose nature is to design force. The question here is: to project force to where? And at whose service? NATO? of the common army which is in gestation in the European Union? Why not concentrate this expenditure on accelerating the replacement of existing capacities or, then, on another level, on the increasingly late response to socio-professional matters? On the other hand, as we have stressed when approving the LPM in force, the funds are too high for armed forces that have a chronic deficit, in particular in the support and maintenance of equipment, as we have seen with ships, planes or combat cars. Obviously, maintenance issues are far from sufficiently cautious, in particular due to dubious procurement processes that did not cover their maintenance. With regard to KC-390, regardless of whether we consider this model to be tailored to our needs and to take account of the participation of the national industry in the project, we are still concerned that only Brazil, Portugal and, eventually, Czechia show interest in the acquisition of this plane. We also expressed our disagreement with the construction of the army's helicopter capacity, recalling, on the one hand, that in 2015 the Army's Light Aviation Unit was extinguished and, on the other hand, that what we need is a joint force of helicopters, with integrated management at all levels, considering that budgets are not infinite. I would also like to take a consideration of the so-called 'double use' and remind the Minister that there are no armed forces or dual-use military forces. It is the material resources that can eventually be classified as civil and military use. For the PCP, it is not at stake, as it has never been, the need to re-equip the Armed Forces, giving them the ability to improve their performance and to carry out the missions that are constitutionally consecrated to them. Some people talk a lot about lessons learned, but this proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u358	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u359	I shall finish, Mr President, with the same tolerance. He said that this proposal for military programming does not, in our perspective, reflect the lessons that led the Armed Forces to the state in which they are and in which they are. The CFP Parliamentary Group will therefore vote against. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the Military Infrastructure Act, we believe that it is beyond the urgent demand for investment in the creation of better living conditions, particularly as a way to contribute to improving the recruitment and retention capacity of the Armed Forces, but also for improving working conditions in military units and establishments. in this sense, the CFP Parliamentary Group will abstain on Friday. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u360	Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for National Defence, Helena Careers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Military Programming Act under review, as the main multi-year financial instrument for public investment in defence and the Armed Forces, establishes State investment in means and equipment for the Armed Forces between 2023 and 2034. The overall amount of proposed investment amounts to EUR 5570 million, representing a growth of 17, 5 % compared to the law in force. Therefore, with regard to the overall amount of investment, we consider this insufficient value if we take into account the time interval of its application and the actual shortcomings and current needs of the Armed Forces. On the other hand, the growth of 17, 5 % announced against the law in force will be greatly reduced if not cancelled by the effect of inflation and by the increase in demand for equipment but also by military components as a result of the war in Ukraine. This review of the Military Programming Act also includes 43% of its amount, about EUR 2, 4 billion, for the recovery of the deficits in the maintenance, support and modernization of existing means, trying to complete the absence of maintenance and modernisations which have been successively postponed due to lack of funds. But do we necessarily have to ask: is it worth investing these amounts, for example, in ships and platforms, in the case of the Navy, with more than 30 years of service? It is that, in this proposal for a review of the LPM, no programme for the replacement of large arms systems is planned. These programmes, by their nature and complexity, extend for several years until they are implemented. Another fragility resulting from successive revisions of the Military Programming Act is the low rate of implementation of the programmes over the years. In 2021, this was 54 %. ; in 2022, it was 70% ; in 2009, elucidatively, the then Minister of Defence Nuno Severiano Teixeira declared that the Logistics Polyvalent Ship was a strategic project, a fundamental ship for the Portuguese Armed Forces and that therefore would be given high priority in the review of the Military Programming Act. In 2023, in the current revision of the LPM, the Polyvalent Logistics Ship continues only to be a structuring project on paper. We also strange, with regard to structural projects, the absence of a medium- and long-range anti-air defence missile system, essential for the defense of our airspace, in a time of proliferation and banalization of ballistic missiles. For all this, and to remove this excessive pressure and dependence on the LPM, with regard to the acquisition of means and equipment for the Armed Forces, it would be important to increase the annual defence budget to 2 % of GDP, as Portugal has already committed itself to its NATO partners. On the Military Infrastructure Act, where the overall proposal herein provides for a total of infrastructure projects by 2034 of more than EUR 272 million, we have serious doubts that a little more than EUR 22 million per year is sufficient to deal with the infrastructure deficiencies of the three branches of the Armed Forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u362	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The time has come for such necessary revisions of the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act, two vital laws for the proper functioning of our Armed Forces. But given the various constraints that the different branches have suffered, in particular over the past few years, it is more correct to say only "the functioning of our Armed Forces". In summary, in order for these two laws to give effective conditions for the proper functioning of the Armed Forces, it takes an LPM without captivating, formal or informal, and a LIM with agility, i.e. a decomplicated law. It is known that the Liberal Initiative unconditionally supports Portugal's international commitments to the multilateral institutions that we integrate and are essential pillars within our national defence. We do not waver in our commitment to the Lusophony through the CPLP ( Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ), to the Atlantic axis customized by NATO and with Europe within the European Union. Therefore, we remember and reaffirm the need for investment in the area of defence to reach the minimum value of 2 % of GDP. Otherwise, it is unlikely that Portugal will be able to fully fulfil its international commitments and make a solid contribution to the joint security of our bloc of democracies. The various shortcomings that our area of defense suffers require a worthy debate of several days, perhaps weeks. However, we cannot fail to mention certain points that we consider to be among the most relevant for this debate and this process that we are starting today, starting with the issue of cyberdefense, which is increasingly fundamental and in which the bet has been insufficient. Only last year, we witnessed disturbing attacks both by the Armed Forces themselves and by other public institutions and by companies that are important to the Portuguese economy, and, despite the cyberdefense that has been in the LPM for years, having been further reinforced in the field of expertise, we are once again starting again this year. Let us really hope that cyberdefence will now be at the forefront of the Portuguese Government's legal priorities. We suggest looking at the example of Estonia, which suffered a devastating cyber attack in 2007, perpetrated by Russia in Putin, one year before the invasion of Georgia and in preparation for it. Since then, Estonia's advances in cyberdefence and cybersecurity have been incredible, today placing this country as an example in these areas. This leads us to the fundamental drama of the LPM, with practical consequences in our Armed Forces : the very low rate of execution over the years, which does not allow us to trust at all in the document that is presented to us today by the Government. In 2019 the implementation rate was 79 %; in 2020 it was 75 %; in 2021 it was 54 %; and last year it was 73 %. Although several potential increases are perceived for the Armed Forces, we have no way of knowing if the investment will arrive where it is necessary, and this has to change and must be guaranteed in the process that we now begin. So, and knowing that you have already listed this as one of the biggest problems, I ask you directly, Minister : are you willing to commit yourself to minimum enforcement goals in implementing this law? Thus, we can not only assess the Ministry's current capacity as its capacity and commitment to meet concrete goals. It is noted that in 2021, for example, a total of 69 projects in operation, 25 had recovery delays until the end of the planned period and six would end up beyond the initially planned period. in that year, only 38 projects, i.e. 55 %, were being implemented as planned. We also understand that each branch of the Armed Forces has a different rate of execution and challenges, of course. In the case of the Navy, the problems are in sight, and the state of our ships is a serious problem that needs to be dealt with as quickly as possible. It is not acceptable to have one of Europe's largest exclusive economic areas, which can still increase due to the extension of the continental shelf, and have a Navy where ships are consistently in repair or with no parts to operate in our territorial waters; or even we have to recognize that in the past there were acquisitions that should not have happened, as was the example of ships which are not suitable for our seas. As far as the Air Force is concerned, the situation is even more worrisome since the execution rate has been only 54 %, and for several decades our pilots have not been able to have the necessary training times each year because there is a lack of funding for the fuel of our aircraft. It is important not to forget that Portuguese airspace is considerably larger than our own exclusive economic zone. Finally, the Army, despite the high rate of execution, faces another challenge: that of the serious lack of military — about 5000 —, the military which are essential to ensure the degree of preparation and operationalization of our forces and their equipment, so that we can also meet our international commitments. Overall, conditions are lacking to promote higher levels of interoperability, cost reduction and efficiency, which will enable the Armed Forces' own branches to be more cooperative and collaborative. I conclude by expressing our cautious agreement in general; noting the increase of an effort made, although we cannot expect less, given the new world in which we have lived since 24 February last year, which obviously has to have practical consequences on how we see and think of our Armed Forces; and reaffirming that the Liberal Initiative defends a State that does not relinquish its fundamental functions, namely the protection of our sovereignty, something in which we cannot fail. If there is an area in which the State has to be strongly present is in defense, and it is precisely in defense of the Armed Forces and the interests of Portugal that the Liberal Initiative is focused on. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u364	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, right now, I would also like to congratulate you on the almost exactness you've used your time. For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: LPM generates investments in equipment and armaments and its financing consists of budgetary appropriations and own revenue. This diploma, contrary to what would be expected, and this has already been pointed out, is not accompanied by any map or by any detailed description of investments in the various military capabilities and in the various branches. We only hope for what he promises to do later, i.e. for the promise of follow-up by the Assembly of the Republic, to appreciate, in the following April, detailed programmes of weapons and equipment in particular, the strategy that is missing and which has already been pointed out here. I know that we are in the context of war, but this does not erase historical positions: among those who want and always wanted, critically, the 2% of the GDP imposed by Trump on NATO ; and those who condemn exactly that situation, those who denounce that the essential of this investment is to accompany NATO militarism, which has never been spent so much on arms in the history of humanity, when there is no funding for energy transition, to fight hunger and to fight inequalities. Don't stop being a paradox. In investment and in the social area, the government is pursuing the policy of subservience to the deficit and Brussels, already in the military field subservience is NATO, in defence matters, and the war has aggravated this subservience. The Bloc has a fundamental disagreement on how investment in military means is made with a view to its placement in the service of NATO and other foreign military bodies, with military objectives. The transfer of financial resources under the LPM has been directed towards border control and militarization, to the detriment of essential functions of the Armed Forces, such as support for civilian protection missions, search and rescue missions or support for the National Maritime Authority. Do not speak to us in military investment, if the objective is to dig more common valleys in the Mediterranean. We do not forget the investigation of 2020, in which the European Frontex Agency was charged with illegal operations, pushback against immigrants, crimes against humanity, prohibited by the European Convention on Human Rights, where two Portuguese vessels were involved. Investment is necessary, yes, but for the financing of the National Laboratory for Medicinal Products, so that the production and marketing of medicinal products can be carried out when there are situations of rupture or repeated failure on the part of the market. It is necessary to invest in cybersecurity in order to respond to the vulnerabilities of computer systems or telecommunications networks and to ensure protection of personal data. Investment is needed, but in the remuneration and working conditions of the military and in support of return to civilian life. Investment is needed in the national industry, in the Arsenal do Alfeite and in the yards that have been left to abandon, in the academys to be created and so many times promised. It was years, years and years of accumulated deficits that destroyed what was best in the naval industry in this country, particularly in the Arsenal do Alfeite. The pretext of double use, many of these now announced means will be placed at the service of NATO, which is a global instrument of war...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u366	It's peace! Peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u367	...and not a peace organization, and for that it is enough to confirm your sad history. It is this dual use that we want to examine. The country has many battles to win, but, as has already been said, none of them imply the projection of forces. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the sad enthusiasm that the return of war to Europe seems to generate in some voices, we do not forget the words of Fausto Bordalo Dias: « [... ] as holy as it is, war is war. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u368	In the meantime, Mr Marcos Perestrello asked the floor for an appeal to the Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u369	Mr President, it is only to mention that Mrs Joana Mortágua, in her speech, made a statement that is not rigorous and that, if it is rigorous, it would constitute a serious accusation to the Government and a serious accusation to the Members who have seriously worked on the analysis and discussion of the Military Programming Act. Mrs Joana Mortágua said that the Government did not send Parliament the maps attached to the programmes that constitute the Military Programming Act, but that is not correct. Not only did the Government send the maps as it sent the disaggregated maps, which were distributed to all members of the committee, and it also sent the individual sheets of each of the programmes, which, as they contain confidential information, are available in the committee room for consultation with the honourable Members. Members, in accordance with the rules for consulting classified documents. If Mrs. Joana Mortagua didn't consult them, it was because she didn't want to. If you did not read the maps, if you did not consult the maps, it was because you did not open the emails in which they were made available to all the committee members. I would like to make this clarification clear, out of respect not only for the documentation that has been sent by the Government to Parliament, but also for the Members who have worked and are working on this law, which is a complex law, with many programmes and whose analysis has been done by Members with great care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u370	Thank you very much, Mr Marcos Perestrello. It is good to have you here, also as President of the National Defence Commission, to give such timely clarification. As Mrs Joana Mortágua and the Left Block Parliamentary Group still have 57 seconds, I have the greatest availability to give you the floor for any clarification on this matter. Usually, that's not how it happens. Following an inquiry there is no intervention, but I do not care, in favour of the truth and clarity of the debate, if you wish. But if you don't want to move on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u371	That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u372	Like, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u373	I give you the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u374	Mr. President, the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u375	It is very important for the debate to be clarified. I'll give you the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u376	Mr President, the Left Block has just made a statement which has already been made by other parliamentary groups on methodologies, which are not the same as they were adopted in the past, and to the public availability of some of the information. Of course, objectively, we do not object to the provision that has been made of the information that is in secret for the presence of Members. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u377	Now, we're moving on to a PAN intervention. [[Pause.]] Mr Perestrello is asking for the floor, but I do not intend to make this kind of issue eternal. I will now ask the honourable Member to address himself directly to the Bureau, because otherwise I have to maintain a dialogue which at the moment may no longer be very appropriate. You shall use the word for an appeal to the Bureau, but which shall be directly to the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u378	Mr President, in the previous speech I had also addressed to the Bureau to make clear what had happened. Mr President, I insist: the information has been made publicly available, as it has been in the previous processes of discussion of the Military Programming Act, and the information which has not been made publicly available has not been made publicly available in the previous processes of discussion of the Military Programming Act. I just wanted to make an explanation of respect for all the speakers. I am not going into controversy with the Left Block Parliamentary Group or with Mrs Joana Mortágua, I just wanted to make it clear that this information is not rigorous and that, probably, if the Member had it, it was due to the lack of rigour of that information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u379	Thank you, sir, we understand. Thus, we turned to an intervention by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Member of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : With regard to this intervention and to the matters that bring us here today, taking into account the short minute that the NAP has, I will focus on an area that is essential to us, which is the environmental issue, although we follow up on a number of concerns which have already been expressed today. Although the area of defence spends about 1, 38 % of national GDP, the truth is that the environmental sustainability dimension has not been expressed in these two documents with the vehemence with which other countries already do so, including climate change routes in their infrastructure programming. This has happened, for example, in the United States since 2019, but also in Finland, France, the Netherlands, Slovenia, among many other examples. in this sense, given the impact that all military equipment has on the environment on the one hand and, on the other, that operations have in their course, it seems essential that we ensure that the defence sector becomes greener and more sustainable, in order to build a national strategy for the environmental sustainability of military infrastructure. The NAP will propose this change in the field of the specialty process, and what we would like to see is whether, indeed, the majority of parliament that supports the Government, either the Minister or the Minister, are available to set goals of carbon neutrality and for military programming to contemplate these areas as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u381	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u382	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: at this point we also discussed another important and structural law for the Armed Forces, for national defence and for our country, which is the Military Infrastructure Act. What is proposed is, in short, the review, improvement and updating of the law which, on the one hand, programmes the investment in the conservation, maintenance, security, modernization and construction of the Armed Forces infrastructures and, on the other, regulates the management of the property affected by national defence. This law contributes not only to the improvement of the conditions of the built-in heritage of the Armed Forces, but also to its profitability at the service of the country, at the service of public policies and the economic and social development of our communities. On this proposal for a review, it is important to say that it reinforces what has provided the law in force, learns and corrects errors of possible solutions that may not have resulted as we would like and concretely grasps the experience of pandemic management. That is how it must always be in politics. in this particular case, the government chose to strengthen the political weight of the current law, opted to strengthen the bet on simplification, agility and expansion of possible procedures for the profitability of property affected by national defense. They are amendments that allow for more optimized enforcement of the Military Infrastructure Act, facilitating the increase in investment, channelling the surplus revenue available on the annual allocation provided for in this Act for another very important financial instrument in the area of defence, the Military Programming Act, allowing interventions and improvements in unused buildings, to enable future and better profitability and maximization of revenue for the State. In sum, adopting the maximum investment in the present to make it profitable in the future. This review introduces mechanisms that make revenue more predictable to obtain, in particular through the tacit approval of assessments and a mechanism for regulating untitled occupations. Finally, and no less important, from a financial point of view, this law provides for an increase in investment by 5 % over the next four years. In comparison with the law in force — and I call attention to the CFP — in all three quarters, we are talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of almost EUR 11 million for total infrastructure projects,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u383	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u384	... with increases to the General Staff of the Armed Forces, to the Navy, to the Army and to the Air Force. I'm done now, Mr. President. And, Madam Minister, it is essential that this investment be channelled to improve military facilities and their living conditions, because we know that this type of improvements has an impact on morals and contributes to improving the appeal of military careers and recruitment. In conclusion, Mr President, the Military Infrastructure Act has been taking on a growing social role, and this proposal for a review follows this trend already inherited from the last proposal. We know that the provision of national defence-affected heritage often goes by assigning it to authorities and other civil entities, and this is a dimension that the PS Parliamentary Group can no longer value. We encourage this dimension to be deepened, as a contribution to mitigating other problems, such as housing in some cities in the country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have demonstrated in this House, we reiterate our willingness to hear the civil society, the armed forces, the Ministry of Defence and the ladies and gentlemen. Members, improve and accept contributions that can make this law more in line with national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u385	For the last speech of the Members. Members, I give the floor to Mr Rui Paulo Sousa's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u386	Mr President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Armed Forces are a strategic pillar of any nation that wants to be independent, and they guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. The current conflict in Ukraine, invaded by Russia, has further increased the need for well-equipped armed forces and prepared to operate in any theatre of operations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u387	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u388	However, this is not possible with the devaluation that our military are constantly subject to, with less and less attractive careers and with totally obsolete means. The defence budget is far from ensuring our sovereignty and independence and far from the goal we commit ourselves to with our partners in the Atlantic Alliance, whose goal of 2 % defence investment has not been met for years. By withdrawing the GNR budget ( Republican National Guard ) and military pensions, the annual defence budget is only 1% of GDP, i.e. half of what Portugal is obliged to do as part of NATO. The amounts involved in the Military Programming Act are therefore insufficient if we take into account the shortcomings and pressing needs of our Armed Forces. But despite this disinvestment and disregard of the military by successive socialist and social democratic governments, the participation of Portugal and its Armed Forces in international missions, within the framework of NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and in agreement with other countries, has been one of the strategic pillars of Portuguese foreign policy, and has always been carried out with a high degree of international commitment and recognition. The presence of national forces in these missions has been a capital factor to demonstrate the country's ability to contribute to collective security and to promote Portugal's presence in the world. But for the full fulfilment of these missions, with the minimum of operational independence from our partners and allies, we need our own means to allow us to design and sustain forces far from national territory. in this sense, structuring projects of the Military Programming Act, such as the logistics multipurpose ship, the team refueler ship, the KC-390 aircraft and those of nearby support are essential for the projection and maintenance of highlighted forces. However, successive delays in their acquisition, transiting some of them from review of the Military Programming Act, have made it impossible for them to be implemented. Therefore, as the Military Programming Act is the main financial instrument of national defence for investment in the means and equipment of the Armed Forces, and although the proposed laws in question can be further improved, it is important in this discussion of fundamental organic laws for national defence that all the political forces responsible here undertake to carry out this commitment of modernization so necessary and pressingly to the three branches of the military institution. If we want peace, we must be prepared for war, and we are prepared for war only if we have well-equipped armed forces, with operational capacity and which are deterrents to external threats. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u389	To close this debate, I give the floor to Mrs. Minister of National Defence, Helena Careers. Exa has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u390	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you for the comments and questions put, which have generally focused on issues related to investment levels, with the implementation of this law and, finally, there are a couple more concrete issues. To finish, I have two notes. The first is related to the size of these laws, which are really laws that have to do with national sovereignty, which involve us all and require a huge responsibility from all of us. I think it is essential that we do this exercise with this notion and with national interest in perspective. This is, in fact, the greatest law in terms of absolute value that we have already had, and that is, it seems to me, very significant. We are presenting it at a time when we have also just recorded the greatest implementation of a military programming law in absolute values. In 2022, it was EUR 469 million that were executed in respect of a year in which the execution of the same law had a record in terms of recovery. What we did between 2021 and 2022 gives us hope that we can continue to improve the implementation of this law in a response to the Liberal Initiative which, I believe, had raised a question about the compromise we could have. We have a commitment to run well, to execute as best as possible, to execute more. Because there are mechanisms we have been introducing, monitoring, information and flexible management, which guarantee that this objective will be pursued. We want to do it, both in one law and in the other. It is also an expectation that we have, as I said with regard to LIM, that we will exceed 50 % of implementation, and this has never happened. Therefore, I would like to reassure you of our responsibility with regard to the execution of these enormous amounts for the training of our Armed Forces. The guidelines we follow, I believe that they fully meet these objectives of making the resources at our disposal profitable, making the best possible use of the resources we have. There are many equipment that have a decade or more of life. We must improve them, keep them, support them, modernize them, but do this without giving up innovation and new projects. There are new projects, there is innovation, and it is in this technological innovation that we also respond to the question of the NAP, about the environmental challenge, not only in the LIM. We need projects to include objectives related to reducing environmental footprint and energy efficiency, for example. In LPM, these new projects, the dimension of innovation, ensure that new technologies will in fact enable better performance, better results on respect for environmental issues and environmental objectives. But not only do we have this, as we believe, and we want you to understand that here is a law that not only responds to international commitments, to talk about your concerns, but that is very focused on returning to the national economy and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u391	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u392	... concludes Mr President, also in the projects that have to do with support for populations, search and rescue, support for fire surveillance, in response to disasters. Here are those capabilities that will be used in an integrated way by our Armed Forces. We have reduced waste, we want to look at the future and my commitment is to continue this discussion with everyone, in particular, to clarify all doubts and we will achieve the best LPM ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-03.u393	Thank you very much, Minister. We have reached the end of this debate. Now a reference, the Left Block transferred to the Government 57 seconds. I'm going to read the agenda for our work by tomorrow, which starts at 3 p.m. and has two points. The first point consists of political declarations and in the second point debate - petition No 83 / XV / 1. a ( National Trade Union of Banking Frameworks and Techniques - SNQTB ) — By awarding exceptional supplement to pensioners to all reformed banking workers. That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presence and tomorrow we will resume our work at 3 p.m. [[It was 18 hours and 24 minutes.]]
