ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Let me remind everyone that, for today's legislative votes, we have a script that closes to 100 pages. I therefore ask all speakers to scrupulously respect the times of the debates. If we respect them, we will be able to start the votes at 12 hours and 30 minutes, more or less, and it will be very late, if we do not, we will certainly take more time. We have a file, so I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Compliance with all and I shall take account of the entry into the Bureau, and its admission, of the Bills Nos. 897 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 904 / XV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u3	Thank you very much. The first item on the agenda consists of the current debate required by the CFP on the beginning of the academic year of basic and secondary education and in higher education. To open the debate, on behalf of the requesting party, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Secretaries of State: Once again, with a worrying recurrence of lack of measures to defend public school, the school year began with a severe lack of teachers — 92 000 students of basic and secondary education are without all teachers. The situation has worsened, wounding the essential core of guarantees of a quality public school that promotes equity and the development of children and young people. At the beginning of this week, the PCP members were on the ground, in contact with leaders of schools, teachers and other educational workers, students and education officers, confirming a picture of degradation and frustration that needs to be stopped. Since the lack of teachers and non-teaching staff, i.e. technicians and assistants of educational action, for example, problems in canteens and lack of works, going through the precariousness of professionals and the serious effects of mobility, the picture replicates from north to south of the country, with special incidence in the south. In the Faro district, the scenario is serious, with 8800 students without teachers at all disciplines; in the Beja district there were 4130 students; in Lisbon, in the school Queen Dona Amélia, for example, at least one class of 7. the year did not have seven teachers; in the school Maria Pia there are 16 teachers. Finally, we could give other examples. The situation is not of today, it has taken decades and is responsible, the successive PSD or PSD/CDS governments, as well as causes, such as disinvestment in teacher training, devaluation of teaching career, precariousness and a model of itinerance, which forces thousands of professionals to move every year to hundreds of miles away without any support. That is how thousands of young people prepared for teaching, including their professionalization, ended up not entering a career that did not match their fair expectations, and that is how we reached the point of rupture, with the impossibility, at least, to compensate the graduates for retirement. Between January and September, 2200 teachers retired, estimating that the volume of exits until the end of December rose to 3,500, which means that more students will be left without a teacher, while only a little more than 1 thousand newly trained in higher education institutions arrived at schools. Emergency measures are needed to provide the public school with teachers, technicians and other appropriate professionals to ensure the quality and equity of education in public school. The fight against precariousness and the offer of attractive and future careers, from the point of view of wages and progressions, are unavoidable imperatives. The end of precariousness and the linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service is required. The recognition of service time, the elimination of progression quotas between steps, the fair remuneration and progression of teachers and other professionals, from psychologists to operational assistants, passing through social service technicians and therapists. These measures, moreover, reflected in the PCP draft resolution on the valorization of education workers and public school, are also indispensable for the recovery of learning, hampered by the lack of time credits to schools, lack of funding and lack of teachers. The end of the re-use of school textbooks 1 is also indispensable. the cycle, which the government has just announced, giving reason to the CFP, but to which it must add the effective freeness of the paperbooks, which continue to burden families. With regard to higher education, there is a strong shortage of 104 000 beds in public student homes. The government is well aware of a residence building programme, which does not leave the paper, but it intends to move from only 15,073 beds in 2021, to only 26,772 in 2026, which corresponds only to 22,5 % of the 119 000 students displaced. The urgent expansion of the public housing network, the increase in the value of complement housing, among other measures, is required. It is also the case of canteens whose insufficiency is manifest and in which prices are being exacerbated. It is also urgent to combat the precariousness of higher education teachers, which reaches 53% — I repeat, 53%! — the total number of teachers as well as researchers, which is 75 % or even 80 %, when we consider the scholarships in the projects and research units. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and State Secretaries, this situation cannot continue. It is imperative, in fact, to value public school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u5	Mr President, thank you very much, too, for the time being fulfilled. We now have to intervene on the side of the government, being concerned two Ministries, the two Ministers, and the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education begins, Elvira Fortunato. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I thank the CFP for the opportunity of this debate to talk a little about the beginning of the school year. The current school year is starting according to the forecast and we dare to say that it is running very well, in view of all the improvements made in the national access competition, as well as in social action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u8	But we know there's still a lot to do. One of the most worrying aspects that Portugal and Europe are facing today is that of housing, and even with the constraints that have arisen in the meantime, 60% of the first projects contracted in September last year are already under construction or about to start. We recognize that this process takes some time for its full implementation and the Government has taken steps to mitigate housing problems in higher education. However, until the full implementation of the National Plan for Higher Education Housing, the largest ever investment in public residences for students, the Government has successively strengthened support. As we think, above all, about the people who are students and their families,... [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] ... in addition to the various measures presented last Tuesday on this same subject, the Government has assessed and approved a significant strengthening of the accommodation complement for students in the scholarships displaced from higher education, in order to ensure that the supplements paid are in accordance with the average price of the private accommodation practiced in different cities in the country. Therefore, the housing support to be applied this school year is now, for example, in the case of the municipalities of Lisbon, Cascais and Oeiras, of 456, 41 € and in the port of 432, 39 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The increases now approved extend to 38 % the support allocated to the accommodation of students and displaced fellow students, representing, for these same students who are outside the residence, annual support to more than 1321, which may give up to €5020 per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u9	Now you have the floor Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One million and 300,000 children and young people, the focus of our action, have returned to school and classes these weeks. This is a year in which support actions will be developed to improve the integration and learning of Portuguese for migrant students, in which the recovery of learning focuses on the areas and years of schooling identified in the measuring instruments as most affected by the impacts of the pandemic, in which the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) will continue to infrastructure schools and qualify more adults. We will reverse the cut of 5 % by the PSD government to vocational education and increase the funding of the Inclusion Resource Centres by 25 % after we have increased the funding of special education colleges by 27 %. [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] It is also the year of the 11 measures that have already been developed to enhance teachers' career, with a value already above EUR 300 million. These measures are: 1. Relationship of more than 8000 teachers, the highest value of registration; 2. Introduction of dynamic binding mechanisms; 3. Reduction of the distances from the pedagogical zone tables from 10 to 63 ; 4. Annual recovery of vacancies from 2024, which will improve the chances of approaching residence ; 5. Opening of more than 20 000 school board places in the 2024 competition ; 6. Regularization of the professional situation of technological education teachers who did not have access to the competition of teachers; 7. Regularization of the professional situation of visual and audiovisual arts teachers of artistic schools; 8. Introduction of two rates of remuneration for hired teachers; 9. Counting the time of service provided in day care by the educators, for the purposes of competition; 10. Association of teachers who teach in Portuguese schools abroad; 11. Establishment of a career acceleration instrument for teachers who have been in service since 2005, which has served throughout the freezing period from 2011 to 2017. The theme of the lack of teachers is central to the Government Programme — 98% of students have classes in all disciplines, but any situation in a student who lacks a teacher is of priority intervention. Every week, many hundreds of hours are being solved, reducing the number of students to whom a teacher is missing every day, even though more than 600 hour replacement requests are being made every week. I wanted to leave a final note of compliance to the municipalities and the autarchs for another start of a school year, in which the tranquility was demonstrated associated with the competences transferred and assumed by the municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u11	I would also like to thank the honourable Members. Ministers for the scrupulous fulfillment of time. Let us then begin the first round of the debate, with the intervention of the Socialist Party, by Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in a debate on education and during the month of September, of course we will hear about problems in the opening of the school year and we must start by giving the appropriate credits to disaster specialists in this area. This is an infographic of the Manhã Post on October 23, 2014. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. The title is « Chronology of chaos ». The chronology begins on 9 September and on 4 October it says: "Minister does not keep promise and cancels contracts. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] On September 11, he said: « One month after the start of the classes, 400,000 students are waiting for a teacher. » This is past. Luckily, this is happening. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Let's talk about the present and the future. Let's talk about students. The recently published OECD's Education at a Glance 2023 report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) highlights some data on education in Portugal. Between 2015 and 2022, the percentage of young people between 25 and 34 years of age who completed higher education rose from 33 % to 44 % while the proportion of those who did not complete secondary education fell from 33 % to 17 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u13	In the same period the percentage of young people with secondary vocational qualifications rose from 14 % to 20 % and the percentage of young people who are neither employed nor in education or training in Portugal is 3, 3 % below the OECD average ; and participation rates in preschool education are significantly above the OECD average, 78 % compared to 73 %. These are results. [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] They are concrete results of the education system, which mean real improvements to people's lives and real contributions to a structural transformation of our development pattern. You mean there's no problem? [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u14	I ask the services to stop counting the time, what they have already done, and we will quietly expect that there are conditions for us to continue. Now, whoever wants to move away, he can do, he has the ether at his disposal. [[Laughing.]] They don't want to. Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. You mean there's no problem? Of course there are problems. We in the government and in the PS know that there are problems, even because we are trying to solve them. Already the right opposition, what it does is to repeat that we ruled eight years ago and still — see there! — there are problems in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u16	Is eight years short? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u17	It's a kind of typical reasoning... [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] ... of whom he has never assumed governmental responsibilities or of whom he has assumed them, but has already forgotten what this means—in fact, of whom he runs away from his own responsibilities. Let's see, a news in the Express newspaper of December 12, 2017. The speaker showed the news he mentioned. The title is « Candidates to the teacher almost unemployed from 2020 onwards. And the lead is: « Study on the need for teachers for 3. the cycle and secondary estimates that only 470 new professionals will be needed between 2020 and 2025. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u18	You know what a lead is?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u19	We have a curiosity: where has the Express been looking for these spectacular data?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u20	To the Manhã post!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u21	Source: a study included in the report of the state of education of 2016, prepared under the responsibility of David Justino, former Minister of Education of Durão Barroso, future vice president of Rui Rio and future president of the National Strategic Council of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And then we realized why already in 2019 there was a president of the PSD who said: « There are more teachers. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] The point is that this study provided for a continuous and sharp drop in the number of students, and the truth is that in recent years we have invested this fall, the number of students is increasing at all levels of education. We now have more students than in 2015 at almost all levels of teaching, and it is to see the data of the student profile published today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u22	They're immigrants!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u23	The truth is that there are not only more students, there are also more teachers and educators. In 2021 - 2022, the public school has, from pre-school to secondary school, more 8681 teachers than in 2015, whereas, on the contrary, the Government of Passos Coelho took nearly 30,000 teachers from public school. Thus, even with the increase in the number of students, we managed to improve the student/teacher ratio. This is an investment that is worth it, because it produces results for people and for the country. [[Be serious! Be serious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u24	And what are the results? Between 2015 and 2021, the retention and withdrawal rate in secondary school dropped from 15, 5 % to 8, 4 %. During the same period, the completion rate in scientific-humanistic courses rose from 70 % to 90 % and in vocational courses rose from 74 % to 84 %. Such advances do not happen by chance, are produced by a good functional partnership between good political decision-making and good school professionals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u25	And it is to continue this partnership that we are here, with problems that need to be solved, but that we will continue to resolve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u26	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia André now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : There are no teachers. Teachers are missing and you have recently stated something that is obvious to all ministers of the last 10 years, 15 years—as opposed to what is said here—that is, 10 years have not been reformed so many teachers, that by 2030 we will need 30 000 teachers, that this is a global problem. Mr Minister, this was, and it was predictable in many international and national recommendations of the National Council of Education, in particular because, 10, 15, 20 years ago, the age structure of the teachers was stabilized and therefore we all knew that those teachers, over the past x years, would retire. at that time, the number of unemployed teachers at the door of the job centre was very large — only do not know who was not a teacher and was not in those ranks, only do not know who forgot that there were teachers who were unemployed on September 1 and for a long time, until they were relocated, when they were.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u28	There's nothing wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u29	So the fact is that the system had too many teachers for the needs of that time. However, as we all knew, if the teachers, however, will be reformed, for those who entered the 1990s and early 2000s — by chronology it was easy to predict — this should have been planned and this training of teachers should have been done precisely 5, 6, 7 and 8 years ago at least. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The way of doing it was very simple: articulate with higher education and realize how the courses that had been closed, however, would be recovered, especially in universities that form teachers for the 3. the cycle and secondary. Was that done? No, it wasn't. In fact, it hasn't been done today, contrary to what you promised a year ago, when you said you would think about paid internships,... [[PSD applause.]] ... that would consider training professionals who entered schools to be teachers, even if they did not have pedagogical training. The Minister said that he would create higher education for these teachers, who would enter with some ease, especially in the 3rd. the cycle and no 12. year. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, what pedagogical training has so far been set up in higher education with your colleague in higher education. What are you planning to train more teachers in a structured way in both initial training and professionals who are in another career and who want to return to education or who want to enter the teaching career? Moreover, Minister, the international and national recommendations speak of valuing the career of teachers. It is a very well-known phrase, but in order for teachers to be able to review, evaluate and value their careers, several things are needed, in particular, those that are being claimed by teachers in demonstrations: improve their pay, their working conditions, their assessment — see it, because the regulatory decree in 2012 suggested it! — etc. Thus, Mr Minister, even if you do not think of teachers, at least by Portuguese students, Mr Minister, you have to improve the career of teachers. This is because a school without teachers is not a school and Portuguese students need teachers, but in order to have them in schools, you will actually have to take action, if not by the teachers, at least by the students. What will you do to have more well-trained teachers in schools? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u30	Following the registration order, to intervene on the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In July, in the debate of the State of the Nation, I had the opportunity to ask Mr. Prime Minister, as he had already asked the Minister of Education, how many new education professionals, as teachers, already had in September, what the relationship between retirements and new contracts for next year and what the estimate of students without classes, at least, to a discipline. At the time, we did not get an answer and, in these days, the Minister of Education said, about the beginning of the school year, that, and I quote, « neither the government nor anyone can make a precise estimate of how many students start the school year without teachers. » The government did not make a forecast, nor does it need it, and in the Liberal Initiative we wonder how public policies are made with this lack of planning and expectations. So let's go to the actual numbers, transmitted by FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), who say that there are 80 000 students who started classes without all the teachers, groups where more than 20 teachers are missing, classes with six teachers lacking six disciplines. The Portuguese, for example, the discipline that they consider essential for exams—and well, despite the controversial decision to leave Mathematics behind! — started the school year with four times more hours to fill than in 2022. The problem, which has been diagnosed for years, has worsened. Data from the needs of teachers who by 2030 were quantified at 34 500 at the moment are growing. Why? Because there is less attractiveness of the profession, because there is higher retirement rate and because there is greater needs. The reduction of birth and the lowest number of children are being filled—and well! — with more children of other nationalities due to the effect of immigration. This is above all notorious in pre-school, will have a growing impact on other cycles, and here too we wonder if they will say, in a few years' time, that they did not have time, which is a surprise, that they need more time to solve. Do we ask whether you are already preparing or whether there are no numbers or any sort of prospect? Faced with the situation, Mr Education Minister often says that the machine is working, that we are meeting needs, but this is little, it is still very little. There will be extra difficulties and I see here, systematically, still today, but many months ago, many exchanges of accusations between parties about whom it is most guilty. I also witness accusations that the public school is being attacked, particularly me and those who are concerned about contributing to improving the system, confusing or confusing it with the concept of public policy. I have two things to say about this: firstly, that there are eight years in the government and that this would already have been negotiated, reformed and already in the second cycle of training.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u32	Eight years is not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u33	I must also say that when families hear this kind of discussion, they simply don't want to know, they want solutions. Politicians, and even more the rulers, cannot be caught up in a speech of past and past. Yes, we have to give confidence with concrete numbers, solutions, vision, reforms, it is not using words that will sound hollow or that do not bring concrete solutions. This cannot be done with excuses or vague things, which only remove trust and credibility. On higher education, very quickly, I leave two notes of congratulation, in relation to the results of anticipation of both scholarships and placement accesses, topics on which the Liberal Initiative had the opportunity to approve, here, draft resolutions unanimously, and which we know make the difference in social mobility, especially for displaced students. I also want to leave two signs of alarm, one in relation to mental health and another in relation to the financial difficulties that persist, due to the lack of support for student housing, for the promises not fulfilled in relation to university housing. The whole issue of social action must be reviewed and budgeted. I'm going to finish, convincingly saying that we don't have to be afraid of changing, we have to be afraid of leaving education as it is. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u34	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u35	Mr President, Mrs and Mr Ministers and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: The way the political class has discussed teaching for decades is the source of the structural problems affecting schools. This Parliament has to change for the next time the governments also change. There are points of consensus. At the beginning of a school year worse than before, no one should doubt the need for a health cord to the Socialist Party and its government in matters of education. From reaching the PCP, the Left Block and the other parties, we have a lot to agree on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u36	God free me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u37	The time of service frozen to teachers is not acceptable in any decent society. Work now and I pay later, when and how you want: this cannot continue to happen unpunished. Salaries and careers don't attract teachers. When more and more teachers and operational assistants are missing in schools, they only seek solutions that are not consistent with socialist governments that destroy the future of children, adolescents and young people, of families in the country. It is inhumane not to properly support students with disabilities or applications for mobility due to teachers' disease. It includes the teaching of Music and works in schools. Outside of the rhetoric we have heard from Mr. Minister of Education and Mr. Porfirio Silva, teaching has been in a dead end for a long time. That is why nothing else unites us in this Parliament. Is any political party or government surprised at the beginning of this school year? The continued degradation of the environment in schools was more than predictable for many years. Only, at the moment of truth, the socialists are never isolated. The only thing that is always isolated is the arrive party, by André Ventura. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is clear why: we will never give in to chaos in teaching. Over the past 20 or 30 years, no parliamentary group has been concerned with ensuring the financial sustainability of the Ministry of Education. Mismanagement of public money is the guarantee of chaos in public schools, which are schools of the deprived and middle class. Did no political party here know that it was necessary to cut seriously the expenditure of the parasitic bureaucratic machine of the Ministry of Education? Did no political party here today know that curricula can't be extensive, bad, insatiable bakers of public money? Is it today that the Minister will answer this fundamental question from which he flees? But that's not all! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have been closing your eyes for decades to the continued worsening of the indiscipline, bureaucracy, violence, « examicide»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u38	“ Annihilation ”? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u39	...the replacement of knowledge by ideology. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Here is a clear case of zero tolerance for politicians and governments who hide the evil and fraud in schools. Today, this Parliament will be flooded with crocodile tears. Fortunately, it will not stop growing the number of Portuguese people who demand that education change and seriously change. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u40	To intervene in the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u41	Mr President, Mr President, the Minister presents here what I thought was impossible, which is the normalization of 90 000 students without teachers at least one discipline — normalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u42	Normalization? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u43	It is all going well, we have managed to do this, we have been able to do this, but at no time do we refer to the consequences of having students, years and years in a row, with the lack of teachers and the responsibilities of a government — which has them — and of a minister who has been on the government team for eight years. However, there are problems that remain. I have read carefully the various interviews which Mr Minister has given at this time, and I have read in Vision that the lack of teachers is not a new issue nor has it been anticipated. Mr Minister, but it seems, because when they asked him what he did with the anticipation of the lack of teachers and the predictability of what was going to happen, he replied: "Three years ago, we ordered a study. » Oh, good! So, if we've ordered a study three years ago, it's all settled, the students will have teachers. The Minister adds: "The country has not been able to plan. » Mr. Minister has been on the government team for eight years, but the fault of the lack of planning for the lack of teachers is from the country, he is not from the Minister. Then he adds that by 2030 we need more than 30,000 teachers. I agree, but when they ask you where we are going to look for them, the Minister's answer is: "Well, in Germany it is worse. » See that, in Germany, there is even more lack of teachers than in Portugal! About how we will do to solve the problem by 2030, about that, there are no answers. There is a question here that I think it must be very clear, Minister : that what is happening in public school with the lack of teachers does not result from any boycott, from any sabotage to the action of Mr Minister, does not result from any natural disaster. The teachers in this country were not abducted by aliens. They are there, they exist in the system, they were being expelled from the system and were being abused, seeing their careers devalued and not having the conditions to give classes or having very precarious conditions like those that correspond to dislocated teachers. The main message I wanted to leave right now is that the Minister is not in the state of things that we have reached.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u44	Not the Block either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u45	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u46	Therefore, the continued victimization of the Government does not correspond to its responsibilities in this area. The Minister has the main role in this history, because, when the Left Block has put forward proposals to support the displaced teachers — the fact that teachers have to pay to teach is identified as one of the major problems of the lack of teachers in this country — and to solve the problems of 50-year-old teachers, with grandchildren, who have to divide rooms to be able to teach, what Mr. Minister and the Socialist Party did in this House was to chumbar these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u47	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u48	So it is not worth coming here and becoming a victim of a problem that Mr Minister has created, because if you are responsible for the problem of strikes and for the unrest in which families live, this is the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u49	To speak by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u50	Mr President, Minister for Science and Higher Education: I listened very carefully to her, particularly with regard to housing problems and the programme of building student residences, but I would like to highlight two key notes here. The first is that it is clearly urgent to accelerate the construction and supply of public residences. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u51	We can't keep up with the pace we're at. It really needs to be accelerated, because the shortage is intense. I repeat the number: 104 000 beds missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u52	It's coming from behind!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u53	With regard to the addition of accommodation, it is important to draw attention to the need for urgent measures to combat price speculation in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u55	Prices are absolutely incomportable and are a factor of demobilization and early drop-out of education. Many students don't really get in.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u56	They must be full of work at the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u57	The Minister, if I am not mistaken, did not answer the very serious question of the precariousness of higher education teachers and researchers. It is a truly unbelievable situation, unacceptable and outraged by the one that has arrived. Mr Minister of Education, there are really many teachers missing from thousands of students — the estimate of 90 000 is below and will certainly get worse. It is necessary to respond with substantive measures, in particular by recovering those thousands of young people who have been trained to be teachers and who have not even come to a career. By the way, I would like to ask you another question that has to do with the formation of classes with 30 students who integrate students with special educational needs. It is a situation that cannot be accepted and needs to be corrected. On the question of learning recovery, it is important to stress that the State should gather the necessary financial resources and not be dependent on the financing of the European Union. The insufficient recovery of learning reaches thousands of young people who leave for higher education or for life, in cases where they do not pursue studies. The question I am asking you is: will the Government guarantee the time-limits necessary for the recovery of learning, such as the recruitment and implementation of all workers who are essential to this recovery? Finally, the probationary period continues to be imposed on teachers for the purpose of binding, despite careers of decades of teaching service. The CFP considers that the existence of this period ignores and disrespects the cycle of higher education, professionalization, experience in concrete work and even evaluation. This is a form of degradation of the exercise of the profession, of obstacles to career progression and the generalization of illegal recourse to precariousness. Question : Will the Government exempt teachers from the completion of the probationary period, since they have been duly assessed over the years? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u58	To speak for the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : We have heard here not only about the question of more than 90 000 students without teachers, but also about the problem of teachers going to reform and the number of hours that we know this represents in terms of students who will later go without classes. We often talk about students who get to be eight hours in a row without classes. But this has a consequence, then, that it has to do with the recovery of learning, and it is about this dimension that I would like to question. On the one hand, I wonder what extraordinary measures is that the Minister will take to ensure that there is a recovery of learning in this complex context, which is the lack of teachers for the various disciplines, from the educational point of view. On the other hand, in the context of the structural inequalities that still persist in our country - and given that, in regional terms, the country is not only the metropolitan and coastal areas - I wonder how these inequalities will be mitigated and how the guarantee of recovery of these learnings will be made. Finally, with regard to mental health, we have already raised this question here and we have not received a full answer, Minister. In view of the fact that many students have been complaining that there are no protocols, especially in private education, for support for mental health — which increases expenditure, in particular in consultation — I wonder when these protocols are planned so that such support can actually exist. We know that the remnants of the pandemic still persist and that there is here a dimension of the problem that has been fought and mentioned, but this dimension of inequalities and mental health cannot remain behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u60	To intervene by the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister, Minister : The country is at a dangerous crossroads with regard to training and qualification. If, for decades, we all put on qualifications individually — every citizen, every family and country as a whole — because it benefited the country now, either because the graduates are not equally sure of having the right compensation in the country, either because the country sees the emigration of qualified young people, there is a risk that there will be a break in this collective education plan. Families will continue to invest in the education of their children and daughters, of course, this is necessary in the contemporary world. What is going to happen is that these strategies will increasingly be individualized and there may be a breakdown from the point of view of citizenship in the desire to give sufficient resources to get out of this problem. Therefore, the Minister and the Minister have a very complicated knot here to solve. I am happy to see you here together, but I do not often see you together outside Parliament announce how you can solve this knot together—and there are many things that the Minister of Higher Education and the Minister of Education can do together. From now on, one thing: if we lack teachers, why are there no announcements that have to do with the training of high school teachers, which have specific advantages? For example, exemption or abolition of the tips in courses that go on the way of teaching, or specific scholarships that are announced up to the combination of resources from the Ministry of Higher Education and the Ministry of Education. If there is a problem of residences and the Ministry of Education has a lot of heritage built for teachers who, today, in certain regions of the country—in the Algarve, on the Alentejo coast—are arriving at a certain time of year and going to the caravan or campground because they no longer have home to live, then why is there no joint announcements about residences? I know you're going to talk to me in the building that was the Ministry of Education, but we're going a lot there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u62	The honourable Member has just doubled his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u63	Finally, Madam Minister, why is there no increase in the funding formula that is now being revised for higher education institutions that channel trainees and high school graduates?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u64	Always ignore the President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u65	Look, so it's too late!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u66	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Madureira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u67	Mr President, I welcome the Ministers, the Minister, the Ministers. Secretary of State and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Minister : Indeed, this morning, we have heard you and the Socialist Party bench again trying to change the narrative of the current education in our country. As much as you try to do, the truth is that your ministry reveals a distressing inability to plan, to steer by method and to carry out projects. More: Mr Minister wants to make us believe that he lives in the best of two worlds. He spoke about the integration of students and the recovery of learning. So it is important to ask you: how do you recover from learning without teachers, without technicians and without staff at school? [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u68	Yes, Mr. Secretary of State! The fact is that there was a cut in funding and the truth is that the groupings and the gentlemen. directors said they're having a nerve attack. They are concerned because there is no time frame to be able to recover from learning. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u69	As the Portuguese people say, «they do not make egg-free omelettes». How will they recover from learning without hourly credits and without staff in schools? [[PSD applause.]] More, Minister : you were pleased to come to the learning recovery centres this morning and also to the special education schools. Mr. Minister, instead of having come here to talk about what was done now, you should have the humility of having apologized to those parents, to those students, to those families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u70	They've been waiting for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u71	No, Minister, it wasn't the PSD that took this long to review—for months! — the door office and publish it; it was your Ministry. [[PSD applause.]] What is asked of those families is an apology, it is not an ad of a porta that was only now published and that only now arrives. It's late, Minister! You've been ruling for eight years and so it was time to do it. Mr Minister, in fact, families need stability in schools and what they ask this morning is what the answer is that your Ministry has for schools, to recover from learning and so that children can evolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u72	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President, just to tell the Minister that the future has been yesterday. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u74	We are now turning to government-side interventions. First of all, Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u75	No, that's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u76	Don't you? Ah, "the future was already past", wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u77	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u78	As I said, the sentence is very true with the speech of your bench colleague, when he has — he will excuse me — the top point of speaking here about a past and the lack of planning, when what he did, already so aware of the problems that came there, was, as Mr Porfirio Silva said, rid himself of 28 000 teachers in the system and cut the vacancies for teacher training — that was done at that time. So worried are they now about valuing careers, but when they had so much time and opportunity to value careers, they did nothing, strictly nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u79	We talked about it a long time ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u80	Therefore, Mrs Cláudia André and Mrs Carla Madureira are playing a game—and here I come back to humility—to think that the Portuguese have no memory. We have memory, Portugal has memory! [[PSD protests.]] You remember exactly what was done to the Portuguese education system while you were there. Mrs Carla Madureira, since 2015 and 2016, every year, has increased the number of technicians and the number of special education teachers, which is one of the most growing recruitment groups. I am very proud to integrate this government, this political cycle, since then, because there is no government to say about students with specific educational needs what the PSD said at the time: it was a statistical problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u81	You have to go to school!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u82	Mrs. Cláudia André, your polarizing speech, Manichaeist, don't pick up here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u83	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u84	We don't work for students or teachers. We work for everyone, because the education system does not exist without teachers or students. So again, it's a rhetorical exercise that could be interesting, but it can't even be. Mrs Carla Castro and Mrs Joana Mortágua, I wanted to say the following: there is no lack of planning, there is no inaction during these eight years. [[Protests of PSD, BE and CH Members.]] Mr Porfirio Silva pointed out, well, that, after a cycle of cuts in courses for teacher training, a non-registration of the problem—because we have heard today that there are more teachers; we have heard him here today! -,... [[Protests by PSD Member Cláudia André and IL Member Carla Castro.]] ...the government has done this work. And this without support in this Parliament. [[Protests by PSD Members Joana Barata Lopes and Sonia Ramos and by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] When the PS Parliamentary Group decided to recommend to the Government and the National Council of Education a study on the lack of teachers, the other parties, the parties to the right, they found that it was not necessary to know the reality. Mrs Carla Castro, in fact, was not here, I am doing this justice to her. But there was already a member of your party here present who would also find that no planning was necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u85	Studies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u86	What we have done, what we have done over the past eight years, is known: the census has been done, the return of income has been made, the defrosting of careers, as if it were a way of combating precariousness. in this period, from 2016 until now, there are already 22 500 teachers who have linked. This is solving problems, this is giving dignity to teachers' career. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CH Member Bruno Nunes.]] Mrs Carla Castro also said that her reference source is FenPROF. FENPROF, last year at the beginning of the school year, said there were 60 000 students without classes. After all, there were 18,000; after all, they were less. [[Don't! It was 2nd period!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u87	You use FENPROF!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u88	I was surprised by the initial intervention of the Portuguese Communist Party, that they almost reached the unity of the lack of students. And he was not at unity; he was at the tenth; in the Alentejo I do not know how many: 30! 30! 30!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u89	And it's very important! Each of these children is very important! [[Protests of PSD and CH Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u90	It's impossible, every day, to be telling the exact number. Come shooting with numbers, with this degree of detail, it's just trying to fool who's listening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u91	Then it can only be a lie because it's very detailed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u92	Mrs Carla Castro, the government is not guilty, nor does it do anything vague. The government's been working. The Government has acted in the fastest, fastest resolution of the replacement of teachers, with measures which have already been widely discussed here, such as the fastest replacement, the reduction of days to demand for replacement, the revision of statutory mobility and the direct recruitment of schools, which has been a measure that has greatly accelerated placement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u93	And the answers to the questions, where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u94	The Government works with higher education in a draft diploma that will already enter into trade union negotiations on October 2, and that has been the subject of work with higher education and discussion institutions with the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u95	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u96	And he's also working for the future, to increase teacher training. Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, he always talks for decades. I calculate that, for you, in the decades of reference, all this began to fade from April 25, 1974. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u97	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u98	The evidence is exactly the opposite: if there is a conquest of our democracy, if there is a reason we do not need a 4. the Republic, as its leader says, is what Portugal has achieved within the framework of the education system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u99	I ask a question and never answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u100	We're working on bureaucracy. You know the percentage of the State budget for the services of the Ministry of Education, you know all that, but it always comes here repeating the same song. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, you have to be more careful.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u101	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u102	He'll take a little less in his notebook!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u103	Right now, I said there are problems, but we are solving them the same way the Left Block did, when it was part of the solution, in many of those years when it says that nothing has been done by teachers' careers. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] To say that there are problems in another country is not saying that "with the evil of others, we can do well". It is to realize that the complex problems are not solved either by the simplistics of MP Joana Mortágua, nor by the reductionisms of Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u104	They don't solve anything, really!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u105	So to say that nothing has been done is, once again, not to be attentive. I would like to answer Mr. Alfredo Maia by referring to a question on which we agree: no teacher, and we are already solving this, will be penalized in his remuneration index on account of the question of the probationary period. That is already being resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u106	Still going to the State Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u107	Finally, I have a final note on the learning recovery plan, which keeps the specific tutorial support extended to secondary school students, who maintain the time-strengthening credit for multidisciplinary teams supporting inclusive education, and which has more than 1200 technicians placed in schools to support mental health issues, which Mrs Inês de Sousa Real mentioned and which is currently more focused, more focused, focused, in areas, actions and years with more problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u108	But did you or did you not remove the time limit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u109	You now have the word, for the rest of your time, Mrs. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Elvira Fortunato.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u110	Mr President: I will not answer in individual terms, but I would just like to say that either the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education or the Ministry of Education actually work together. They work together that, with regard to the problem of not having teachers now enough, I would like to inform you that in the last two years, we have increased the number of vacancies by 45%. They were all placed and with much higher notes, which shows that there is beginning to be a greater attraction for this career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u112	What about the sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u113	With regard to accommodation, we are working on the part of higher education. We have the biggest program ever in Portugal: we have returned buildings, we have factories, we have monasteries, we have a number of buildings that are being made.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u114	Works are not, you need everything! There are no beds!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u115	They're not made one day for the other. Two days ago I inaugurated a residence in the Battle. We have already opened three residences and, by the end of the year, we will inaugurate four new residences, three requalified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, 60 % of the contracts signed in September 2022 — one year ago — are already under construction or under construction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u116	So let's start the second round. Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The government is de-governmenting education and de-launching the motor of individual development, the motor of the social elevator, with an impact on economic development. A touch of Sizes on the contrary, where, where we turn, disability, exhaustion of solutions, difficulty of implementation and lack of concertation fats everywhere. I'm going to give some examples, because time is little, very little, to list all. They speak in the fight against bureaucracy, which is very important, not only to increase educational times, increase productivity, but also as a factor of motivation and retention of teachers. We welcomed the announcement in summer of a package of measures — 20 measures — until we see the measures. I will give three examples: mid-term meetings can be optional; student evaluations in curriculum enrichment activities can be dispensed; and meetings with education managers can be online. This is not to unburocratize. On the one hand, it is another attack on the evaluation and demands of the school, which, strengthening, is more important for those who have less. Quality education is an accelerator of social mobility. After that, optional mid-term meetings are important, but even more so when the calendar for semesters is increasingly being implemented. And we're going to the subject of meetings with online education officers. Only two comments on this subject. First, there are schools with more problematic environments, where the challenge is to bring parents to school, it is to involve the family in education, it is that parents participate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u118	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u119	The aim is not to pass indiscriminately to online meetings. And secondly, when is it understood that the Ministry of Education is not a school director? Yes, you have to be a supervisor, a regulator. What is this deburocratization? Is it defined that the meeting is online when one cannot answer exactly how many students do not have classes? This should not be the role or concern of the Ministry. Priorities and mission are changed. This is an example, but in any case that touches many narratives are disassembled: the numbers of teacher formations that do not match the needs; tests without reliability and comparability of results; a digitization made for titles; and the theme of school manuals reused, in which a change of rules on the eves of the school year began the confusion. And I couldn't stop addressing the subject of learning recovery. For those who were supposed to be a national design, after all, in the summer it was also known that there was no money, because of the exhaustion of funds, when it was supposed to be a matter for budgetary cabling; they ended the hourly credits, when in the school community they have so much impact that it is said that this should be a non-temporary measure, belonging to a plan, but effective, systematic; and the Court of Auditors report pointed out a set of criticisms that we have been making — unfortunately, because we would have preferred to have been wrong. On this issue, I recognize its importance, because we are going to have a specific hearing, the request of the Liberal Initiative — approved by the PS — and that is why we are going to deepen this issue in this hearing. I am still calling for a real shock, which is the fact that private schools have never had so much demand. There are records, in times of democracy, of the percentage of secondary students in private schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u120	And professionals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u121	...and they will certainly not blame the liberals for this. I reiterate that education is a ‘silver bullet’, either for social mobility or for development. And the times are troubled: a child who reaches 2. the cycle without having had a 1. the convenient cycle reaches the university without having had a convenient secondary. After a year of stifling and disturbing, a survey this week says that 45% of respondents include teachers' strikes and 62% of respondents say that the government is not doing enough for teachers. Mr Minister, we agree that we do not have to govern by polls, but reform is necessary, and reform costs. The problem is that this government is not reforming, it is not doing the reforms that education needs, and what they are not doing has an impact on the present and the future. I shall finish, Minister and Mr. Members: do not tell us that we are being catastrophic, we are, yes, ambitious with education and realistic with regard to the situation. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u122	Mr Tiago Estevão Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u123	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I would like to focus, in this intervention, on higher education. And if this debate is about the start of this school year, it is important that we examine the concrete moment that marks the beginning of this school year, but also the challenges that arise for the year 2023 - 2024. In fact, with the data we already have at our disposal, we can draw some absolutely basic conclusions. The first is that this school year marks a qualitative leap of enormous importance in placements in the higher education system. When I speak in qualitative leap, I speak of having anticipated the schedule of placements of the national access contest, which for the first time ensured that the start of the educational activity was done practically at the same time for all new students and that it avoids the loss of weeks of classes for students placed in the 2. a and 3. the phases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u125	Nothing irrelevant, it seems to us. Secondly, this school year shows an increasing adjustment between the training offer available to students and what students are looking for. This is evident when we see the highest rate of placement in the first three options, which is, in fact, a fundamental factor for academic success. Thirdly, this year almost doubles the number of students very deprived of higher education. The priority quota for students receiving grade A school social action, introduced this year for the first time, allowed much more needy students to enter higher education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u126	Fourthly, this year student support will be paid early. At least 17 000 students will receive scholarships already next Monday, representing almost 30 % more students with scholarships paid from the previous year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u127	It is becoming increasingly evident that there are more and more bags and higher bags. For us to have a distanced idea and perspective, the threshold for access to the scholarship increased 59 % for non-working students and 81 % for student workers, and the maximum values of the scholarships increased 42 % for master's students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sixth: the support for displaced students will be reinforced again, as we have heard today from the Minister here announce.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u128	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u129	Scholarship students will receive more than €1321 per year, in which is the fourth increase of this supplement within one year, and, with the measures announced today, the accommodation supplements in different areas of the country will have increases between 17 % and 63 % compared to the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Seventh: the effort to increase the offer of number of residences continues at a good pace. During this school year, more than 1100 beds will be opened and, of the projects contracted in September 2022, 60 % are under construction or about to enter this phase. And finally, the tip has the days counted...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u130	Are you afraid? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u131	How many are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u132	...and a student today knows that in the future everything that pays will receive back, a measure that shows how it is possible to move forward with responsibility and gradualism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u133	Tell me how many they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u134	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u135	I shall finish with one point: the scheduling of this debate is a very good sign on its own. Every year this House debates the beginning of the school year, and the simple fact that we do shows that we all understand the importance of education for our country. But to say this is not the same as saying that we all have the same vision for education, and to say that we all recognize that the paths that each party proposes differ greatly. As an example, we do not forget, for example, how we differ from the PSD when, in February this year, it contested the special access regime for very poor students, which, in fact, allowed the number of disadvantaged students to double in higher education. We do not forget, for example, how we differed from the PSD when in 2020 it said it was against reducing the value of propines and that it should rise, as we differed from the PSD when, in a new incarnation, in 2023, it devalues the return of the value of the propines paid for each year of work. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u136	Who is staying in Portugal to receive 600 €? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u137	That's why, sirs. Members, we can certainly all have education as a priority, but neither what we propose nor the results we achieve are the same, and the data presented here are to demonstrate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u138	I now give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I wanted to begin by saying that the tone that Mr. Minister here used was absolutely indispensable to talk about a situation that is absolutely urgent, worrying,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u141	...and in which the government is not able to limit the problems, it is not mitigating them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u142	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u143	We're talking about 90 000 students who still don't have teachers at least one chair. We are talking about thousands of students who have had academic results to be placed, but who will not be enrolled and will not attend their course because there are no solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u145	Because they don't have rooms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u146	You have announced at the end of September that there will be increased support for scholarship students. We're not going to talk about timing—at the end of September, when it's late—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u147	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u149	...but let's talk about what it takes to be a pocket today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u151	And for those who are not disadvantaged enough to be within the spectrum of pocket students, what is the answer for them? Is it paying a minimum wage to maintain a student in higher education?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u152	With 800 € they are rich!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u153	The Minister and the Government have had an absolutely unacceptable position with regard to the clear identification of the problems, which results from a deep knowledge of the reality which, perhaps, the Minister should have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u154	Exactly, very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u155	That the government, by the way, does not have!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u156	... and stand against those who are proposing solutions, instead of having the humility to realize that far more effective measures are needed than those that have been adopted. [[PCP applause.]] The Minister says: 'These are complex problems. In fact, they do not only affect our country. But this would also deserve a reflection on the policy of taking care of everything that is guidelines for the devaluation of public administration, delimitation of wages, etc. etc. etc. that the government — and this government too — follows by taking into account all the guidelines of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u157	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u158	And perhaps you should reflect on the fact that you are sacrificing generations of Portuguese, young people and children, in the name of an objective, the right accounts, which no one has asked you for and which are only used to perform service. That is absolutely reprehensible. Therefore, what we ask you, Minister, in this discussion is that you are at least available to hear solutions that can make a difference in the lives of people who can solve the problems. What we ask you for, for example, is that, as far as housing is concerned, you also consider that those who are not stockholders need a reinforcement of the housing complement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u161	...that access to the accommodation complement needs to be disbursed, because students are not to blame for what the gentlemen do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u163	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u164	What we ask of you is that you use all the means at your disposal to effectively start with this large housing plan that you have been pumping — because since 2018 the CFP has been insisting on this — and that it actually will happen. You are proposing something which is, at the outset, absolutely insufficient. You are proposing to increase 10 000 beds there. I mean, you're proposing to reach 20 and a little percent...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u165	of the necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u166	... of students displaced, and come here to present this as if it was a great service to Portugal. What we are asking you to consider is the insufficiency of your intervention and that you take into account what the parties, in particular the CFP, have come to propose from day to day, to insist, and that you have been faced with this lightness which you have presented to us here. What we ask Mrs. Minister of Higher Education is that she is aware of the levels of precariousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u168	...to reach the workers of science and higher education, in particular those who even have teaching duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u170	A lack of democratic distance too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u171	It is that at the end of last year, we had about 80% precariousness in higher education, and the Minister said that stability would kill science. Upstairs...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u172	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u173	In conclusion, what we are asking is that the government does not come here with the attitude of giving lessons, because reality undermines the competence and correctness of its solutions. What we ask is that you take into account the myriad of problems and solutions that are being presented and give this country an opportunity to develop. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u174	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, of the Left Block, to whom I give the floor, is now inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u175	Mr. President, Mr. Tiago Estêvão Martins, does the tip count the days? How many? You want a paper and a pen to make the bill?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u176	Is that a joke?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u177	It is that what I saw was no announcement of the end of the tip in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u178	It was a life insurance tip!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u179	What I saw was an attestation, a life insurance, a guarantee, that the tip will continue to exist in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u181	That is what I have seen against, indeed, proposals from the Left Block and even the opinion of some leaders of the Socialist Party, apparently increasingly minority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u182	Get a plate for you to sign up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u183	Mr President, there is no doubt that we are living — and I recognize that to the honourable Members. Ministers — emergency periods. The lack of teachers is catastrophic, the problem of accommodation for displaced students is a tragedy. But this tragedy, and here I repeat what I said recently, does not result in an act of sabotage against the government, nor in a natural disaster. In the case of the accommodation of displaced students, this tragedy results from the lack of courage — I would say more, of cowardice — of this government to face the privileges, businesses, speculation in the real estate market, allowing students to become the weakest link in a market that has become wild. Unlike the Minister of Education, who has no idea how many teachers are missing in public school, the Ministry of Higher Education has an observatory, an observatory of misfortune, which is the Student Housing Observatory, an observatory that tells us something very simple every month: there are fewer rooms and are more expensive. There are fewer rooms and they're more expensive! And that's what all the students see all summer: since June, July, they've been passing the exams already thinking about how they're going to get a room in college, they're spending the summer looking for the room in college, they're coming to September and they're still waiting for the government to decide to give a response to the room problem in college. So there is a problem that is obviously the result of an emergency, but an emergency that did not fall from heaven. And what the government refuses to do is to take measures that correspond to the size of the emergency, because the support that the government is promising is directed only to those who have less. These support does not reach most of the students displaced. The government naturally spends more and more of our taxes on them, because the real estate market is counting on this, and it expects the government to continue to subsidize speculation, and there are no emergency or structural measures to solve the problem of student housing. The Left Block also presented concrete proposals here, which have been completely ignored. So far we do not know what is the result of the protocols that the Ministry of Higher Education has announced it would do with the tourism sector to ensure rooms for displaced students. Is this an emergency? It is, but it was necessary to have treated her in July, not now, when the students are already scratching, they are giving up, not now, when the students no longer know where they will go to sleep and what appears are rooms on boats, they are rooms at 500 €. Every day we open the real estate sites to see the misfortune that is happening in this country and how this affects the right to education. Who wins with this? Of course, companies that open private homes, which, in fact, are beneficiaries of a miracle, and I think that this miracle has to be explained, because private homes manage to pry through the whole country with a speed of construction never seen—never seen! — but the public residences are all by 2025, by 2026, in a few years, if they go well. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u184	It's private! Now there's the difference between the private and the social state!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u185	Meanwhile, private luxury residences, with rooms at 500 € or 600 €, and some even for tourist purposes, will appear there. Where do they not appear? In Anadia. In Anadia I guarantee that they do not appear, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u186	Mr António Topa Gomes now speaks of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : when listening to this debate, I remembered, for a moment, the Apollo mission 13. I am going to address the Minister of Science and Technology essentially, but it is not due to merit in science, it is about the phrase « Houston, we have the problem ». It's just that, in fact, everything is a problem: there are no accommodations, there are no teachers, there are no... [[PSD applause.]] And our tragedy is that the commander's name is not Jack Swigert, it's called António Costa, because he actually solved the problem, but here, about solutions to the problems, nothing. I am surprised that, after eight years of government, we have still managed to take no responsibility for what we have done. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister is out of the question, but she has been a governer for a year and a half, and I am telling her about the accommodation in higher education, because one and a half years is certainly not the time to solve the problem and reach the 26 000 residences that you promised, but it is time to have some results. in this year of 2023 I still don't know these results, so I would like to know what the effective results are. I imagine it won't be the 7000 rooms that the moment was promised for 2023, but what numbers are? At least, and I do this honour, they provide data, data from the Ministry of Science and Technology, which are accessible, and this allows more informed policies. A second aspect that I think is important to mention is the question of intelligence, planning and strategy in the conduct of residences. It was very caricatured a situation in a residence where there were no students, but I think it is necessary to look at the data. I am going to mention Lisbon only because Lisbon is the city where the situation is most critical: it is the municipality with more students, it is the municipality where the rooms are more expensive, it is the council where the ratio between the number of rooms in accommodation and the number of students is lower — and, if we take into account the number of students displaced, it is much lower, about a third below the national average. So I was hoping that Mrs. Minister would make informed and intelligent policies, but I'm sorry, what I've seen are just uncontextualized ads. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Finally, I leave one last point. Of course, we appreciate the strengthening of social measures, but we must bear in mind that this strengthening of social measures reaches a relatively small range of the population. Today, is it possible for a middle-class family to have a child moved to study in Lisbon, with a room at average values, of €450, paying tips, paying transportation, paying food? How many years have we returned, in this respect, with this PS governance? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u188	You now have the floor to speak, Mr António Cunha, also from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u189	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u190	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u192	Fraquinho!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u193	You have approved six budgets — six! — and now it's nothing with you. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]] Take your clothes off, it's nothing with you. So you didn't plan, you didn't anticipate it, and it's the misfortune you see.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u194	Fraquinho! Is that the best you can do?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u195	Mr Porfirio Silva, recently confirmed RTP Memory, but Mr Deputy, we tuned RTP, TVI, SIC. And I'll tell you: today those who attend schools know that there is a lack of workers and teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u196	Who invited them to emigrate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u197	You need to get out of the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u198	... you know that teachers are overloaded with bureaucracy, you know that the government is intransigent and does not respect teachers because you prefer instability, you know that there are students with specific needs who are abandoned by a government who vowed not to leave anyone behind,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u200	... you know that there are no resources to deal with violent special students, you know that assaults on teachers have increased, you know that the support of your school social inaction is real alms... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u201	...and knows that there are not enough teachers to teach or recover learning. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] The government decides, through the PSD proposal, to extend the recovery of learning for another year, but withdraws 3300 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u202	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u203	Justification? There is no European money. This is the country that you have created, by hand extended to Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u204	All right! [[Congrats from PSD MP Carla Madureira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u205	With a tax burden above all levels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u206	And they say there's no disrespect? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u207	... with more than 2 billion euros by July, there is no money for learning recovery. Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame! [[PSD applause.]] The slogan "no student stays behind" is misleading advertising. You have come here today to make a fantastic portrait of what is happening, but for three consecutive years there have been a lack of teachers, that there are students who are at least without a discipline all year round — a discipline!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u208	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u209	Another question: the Minister said days ago that they were now preparing 29 residences for teachers, but he did not say that these residences would also serve health professionals. Confirm this, Minister? Therefore, in eight years, with thousands of teachers displaced, 29 residences. Another thing, Minister, I do not resist: you, who is a teacher, do you really think a teacher is formed in two years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u210	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u211	I shall finish, Mr President, with one last question. Minister, the paid internships have already been discussed here in the Budget for 2023. We are on top of the Budget for 2024, and I ask: when are these stages and what will the remuneration be? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u212	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, well at this stage of the debate, I would like to ask them directly with some questions. I'll start there by Minister João Costa. I heard him recently in the media saying that he needed time to solve the problems. I do not know whether Mr. Minister was being self-responsible as Minister of Education or whether he was being held responsible for himself as former Secretary of the State of Education, who, even to the small mouth, many said to be the true Minister of Education. Mr Minister, it is indeed very high to use your own word to say that it needs even more time after you have been in the government for eight years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u214	Exactly! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u215	You are missing the truth because you do not want to assume your complete incompetence — total incompetence! — to solve the problems of education. I'll tell you about two problems, one of the teachers and another of the students. Minister João Costa, why can't teachers with health problems ask for mobility near their families? of around 6358 — precise and true number, Minister — who required mobility for disease, only 4107 were placed near their home, near their family. Do you not think it completely inhumane that more than 2000 professors who are reasonably ill could not have gone near their homes and families in order to recover, Minister? Regarding the question about students, I want to talk to you about foreign students. Mr. Minister, there are more and more foreign students in Portuguese schools, and there are even groups of schools with more than 20 % foreign students — Cascais, Loures, Odivelas, Braga, Odemira, Vila do Bispo, Loulé, Albufeira, Aljezur, etc. etc. in these groups of schools, Minister, discrimination is total. Foreign students are discriminated against and schools don't do everything they can. It proves this is that they have absolutely much lower school results than Portuguese students. As a consequence of this, Minister, I brought here a news from the Express—not to say that the Arrival is xenophobic—and I will read the title: "As immigration is changing a system: public schools earn thousands of students, waiting lists grow in schools. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker showed the news he mentioned. Your immigration policy and your education policy are the best friends of private schools, and you do demagogy when you attack the right to say that it helps schools, but they are the main promoters of private education in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u217	I would like you to explain to me whether you do not find this a huge paradox and a huge lack of humanism for students, both for Portuguese and for foreigners. Ms. Minister Elvira Fortunato, I would also like to ask you a few very simple questions that would answer me directly, not as in the first round. It is, Madam Minister, I am sorry to have to remind you, but you are here to answer to Parliament. So please respond to each political party. Mr. Minister, for a socialist minister, does it not seem to you that the public testimony of a victim of sexual harassment should be valued? Or is the credibility of the testimony of sexual harassment considered dependent on the status of the aggressor and whether man is heterosexual or left-wing? Has the Minister, as the highest executive of public education in Portugal, apologized to victims of sexual harassment in Portuguese universities? I should apologize to the victims of sexual harassment. Furthermore, Madam Minister, does it not seem to you that it would be quite appropriate to form an independent committee for sexual abuse in higher education, as other institutions have done in Portugal? Mrs. Minister, be responsible. Sexual harassment in Portuguese universities has to be addressed, it has to be faced, and it has to reach its last consequences, so that it will leave the Portuguese universities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u218	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u219	Mr President, there is also one question I would like to ask, which has to do with the Court of Auditors' own recommendations to disseminate the detailed information on the amounts allocated to the programme and the monitoring of the achievement of the targets set. In fact, we have been talking about data here — Mr President. Ministers throw us in with some data, and the opposition has come to do their polling work — and we would like to see, Mr Minister and Mrs Minister, when the fulfilment of what the Court of Auditors itself has been alerting and appealing, which is precisely this type of report. On the other hand, there is a matter that has to be transversal to the various ministries, because the linkage cannot be dissociated from other responses, particularly from housing. A lot has been said about student accommodation, but in the linkage, in addition to the criteria, in the view of the NAP, the placement date should be anticipated for the month of May, so that, for example, there could be a greater perspective of the rehabilitation of the family context and the family restructuring of teachers. We ask whether it is available to work effectively in the next State Budget, either from the point of view of changing the date of placement of teachers, or from the point of view of, in conjunction also with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Housing, to ensure that there are other answers, including a housing grant — like some pilot projects already existing, for example, in the Algarve, at the level of medicine — so that teachers who do not find a home may, for example, have a housing grant, thus ensuring that no teacher has to "walk with the house at the back" or that, less, no teacher in a situation of illness has to have a genuine competitive procedure, rather than being able to be allocated to their area of residence, and to use this mechanism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u220	To intervene by the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u221	Mr President, Minister and Minister : We already know that the wage reality of our country does not help the qualified young people to stay here. The gentlemen. Ministers can say "this is a problem more for other ministries than for our own", but it is a problem for your ministries, particularly for the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, that many of these young people do not come back because it is not just the level of wages anymore, it is the question of precariousness and bureaucracy, particularly in research and higher education institutions, that does not allow them to return. That is, who is returning to the country, after doing a doctorate out there, or after doing research out there, to find himself in a situation where he does not spend most of his time doing what is best and in which he has just had to allocate much of his effort and commitment to try to ensure some stability and sail the sea of bureaucracy in our institutions? The programme which the Minister announced, the FCT-Tenure — we have passed over the hearth of the designation in English, I apologize, which only helps to isolate even more the higher education of the country's designs as a whole — little funding, gives less support than the former Stimulus programmes to the Scientific Employment and does not give universities and research centres the predictability to be able to have researchers in the long term. And that's serious, too. What we need is a new financing model — not only a new financing formula, but a new financing model — which constitutes a strategic fund for support for higher education, financed, for example, with part of the economic activity taxes, which gives directors and directors of centres the possibility to hire in the long term and, indeed, have real chairs for young researchers. We need the State budget to provide for programme contracts where, indeed, the institutions have the ability to launch competitions and we need a fund to support the student of higher education, because in fact, what was presented by the Prime Minister was not the end of the pro grammes. It is, in fact, a system that, in a way, is more wicked than the previous one, because, here, families advance...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u222	You're doubling your time again. You have to conclude, you have to stick to your time, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u223	It's true, but I see that others have spoken even more. I'll conclude by saying that... [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u224	No, sir. So far, no one has doubled the amount of time he's been given. Therefore, you must do your best to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u225	It's proportional, I don't know if you understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u226	I conclude, Mr. President. what we need is a fund to support the student of higher education that will allow the proper abolition of the tips and then that people who have higher incomes pay, through their taxes, if necessary, an increase in higher education policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u227	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u228	In the speeches of the Government in this round, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Elvira Fortunato, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am here, myself and my colleagues, to answer to Parliament and answer all the questions that have been raised to me, but as I think we should save and use time in the best possible way, being constructive, I have grouped the questions into subjects and have not referred to the individual name of each Member. As regards this second round and the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Alfredo Maia, Joana Mortágua, Alma Rivera and Antonio Topa Gomes, who have to do with the accommodation, I will answer in block, not to repeat the same thing four times. Regarding accommodation, once again—and I'm going to repeat a bit of what I've already said—we have 131 projects running and, as you know, in terms of the PRR, we have three types: we have new construction, we have adaptation of returned buildings, like factories, etc. , and we have requalification of old residences, which were in very bad condition and in which some of the beds were not used. Clearly, this takes time. Not all processes have the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u230	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u231	What is already done is: three residences have been opened, four more residences will be opened by the end of the year and three more requalified residences will be opened. So this is what is being done. And we are working on the goals we set with Brussels for the PRR to reach 26,772 beds in 2026. But because we know that this is not enough — and we are not stopped, we are worried — we will also launch a second phase, just to reach at least 30 000 beds. The PRR is now not only in motion as concluded, which is much more important. Two more days ago that was done. Therefore, we have works that have been paid under the PRR and that are completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u233	Regarding the question of Lisbon, only in this district will we have more 3000 beds. We'll have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u234	The district has 200,000 students!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u235	Sir, the beds don't appear from the sky, they don't appear... [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u236	But if they don't, it doesn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u237	I like very much scientific fiction, and these areas, but they do not appear by the work of the Holy Spirit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the projects are being executed. Some take longer, but it's all being done. In fact, we have had meetings with all promoters to ensure that the works are executed in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u238	When? When?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u239	On the question posed by Mr Pedro Frazão on the harassment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u240	Okay, and it's all the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u241	... as you know, these are the powers of the institutions themselves, under their autonomy. However, already last year, in May 2022, I sent a letter to all institutions to pay attention to all these aspects. We did an investigation to all the institutions, where we had a result of around 80 %, just to know if they had codes of conduct and if they were all open channels. So this is being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u242	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u243	Institutions themselves have the ability and autonomy to open investigations and even sanction them. We have cases, already in the past, in which one or two teachers who were forbidden to teach were dismissed. So the system is working. And because we think it's a problem and we're not stopped, because that worries us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u244	Make an independent commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u245	... we did a working group, exactly on harassment, together with the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs and the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, to see this aspect from the pedagogical point of view, because that is what we can do: training, teaching, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u246	An independent commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u247	...because there are even colleagues who do not know that they can be harassed. I think I'm done, thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u248	Now you have the floor Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Before I started responding, I wanted to greet the students who have now arrived at the gallery and the gentlemen. Teachers who accompany them. I think they're from Braga, because of the faces I'm seeing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u250	That's nice. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u251	I will try to answer in order, firstly replying to Mrs Carla Castro. Member of Parliament, when measures are presented, speak of 'possibility', 'possibility of', it is not necessary. But to an education officer who wants to talk to the school director about something short, the possibility of not moving to school is not to impose. And no, the Ministry of Education is not a school director. The Ministry of Education heard school directors to move forward with the measures proposed by the school directors themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u252	It's the problem of lack of autonomy in schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u253	So if the honourable Member is willing to listen — which is not the case now — then perhaps he can see the difference between what he says and reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u254	It's a sovereign! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u255	I differ from Mrs. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, not much like science fiction, but I like reality, and neorealism in particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u256	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u257	Tell the honourable Member that the timetable for the recovery of learning has been completed. They're not done. I have already indicated here the credits that have been granted and what we have done for this plan. It was a plan for two years, it was extended for one year, from the monitoring it is, Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real, available on the website of the Ministry of Education, with all the indicators and all the reports that have been produced over these two years to evaluate the implementation of the learning recovery plan. We have hourly credits, freely used by schools—which diverge from the past, in which credits were given, but after all they were not given — and we have, yes, funds allocated, we have, yes, money invested in the recovery of learning. Mrs Deputy always takes advantage of a little of her intervention for advertising to the private sector, from which teachers are actually leaving for public school. [[IL Carla Castro's Chamber of Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u258	You're the best friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u259	We're not in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u260	And in this regard, when he talks about reforms, let me tell him that, yes, this political cycle has many and good reforms in education: in the curriculum, in which for the first time, we have a full curriculum aligned with coherent and systematic guidelines and a curriculum oriented to the skills most required by contemporaryity;... [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] ... in inclusion; in the autonomy given to schools, which the right wishes to give only to the private sector, withdrawing from the public sector; in the tutorials that were created;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u261	So many!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u262	... on the map of placement of teachers, which has now been changed; in the fight against precariousness, which has made it possible to link, this year, an unprecedented number. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] These are reforms. What is not reform is what would be, for the honourable Member, the great structural reform in education, the teaching check, to continue to benefit the private sector. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u263	Everything's running away from the public!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u264	Mrs Alma Rivera, beyond the confusion of the recipients she has made, wanted to tell you the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u265	It's all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u266	...there is, yes, a stopped identification of the problems. It is not true what Mrs. Joana Mortágua said about the need for teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u267	You showed that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u268	You know so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u269	We know what the need for teachers is. We know that this year we are placing about 1000 hours on each recruitment reserve, also taking into account the 600 requests for new times that we have every year. Mr António Cunha,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u270	Is that it? Oh, my God! Don't you have anything else to say?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u271	...don't say things that aren't true. He says it's now that there's a lack of teachers at the start of the school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u272	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u273	I said! He said it wasn't in the old days.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u274	Three consecutive years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u275	Well, I'll remember numbers. It is true that we have more than in recent years, and it is true that this is absolutely diagnosed, identified, but we are acting and we have been taking action to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u276	Then it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u277	But I will remind you of the times when Mr Cunha thought there was no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u278	RTP Memory again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u279	In 2012 - 2013, at this time of year, 1433 teachers were missing. What did the PSD say? Nothing! [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] In 2013 - 2014 there were 2657 hours to fill at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u280	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u281	Go back!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u282	In 2014, there were 8668 hours to fill at this time. So, tell the whole story there, that the country likes to know the whole story. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I would also like to clarify this: yes, teachers for the training of teachers have a duration of two years. A teacher is trained with his degree in science and the master’s degree in teaching, which he does in two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u283	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u284	So, go and study university curricula so you can know what's going on. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u285	Mr Minister, I ask for some language restraint, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u286	I should have asked for a long time ago! It's a lack of education from the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u287	I call for silence so that the speaker can finish his speech. I've already made the remark that I thought it was my duty to do. Mr Minister, I ask you to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. Also, Mr António Cunha, did not leave students without classes throughout the past year, contrary to what he said. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] On the paid stages, we will be moving ahead with trade union negotiations. We have worked with higher education institutions and we have decided that they will be salaries and not scholarships, and this was the subject of discussion with higher education institutions over the past few years. Finally, Mr Frazão, I wanted to tell you, first of all, exactly what you probably have not read in the news. I didn't say I needed time, I said old problems get fixed over time. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u289	The problem is eight years old, called the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u290	And I don't need time, time is running out, and that's why the government has been working, without wasting time on solving the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I give you just one note: I welcome your concern for migrant students. There's time for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u291	Immigrants! Migrants are birds!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u292	I appreciate your veterinary accuracy and your knowledge, which I do not have. I must say that last year, a notice has been published that allows students who do not have Portuguese as their mother tongue no longer only to have the solution of replacing one discipline with another, but may be several months only to have training in Portuguese, maintaining contact with the classes. As you mentioned, there are schools that have more than 20% of immigrant students. These schools have since been included in the TEIP (Educational Areas of Priority Intervention) programme since last year, precisely to have access to more technicians, to more hourly credit and to give the best support to these students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u293	We are now moving to the closing phase. First of all, the Government is speaking to the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Elvira Fortunato.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u294	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Have we ever had a school year in which the results of the third phase — I repeat, third phase, which begins today — ended on 30 September? No, no, no. Have we ever had a priority quota for very poor students? No, no, no. Did students applying for scholarships ever find out they had a scholarship the day they knew they had been placed? No, no, no. Have students ever received their first scholarship on September 25, how will they receive it next Monday? No, no, no. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Has a programme ever been proposed for the undetermined scientific career in order to ensure stability in this career? No, no, no. So these are the problems, the challenges, which the government has — and has — to which it gives answers to these issues that I have just asked you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u295	Now you have the floor Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public school is one of the best results of our democracy. Against the voices that feed black portraits of black portraits that try to eliminate from the public debate the transformation of our educational system and the immense quality of the work carried out in schools, we respond with the evidence, evidence of what the public school has and does: in the curriculum aligned with the main challenges of contemporary contemporaryness; in pedagogical innovation; in support for students, who do not leave out and select them; in the 148 nationalities that attend it; in the more than 40 sports sports modes practised; in initiatives to promote the reading of libr learned teachers, the libraries of which today have an increase of 22,000 books, funded by the National Reading Plan; in their 897 Clubs Cience Sciences Science Viva Viva, which are not leaving out and select; in the 148 nationalities, in the 148 nationalities that attend higher education; in the 40 sport modes of sport modes of sport; in the initiatives to promote the reading of library teachers, whose libraries have an increase of 22 000 books to be chosen between athletes or students; in the National Reading Plans; in their 897 programmes; in their 897 programmes; in response and in the field development of career development programmes; in ; in ; in the internal management skills; in ; in the field skills; in the field; in the field; in the field; in the field; in the pilot of the pilot of the experimental skills and training of the experimental skills of science of science and in the experimental skills of science of science of science of science of science of science of science of science of science and training; in science of science of science and teaching skills; in science of science and teaching skills; in science and teaching skills and teaching skills and teaching skills and teaching skills and teaching skills, and teaching skills, and teaching skills; in the field; in the field; in the most 4000 and in the field; and teaching skills of the field; in the field; in the field; in the field; in the field; in the field; in the field; and in the field; in the field; in the field; in the field; and teaching and teaching and teaching and in the field; in the field and in the field and in the field and in the field and in the field and in the field and in the field and in the field of teaching skills of teaching skills of teaching skills of teaching skills of the field and in the field and in the field of the field and in the field of the field This list could continue, and it could continue thanks to the work of all those who are in schools. The ambition of our country is characterized by the intensity of action on the qualification of young and adults. We're gonna need a lot of new teachers. The demand for teacher training courses has increased greatly in the last two years. The conditions of linkage in less time, of reduction of distances, of fixation in schools rather than zone frames are tools to give new teachers a stability that has not been guaranteed to teachers in recent decades. Remunerated internships will ensure better access to training for candidates. We resolve the present with determination. We are committed to ensuring that Portugal never reaches the dramatic situation of lack of teachers that has already affected several countries in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u297	To close the debate on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government came to this debate as if the beginning of the school year was running beautifully, but it is not. There is no correspondence with reality to the rhetoric that the government brought here, just in its head. How can it be all right when there are over 90 000 students without a teacher in all disciplines? We have learned that, for the Minister, this is not a dramatic situation. So it's not? Students who don't have all the teachers, classes that don't have six or seven teachers, don't you think it's dramatic? It was enough that one didn't have one. This clearly shows the position and option of the government on the problems of public school. [[PCP applause.]] How can it be all right when there are high school students who don't find a room because the costs are unbearable? Madam Minister, until you know the placements sooner, but if you do not find a room that allows you to attend higher education, the government is pushing these students to give up. That is what we want to avoid, and that is why we brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic to demand solutions and answers to the problems affecting education in our country. A new year begins with old problems. It is inconceivable that the Government has not taken the structural measures to respond to them. In the face of the obvious degradation of public school, as a result of the right-wing policy options pursued by PS, PSD and CDS and accompanied by the Liberal and...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u299	It's all and something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u300	... which have been translated into the de-investment, the attack on workers' rights, the Government has confirmed today, in this debate, that it will continue the path that has brought us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u301	What about management? How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u302	It did not bring solutions to overcome the problem of lack of teachers. Will the government value the careers and salaries of teachers, so that teachers return to education, or do young people opt for training for teaching? You didn't make any commitments. If he does not, the problem will tend to get worse, and what is already dramatic will be even more serious. One of the aspects of greater justice is the recognition of the time of service worked. We do not accept the blackout of 6 years, 6 months and 23 days that the government wants to impose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u303	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u304	As for the precariousness of basic and secondary education and higher education, once again, the government 'puts its head on the sand', as if it were nothing with it and as if it did not have the responsibility to guarantee rights, stability and working conditions. And what about the beds that don't come out of paper? There is everything, as we have heard recently — programmes, buildings, even monasteries — which is not even the beds necessary for students to be able to attend higher education. [[PCP applause.]] Students don't need ads, they need solutions, they need investment realisation, they need homes. from parties to the right, PSD, Liberal and Arrival Initiative, we witness the instrumentalization of real problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u305	Ah, and the PCP doesn't instrument? Is the PCP the only one not instrumentalizing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u306	... when its true goal is not the defense or valorization of public school, but the dismantling and privatization of education, to make it a business for private groups, in fact, for what the government and the PS contribute a lot, by not responding to the problems of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u307	That's it! [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u308	And we have to say the following, Mr. PSD Members...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u309	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you, but you are not having the conditions you deserve to be heard, so let's wait a bit. [[Pause.]] Looks like it's better now. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u310	To the cemetery of political parties!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Members of the PSD — allow me to express myself, Mr President — 'there must be a lot of cans'. [[IL Members' laughs.]] The PSD that today hypocritically speaks of the lack of teachers is the same PSD that invited teachers to emigrate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u312	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u313	... which increased the number of students per class, which imposed segregation on students in 6. year. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u314	Six Budgets! That's political hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u315	This is your responsibility for unemployment and the worsening working conditions of teachers. And here, in this House of the Republic, it was the PSD that gave the hand to the PS and the PS government... [[PSD protests and PCP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u316	You guys gave it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u317	Ah, do you have memory now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u318	...that the accounting of all the service time would not be a reality. This is your responsibility! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CH Member Protests Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] It is once again confirmed that it is not in the PS Government, nor in the PSD, in the Liberal Initiative or in the Arrival, that the solutions for the valorization of public school and for investment in higher education are located.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u319	No, it's communism! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u320	The current situation makes it clear that what is needed is to block this course, what is needed is an alternative policy of valorization and investment in public school, free of charge, quality and democratic for all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u321	Yeah, yeah! A communist talking about democracy! How curious! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u322	...to ensure the integral formation of the individual as well as the access of all to the highest levels of education. For this purpose, it is essential to value the careers and wages of education workers, to combat precariousness, to count all the time of service for the purposes of progression, to link all teachers with three or more years of service, to end of quotas and vacancies in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps, the hiring of teachers and technicians necessary for the recovery of learning, the freeness of the exercise cards or the strengthening of social school action, the investment in the construction of residences and the extension of the housing complement for displaced students, the strengthening of the financing of higher education institutions, as proposed by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u323	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from here we send a greeting to the teachers, to all the workers of education, to the students, to the parents, for their action, intervention and struggle in defense of the public school, for their courage and for their determination. Today, as in other times, the struggle is what determines. There is strength in the battle for public school. from the PCP, here we will be, as we have always been, by a public school of quality for all, by valuing its workers, by a future of progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u325	How many Members are you going to elect in Madeira? Zero! Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u326	It was hard for you to hear, wasn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u327	So we finish point one. We move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 85 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create the database of inhibitions and removals and to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1151. We say good-bye to the gentlemen. Ministers dealing with our education. I renew the request to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government for maximum restraint in the use of the word. We have a sequence of votes which takes up 82 pages, I believe, in the script. To present the bill on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Justice, Pedro Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill submitted to the Assembly of the Republic intends to authorize the Government to create the database of inhibitions and dismissals, thus ensuring full transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1151, which has amended Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1132 with regard to the use of digital tools and procedures in the field of corporate law. Many of the measures encouraged by the Directive are widely known by Portuguese companies and entrepreneurs and are available online in the registration services of the Digital Justice Platform. In fact, in the past six years, justica.gov.pt reported with 185 services, more than 20 million visitors and about 50 million shares carried out only in the last year. Portugal anticipated 15 years to dematerialize the business creation process emanating from the same Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1132. It is important to remember that, among us, it is possible to create companies online since 2006. Currently, two in three companies are made up of the Internet, and more than 244 000 companies have already been created, since this service started completely online. In June this year, after a national public hearing programme, we took an important step towards making this procedure simpler, more efficient and integrated. We launched the Online 2.0 Company in May of this year, which made it possible to build a society in just 10 minutes, being possible to electronically sign social pacts, make payments in different modalities or even create anonymous companies in a more efficient and faster system, with pre-filled data that the Public Administration already has, always with its own permission, exempting it from providing more data to the Administration. The company's life cycle is, in fact, one of the most fundamental reforms included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan for Justice and aims to give integrated support to companies, from its creation to eventual extinction. By the end of the first quarter of 2024, the platform will provide new features, which will, for example, allow the creation of fully online branches, still this year, or the Central Registry of Effective Beneficiary. In order to achieve, among other things, this relevant goal, the Institute of Registers and the Notary(IRN) has ongoing investments of more than EUR 30 million, of a total of 40 million provided for in the RPP, representing 71 % of its RPP already contracted or in proceedings on the street. This modernisation movement adds to the multi-annual commitment to hiring new workers, which is already under way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the creation of this database, to be integrated into the business life cycle and into the Online Enterprise 2.0 platform, it will be possible to ensure more rigorous compliance with the measures of inhibition and dismissal decreed by the courts and regulatory entities, both in Portugal and in the other countries of the European internal market. First of all, as soon as these authorities communicate the decision of inhibition and dismissal to the IRN, it shall be recalled to the commercial register, informal and free of charge, the termination of the functions of managers, administrators, directors, representatives and liquidators. On the other hand, where, at the time of the request for registration of the appointment or retraining of members of social bodies, the commercial registration services shall, by consultation with the database of inhibitions and dismissals, verify that the person concerned is prevented from carrying out his or her duties, the request for commercial registration shall be refused. And interoperability mechanisms are also created between the database and the European system of commercial registration interconnection, BRIS ( Business Registers Interconnection System ), which will enable commercial registration services: communicate whether a particular natural person is inhibited, on the basis of the information contained in the database; or also request information from the various Member States on inhibitions and removals available in their national registers. This interoperability requires technological developments that will be achieved by the end of 2024, which means that in the first phase communications will take place even more traditional methods, but will happen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the introduction by the justice of these communication and control mechanisms, it is intended not only to comply with the European directive, but above all greater transparency, more confidence and consequently greater competitiveness of the national and European economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u329	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to extend my congratulations to the Minister and to the Members. State Secretaries. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u330	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is a government claim in which the PSD sees itself. In fact, the creation of a database of inhibitions and dismissals is relevant, in particular in situations where, for the exercise of trade, for the occupation of certain positions or even for the administration of foreign heritage, as is the case with the curator, people are dismissed judicially or inhibited, so that this can be public and known, providing security and greater confidence in trade relations between people. Therefore, the Directive provides for a mechanism for exchanging information on whether a particular person is prevented from exercising the position of administrator of a company as well as other relevant information, and allows Member States to refuse the appointment of an administrator subject to an inhibition of the exercise of that position in another State. It is no doubt appropriate that such abusive behaviour as members of social bodies of commercial companies can be verified, thus ensuring that the competent authorities of the Member States can verify whether the person is not prohibited from exercising as an administrator, which appears to be quite important for the safety and confidence of the various economic operators. To this end, the competent authorities should also know whether the person concerned is registered in any of the relevant inhibition records in other Member States, so we also believe that the system of interconnection of company records between the various Member States is important. Therefore, what is intended is to create a database, which will remain under the scope of the Institute of Registers and the Notary and will, of course, entail changes to the Commercial Register Code, among others. So far, it's all right. However, this authorization, as well as the content of the authorized decree, leaves a few loose ends, some doubts, which I will state here, only in the form of a warning, and, if they understand relevant, will always go in time to make the proper reflection on these issues. First, the clear and effective regulation of who are the entities that can consult this database. After the opinions that were together on the request, it is important to consider whether only those listed on the list are sufficient. There won't be others eventually? Titleing entities, which grant titles, make contracts, make writings? It is not only the registers and notariates and the conservatives who, at this time in Portugal, make public writings and title, give titles to others. Therefore, it is good to reflect on this and to see if they are all there or if, eventually, they may still be missing one or the other. These digital tools and procedures that you have spoken about, which are essential, indeed, to this evolution, to this control, to this confidence and that are very important, can never cease to be harmonized with guaranteeing, robust, anti-fraud and abuse mechanisms, ensuring the protection of the people concerned. And I think you'll also have to guard this with some security. As for the organization of the database, it was also open. There are three models: centralized, decentralized and distributed, functionally or geographically. We did not realize what was the choice, and it would be important to realize which technical choice will be made for the database model, so that we can also have a perception about whether it will be the most appropriate for our specific case. in this same sense, some of the recommendations made in the opinions, in particular the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ). I cannot finish without giving the most important note, in my opinion. The PSD considers it useful, as I have already said, to create this database, which is relevant and absolutely effective, but leaves this warning: if, in inhibitions, its duration is associated with the decision it is intended to make - therefore, inhibition will always be for a certain time, the judicial decision itself clearly says «is inhibited for x years», that is clear – is no longer so as to dismiss. Many dismissals have no temporary limitation, so you do not realize how long the person will stay in the database: if it is the time of Article 7. the, which is not more than 20 years old, or if it is another that eventually understands more reasonable. It is that, attention, 20 years, for a person who is dismissed at the age of 30 or 40, is a sort of perpetual penalty, and life sentence is prohibited in Portugal. This assessment of proportionality may be barred in some constitutional constraints, so I leave this alert here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u331	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u332	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Union is one of the largest economic areas in the world, created with the effort, commitment, dedication and ambition of all the Member States that integrate it, of the people who live in it, study and work, of the companies that operate and invest in it. It is a single market, without frontiers, based on four fundamental freedoms: free movement of products, free movement of persons, freedom to provide services and free movement of capital, all of which are added to a fifth fundamental freedom, which is the free movement of opportunities. It was on the basis of these principles and those freedoms that an area of prosperity, peace and social and economic progress has developed, to which we now call the European Union, in its most macro and aggregating form, and these will always be the principles that should guide the continued evolution of the single market, combating protectionism, statism, nationalism and socialism and defending liberalism and freedom in all its aspects. It is in the defence of this area, this common market, that it is necessary to deepen the rules that regulate it. That is why we are discussing today a legislative authorization to allow the Government to legislate on the creation of a database of inhibitions and removals of members of social bodies. With this database it is intended to facilitate the sharing of information and access to entities from other Member States, preventing and preventing the misuse of the European area. Legal certainty and deepening of the common market governs the need for the creation of this database, which is not opposed by the Liberal Initiative. However, being important for the prevention of fraudulent behaviour, we do not fail to note that the regulation should respond to the defence of rights, particularly in the issues raised in some opinions, such as that of the National Data Protection Commission, for the protection of Portuguese and foreign citizens interacting with the Portuguese State and in the national territory. Once again, it is evident that liberals do not fight or defend the total deregulation of the market, as some ar autos on the socialist left and on the right protectionist propagandise and parrot. What the Liberals have always defended is the existence of clear, fair and stable rules that last in time and have an objective purpose to protect all actors in European and global trade. This is to want a more liberal Portugal, that is to believe and want a more liberal Europe. A final note of curiosity for this proposal, which is from this government : that it is also a proposal for self-learning for this government, and, if they want to put order in society and on the market, they begin to put order at home, which is an example of what has happened and continues to happen in the Ministry of Defence. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u333	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u334	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The directive, as has already been mentioned and as the explanatory statement itself, provides for such mechanisms to exchange information on whether a particular person is prevented from exercising the position of an administrator of a company, or other relevant information, and allows Member States to refuse the appointment of a person as an administrator if it is subject to an inhibition of the exercise of managerial positions in another State. Thus, it is intended to protect all people who interact with societies or branches in the face of possibly fraudulent or abusive behavior. Therefore, the Government is asking for this authorisation because it is necessary to create a database of inhibitions and dismissals, in which information on these situations will be organized, and also seeking to prevent this type of behaviour that we have referred to earlier. These are worthy objectives, of course, and which we can not fail to follow, but which end up relating to aspects that deserve increased care, taking into account the protection of personal data and sensitive data and even the very compatibility of what is provided for in the directive and then in what the Government requests authorization to enshrine, with the GDPR itself (General Data Protection Regulation). There are aspects which have already been mentioned here and which have to do with the differentiation that must be made between inhibitions and dismissals and these aspects are all referred to by the National Data Protection Commission, which in some cases even advances concrete solutions, which I think we should consider and analyze and, eventually, to receive or seek other contributions that may be useful to the specialized work. We are, of course, available for this proposal to be as cautious as possible, ensuring this increased protection of Member States and citizens against criminal activities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u335	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u336	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : When I examined this transposition of the Community directive, I realized that the first thing we do is we continue to be a terrible student in the transpositions. Since 2021 we have started the transposition of this directive and we always leave anything to do. Then, for the people at home to try to understand what we are talking about here, from this inhibition database, we could have the following: if we had created a database of inhibitions for government members,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... we did not need to make a form with a series of questions and we realized, if we had something identical, rather than for companies, if it were for the rulers, that most of the current rulers were inhibited from performing functions in this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u337	By speaking specifically of the Community directive, we have nothing against the proposal presented here. However, we believe that some of the warnings that have already been raised here should be very well thought out. We know that there is that Brussels centralism in relation to collective hysterism which has suddenly occurred in Brussels with respect to GDPR, and we hope that the individual rights of each one will be safeguarded, but that they will not enter into madness and hysterism with regard to this position. We have some doubts about the way the GDPR works in Portugal, and I believe that they will have some difficulty in transposing this directive and that it will be adapted without making a change to GDPR in Portugal. Regarding the model, we are also concerned, that is, if it is more centralized, if it is more decentralized. We would like to understand in particular the way in which transposition will be applied or implemented so that we do not have problems in the future. With regard to those accessing the database, we would also like to make it more clear by the Government that the aim of this final transposition is to ensure that we also have no objection to this transposition with Brussels again. As regards the database, as I said, we believe that everything that is a legal basis and a principle of legal certainty at national level — and we believe that this directive brings this contribution to Portuguese legislation — is important. It is a measure that can prevent double taxation, fraud, much use of the legal failure that currently occurs and therefore we agree with transposition and we will vote in favour. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u338	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u339	Madam President, I also welcome you. Members of the Government here present. The legislative amendment that the Government brings to us today, by providing for the creation of a database for inhibitions and dismissals, makes a significant contribution to combating fraud not only in Portugal, but throughout the European Union. However, and although we follow the initiative in what its objectives are, we cannot fail to put two reflections on the government. First of all, since personal data that are sensitive are concerned, it would be good for the government to present a model of closed database design instead of a range of alternatives. And we therefore leave this question in fact to the consideration, although, as we know, there is no such possibility, given that the process will not go through the specialty. A second point to say that it is reasonable to establish something which the Advocates' Order itself has already criticized, which is access to the database by lawyers, in particular to constant information. It does not make sense when, for example, the constitution of a company or other company amendments is in question, that lawyers can see the registration of such acts rejected only because they do not have access to this database. We therefore leave the Government's appeal to include lawyers, but not for the imperative of unbureauty and speeding up these procedures themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u340	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u341	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government proposes the creation, as a result of the transposition of a directive, of a database on inhibitions and dismissals of those who — by placing simply, for those who accompany us — fraudulently, in front of an undertaking, of an economic group, have carried out some illegality and that this information can be exchanged from Portugal to other countries of the European Union to Portugal, or from other countries of the European Union to ensure that, alerted to this circumstance, these persons are prevented from carrying out a number of administrative acts. Nothing against this idea, but I wanted to warn you. Members of the Government in particular, but the country in general, what will happen: there will be sent from Portugal information sets of people who are in front of companies who have committed crimes, who have not paid taxes, who have escaped their obligations as managers or business administrators, and the completion of many of these cases is that they are indigent people, have no heritage, have no capacity to pay their obligations and sometimes have no even relations with companies. And the government knows that? You know! Mr. Secretary of State recently made here, with gaudio, an announcement, saying that the government was the great promoter of agility, flexibility, the ease with which companies are created in our country, the Company in Time. For example, it was enough to speak with the Tax and Customs Authority (AT ) to realize that all these facilities have served huge schemes of people who are found on the street, to whom it is paid certain money to stay in front of companies on which they have no responsibility, do not earn money and on which it is not possible to ask for any kind of responsibility. So when we start sending to Europe the list of people who say that they are prevented from belonging to business administrations, from being business managers, from Europe will tell us 'but why is that of interest to us? » and, indeed, those who are interested are not caught. I will end with a very concrete example, a case that shocked the country. Joe Berardo, the great businessman of the country, the business lighting, didn't even know what he had in his name. He's going to see himself and he didn't even have anything in his name! It is another example that one will realize that after all this well wrapped up, in fact, who is always stolen is our people and it is with this kind of measure that those who are led by fools are deceived. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u342	Are we talking about Robles?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u343	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u344	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government: In order to build the internal market of the European Union, it is essential that there be mutual trust between the legal and institutional frameworks of companies operating in that internal market and that are equivalent in all Member States — without such mutual trust there can be no internal market. And in a context of freedom of movement, it is also important that Member States have access to information in relation to possible fraudulent practices with criminal frameworks that can cross borders and that even administrators can in some ways repeat their fraudulent and criminal practices in several Member States of the European Union. From that point of view, the European directives which we want to transpose here and for which we will have to create databases to ensure that the government implements them properly make sense and also makes sense of the authorization which the Government is asking for from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u345	Mr Pedro Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u346	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs : As we have seen here today, we are discussing the bill that creates a database of inhibitions and dismissals by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1151. This Directive introduces two relevant amendments, which is the possibility of setting up companies of branch records and the presentation of documents and information in full online and also the need for the adoption of rules on the inhibition of administrators as well as the exchange between Member States. That is why this initiative has positive objectives that are reflected in the fight against corruption, fraud situations and even greater transparency. Don't stop being curious that this far-right Parliament arrives — take advantage of this moment...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u347	Right-extreme? Extreme ignorance is what the honourable Member has! Extreme political ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u348	... in which European legislation translates a case in which Portugal is the leader and is almost two decades ahead of this dematerialization to say that we are late. In other words, when we have a leadership position, the extreme right can say that we are late and still says « so you can understand at home». That is how you can easily lie to the extreme right. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u349	We have verified that Portugal, as I said, has created online companies since 2006, including the Company in the Hour, in which this process was done in an hour and then with the Online 2.0 Company, in which the process is done in 10 minutes. I repeat, what was done in an hour today is done in 10 minutes, and today we have more than 244 000 companies created by this route.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u350	It's the 50 minutes that make all the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u351	I wanted to respond to the concern of the Left Block, which basically tells us that one thing is we can want to fight fraud situations and abusive situations...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u352	Talk to AT!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u353	... and another thing is we want to do this fight and devalue instruments that are also positive for other goals in the country. That is to be a little populist, but we have seen that the honourable Member is comfortable with the intervention he has made. [[BE's protests.]] The Liberal Initiative demonstrated its agreement and managed to speak of a number of things that had nothing to do with, such as the fight against statism, socialism, everything else, and still put the Ministry of Defence in the middle and had the possibility to do almost a sort of "see there, that this here is not a liberalizing excess", that is, it shows that it already has this concern, and it is good to see that it incorporates this in the political discourse. As for the PSD, the PCP and the NAP, the parties that were most constructive in this debate, I mean that we basically share some concerns. The PSD has told us that it is a relevant initiative and that we need to have clear and effective regulation that even seeks to respond to opinions that have been issued, in particular that of the CNPD, and has told us of the concern of the type of databases, of the timing of inhibition associated with decision and dismissals, and of the time of preservation of these data. All this seems important to us and, as was also said by the Portuguese Communist Party, it is a work in which we will have openness to develop and to go beyond the field of specialty, going to the meeting of these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u354	There's no specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u355	I still want to note that, contrary to what has been said here, Portugal has gone beyond the transposition, with the creation of this database, which is an innovative mechanism. That is, once again, returning to those who told us otherwise, we show that we have a leadership and advancement position in the European Union and that should be a cause for pride. Portugal was innovative in the creation of this database, as well as in the informal and free endorsement of the termination of the functions of the manager, administrator, director, representative and liquidator. I leave a final note to say that this purpose is followed by a vision that combines investment and that seeks to achieve exactly the objective of interoperability, doing so through concrete investment. Many times, they say it is a vision but it is not accompanied by their means, but we see that it is a vision that is accompanied by their means and we have as a good example the recent competition launched last July, of about 21, 5 million, to develop these interoperability systems, as well as the investment we have associated with the IRN, which will total 40 million. This shows us a difficulty in opposition to see that we are investing more than we have done in the last 10 years. That is why, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members of the Government, as we have said, we will, in the field of specialty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u356	There's no specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u357	Extreme ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u358	... try to respond to the concerns expressed here by different parliamentary groups, knowing that we have implemented an important initiative in the service of better justice, economic justice, combating corruption, fraud, and that this is a positive objective and that must unite us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u359	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u360	Mr President, Mr Pedro Anastácio, there are things that are clear in this plenary and in this Parliament and others that are not so clear and that sometimes we have to explain. First: the Constitution prohibits the extreme right or any party registration as the one that continues to be referred to; the Constitution does not, however, prohibit extreme ignorance, which is what has just happened here. [[Good prayer!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u361	On the question of extreme ignorance, I would like to say to you first that this transposition will not even be discussed in the field of specialty, because we are going to vote together on the three phases. So you're not welcome to defend that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u362	He's kidding!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u363	Then you did not clearly study what we are discussing here. Just read the explanatory statement of Law No 85 / XV / 1. the, that is, what we're dealing with here, to realize that when I mentioned the delay is because the transposition was done...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u364	No, no...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u365	Do you want to hear or can we all keep talking to the side? [[Protests of PS Members.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u366	Mr President, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u367	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is enough to read the explanatory statement of the proposal that you have been discussing here — and that you have not been able to argue a single point in the explanatory statement, because you have not even talked about what we are talking about here. —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u368	Don't you read it! Don't you read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u369	... and just see that the document that came to our possession, sent by the services, says it is a partial transposition initiated on 9 December 2021. So if you heard the intervention carefully, you did the housework and read what you came here trying to discuss, without knowing the cause of what you are trying to discuss, you realized that there is a delay of two years due to this government's responsibility in the transposition of the directive. That's what I explained to him. You heard me wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u370	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u371	I asked myself to spend the rest of my time giving you this explanation, to avoid extreme ignorance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u372	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the end of this debate and to this end Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u373	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I should like to thank all the contributions that have been made today and to clarify some points that I think are obviously relevant. For now, I would like to point out that this directive had three aspects and three components: the first one, as I said in my speech, concerning the possibility of establishing online companies—in fact, in 2006 no Member State was creating online companies and we were already creating online companies, because this directive provided for the possibility of all Member States to do so, but the fact is that some are still operating this phase; the second one has to do with online branches, which Portugal also provides; the third one concerns the Member States which are now transposing what is about this component. There is something very important here. We are here strengthening competitiveness and all the work of competitiveness must itself be accompanied by transparency and a reliable system. That is what this directive brings into the European market, but it must also bring, in response to the Member of the Left Block, on the national market the capacity of us to anticipate that this system is reliable at this level. Creating online companies does not mean that we are not, as Public Administration, communicating with other entities electronically; creating online companies implies that we communicate with the courts; creating online companies means that this system has to have what we call interoperability so that there is the ability to act, at the time of creation, of changing any pact, of any company act, of changing actors in social bodies. That is what this directive brings, and that is what we are doing, both in its communication in the European area and in its internal communication, not allowing societies to be created, in fact, whenever the actors enter the social bodies and whenever there is any kind of information that is, in fact, inhibiting that person from being able to be part or being removed from that society. Something that seems to us that is also relevant here to say — and we have full availability and we thank the contributions that have been mentioned here — has to do with the separation of inhibitions, and it is important to realize that inhibitions, many of them, when we are talking about insolvencys, the time associated with them is long, such time, such great temporality and such a time frame, but with regard to and with the dismissals we can improve the drafting and forecast available, taking into account the decree-law that is associated with this project. In order to say that this process and this project are part of such a Business Life Cycle, we have these means that we have referred to, in fact, we want to provide the registration of a robust system, a reliable system also in access to that information, to this issue of the database at the technical level. There are concerns, on the one hand, about centralizing this information, taking into account access and interoperability. So we do not want the services to send this information on paper and it is lost in any conservatory, because that is not what it is intended; it is intended that these systems and the e-tributor communicate with the registers and who should have access and should have access. It is therefore a system that will generate more competitiveness, a better system of justice, a better economy, whether at national level or on the international market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u374	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third item on our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121, in part concerning cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions. To present this bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u375	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government submitted Law No 90 / XV / 1 to the Assembly of the Republic. a ( GOV ), with a view to the authorisation for the transposition of Directive 2019 / 2121, in part concerning cross-border corporate transformations, mergers and divisions. It is the aim of this government to contribute to justice for people and the economy by adopting measures to simplify the lives of citizens and businesses. We seek, in all interventions, to maximize the efficiency of services in order to do more and better. The services provided in the area of justice, including the registration service, are designed to give the best possible response to citizens and businesses. The proposed law, which is now under consideration, has the main objective of requesting legislative authorization with the sense of timely approval of the respective law decree, the draft of which, in fact, is annexed. The main object therefore lies in the amendment of the Code of Commercial Societies, creating the cross-border regime for the transformation, merger and division of commercial companies. The amendments needed by the Commercial Registration Code are also promoted so that companies wishing to carry out processes of cross-border corporate change can do so in a simple, direct, clear and fruitful way. In this way, it is intended to achieve objectives of legislative harmonisation at European level, obtaining greater legal certainty, which will be an engine for facilitating the cross-border commercial establishment, in turn, of promoting the economy, employment and wealth creation, without, of course, neglecting the most vulnerable, workers and minority partners who can disagree with the project for what are created frameworks for the protection and promotion of rights that are covered by the draft decree-law that is intended to be authorised. The Directive also lays down an obligation relating to the prior supervision of the legality of the above-mentioned cross-border operations and, for this purpose, it has been defined, as an entity that monitors the legality of these procedures, as commercial registration services. The internal legal framework already provides for a set of rules relating to cross-border mergers, and it is therefore necessary to establish the legal framework to support other cross-border societal changes. A set of procedures is established that it is important to respect the preparation of a project on cross-border merger, division or transformation, preparation of reports on the operation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u376	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you for a moment to ask the House to guarantee the necessary conditions so that the Secretary of State may intervene and be heard. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u377	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I said, the preparation of reports on the operation to be carried out, intended for the partners and intended for the workers, also through the assessment of opinions which may be issued by these stakeholders, including of course workers, and protection mechanisms are created for the members who oppose the decision-making process on possible counterparties. the workers of the companies subject to merger, division or cross-border transformation shall be guaranteed the rights to information and consultation of their attached drafts and documents, whose effectiveness we have sought to ensure in the law by means of clear rules and which shall, in particular: that the report on the draft merger, division or cross-border transformation be made available to them; that they have the right to participate in the proceedings; that they have the right to issue an opinion on their project; and that they have the right to receive a reasoned reply by the company on the issues raised. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The completion of the transposition process of this directive will represent the aim of a clearer, more flexible and more guaranteeing framework for the rights of workers and members, providing greater legal certainty and the conditions for the full exercise of the freedom of establishment which is enshrined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This ensures the promotion of the economy, the creation of wealth, employment and the protection of the most vulnerable, including workers here, in a legal framework marked by simplification, speed and balance in the protection of the interests of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u378	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u379	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Mrs Minister, this item on the agenda makes me bring back the « liberal minute» to protest, directly and syntheticly, against this form of legislation. And I am not referring here to the delays in transposition, because the average delay in transposition is capable of being below the average of the delays in other directives; it is because this delay is probably at the root of this obligation to make us vote the various phases today, preventing us from improving this transposition in the field of specialty. And what is there to improve? There's a lot. This transposition, for example, assigns the commercial registers to monitor these operations. Therefore, the officials of the registers, which have already been horrified, to whom we still assigned the management of the databases of inhibitions and dismissals, will now be responsible for the supervision of cross-border operations, both of their abusive or fraudulent nature, without any specific training perspective on this matter. This transposition is supposed to be part of an effort not only of fiscal harmonisation but of reducing administrative costs of economic activity. I don't know if it's low. It's possible! As for the costs of registering, it raises them because one of the things that increases is the costs of registering these transactions in the commercial register. This transposition is not exactly the same as the directive. For example, the directive allows the requirements to be adapted according to the size of the undertakings, the transposition does not; the directive allows the transformation project not to be presented at the same time as the administrators' report to six weeks of the general assembly, because the independent expert is doing a work that is complex, the transposition does not allow it; this same independent expert, in the directive, is responsible for attesting the adequacy of the counterparties of the operation, in the transposition it has to attest to the adequacy and reasonableness, which is a completely diffuse legal concept, which will only introduce ambiguity in this operation; and finally, the directive allows to exclude confidential information from the reports and the transposition does not. And I ask, why? Suddenly, there is confidential commercial information which, in Portugal, is no longer protected by this transposition. So this way of legislating horse mackerel, forcing us to vote on the three things in one session, prevents us from improving, and this can be very bad for the government. I do not know if you believe in signs, but the last time the adjective "cross-border" entered the political debate was about a flag on the way, and it went very badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u380	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u381	Maybe this time they can stop it from going so bad. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u382	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u383	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: This is a transposition which, like 99, 9 % of the others, comes late. I'm late! We're talking in four years. This transposition, which will naturally be approved by your majority, will enter into force next year and, therefore, we are talking about five years' delay and, once again, we are going, as a country, to go after injury in such important matters as this. But it is important, and the Secretary of State has forgotten to mention this in his speech, which we already have in our legal framework a number of rules concerning cross-border mergers and divisions and that this transposition is an adequacy that should already be prepared. If not, notice: this aims, above all, at setting the policy that is determined by the European Union, to give more rights to workers and minority partners. So, in this period of four or five years, shouldn't they be already preparing, training and clarifying the biggest shareholders, the various stakeholders involved here and, above all, the shareholders? Who will explain to shareholders, who are not part of the management, but who invest in the company, who from now on are the workers who, in some way, will send in the management and actively participate in the management of companies? And in many cases, in fact, they may even be against what is designated as a business strategy. Who's gonna make sure there's not gonna be a conflict here? It should be the government! And during these four lost years—lost! — as long as the rule has been authorised and implemented in the European Union, the government should have been not early but time-bound to reduce asymmetries that are bound to occur, apart from the costs that will be much higher and the security of the operation, which will certainly be increasingly reduced, and the Secretary of State knows that I am speaking the truth. We're going to have less security and we're going to have much more encryption within the companies with which the government wants to adapt and not transpose directly. It's another case we're going to have trouble solving. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u384	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u385	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Proposal for a Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) is intended to authorize the Government to lay down specific rules on cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions by transposing to the internal legal order of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This legislative authority, submitted by the Government, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, promotes amendments to the Code of Commercial Societies, the Code of Commercial Register and the Decree-Law No 24 / 2019, which lays down the rules applicable to electronic communication between the national commercial register and the commercial registers of other Member States. The merger of companies is due, as is the legal practice, to a strict procedural ritual, imperative in the case of cross-border mergers, in accordance with the rules on internal mergers, in particular those relating to the process of decision-making on mergers, the protection of creditors of merging companies, bondholders and workers' rights. In order to achieve a cross-border merger, one of the participating companies must be based in a cross-border region, these unique regions of Portugal and the European Union, and the other shall be constituted in accordance with the legislation of one Member State, with the headquarters, central administration or principal establishment in its territory. In view of the explanation of the reasons for this initiative of the Government, the concern is to remove restrictions on freedom of establishment by promoting cross-border trade, competition and the protection of other actors through the implementation, inter alia, of previous, repeated monitoring instruments prior to the production of the effects of such operations. Consequently, in the area of supervision and in order to monitor the records of such companies, there is the crossing of relevant information between the national trade registers and those of the various Member States of the European Union involved in cross-border operations. In accordance with the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, the Commission concludes that the project under review does not raise any reservations or observations as to its compliance with the national data protection regime. Similarly, the Assembly of the Republic, in the course of the legislative process, consulted the Governments of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, to which 15 other public, business and trade union entities, whose contributions in general do not call into question the transposition of the Directive, despite some reservations and suggestions sent to this Assembly, in particular the Confederation of Portuguese Industry, the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal, the General Union of Workers, the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Trade Union, the Superior Council of the Magistracy, the Institute of Registers and the Notary and the Order of Officials and Executive Officers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The PSD will monitor the initiative under review and will vote-CL, in general, on the expectation that the Government will assume, in its office, by appropriate proposals and suggestions contained in the opinions of consulted entities and that they are part of the legislative process. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u386	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u387	Madam President: The transposition of the directive we have discussed recently introduced a new instrument that focused more on individuals; this is a deepening of something the European Union has done practically since its inception, which is to enable companies to have cross-border activities, to move from one country to another and to carry out mergers and, if mergers, also necessarily cross-border divisions. This is a proposal that also includes some instruments for digital updating, which was already possible for companies, and makes things easier for small businesses. This directive has had some amendments from the European Parliament which have been very positive in terms of the involvement of workers in these processes — and could have gone further, of course — but it seems to me that this is another step forward in terms of the internal market, which alone is positive and which we can follow. However, this does not mean that, from the point of view of the national governments, there is no need to be very careful later so that these possibilities of greater mobility that companies now have do not harm the Portuguese economy. That is to say, we want these instruments to be used in favour of strengthening our economy, rising value scale, in terms of more companies incorporating knowledge and technology, but we do not want this to facilitate the escape of companies that are interesting to the Portuguese economy. This is another part of history, it has nothing to do with the vote in this directive, it has to do with all government action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u388	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u389	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although we agree with the objectives of this initiative, since we believe that they can enable us to identify abusive or fraudulent purposes, which lead or aim to lead to fraud or avoidance of European law or national law, in any case, we cannot fail to mention two concerns. On the one hand, we are concerned about the training and bureaucracy associated with the procedure so that this control of legality does not go beyond formality, which is essential for the services to which supervision is restricted. It is therefore important to see how it will materialise, so that, in particular, at the level of the services of the commercial register, they have adequate internal training and procedure and that the transposition of the directive is not dead letter. The Institute of Registers and notaries itself has already requested mechanisms to assist them in their assessment of these requests and in their safe decision-making, as well as the possibility of recourse to an independent expert. They are therefore the services themselves that ask for help in the implementation of the law and the minimum requirement here is that these mechanisms be given. On the other hand, we are not sure about the protection of workers in this scheme, specifically as regards the right to information and participation. And here we understand that transposition falls short of what is intended and we are concerned about how the clarification of the information itself and the formation of its representatives in this same process will be ensured, which questions we would like to see answered here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u390	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Botelho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u391	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, with this bill the Government intends to obtain a legislative authorisation for the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121 on cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions, harmonizing our internal legislation with European legislation. It is also intended to amend the regulations on registers and notaries, the Commercial Register Code and the Commercial Society Code so that they can be harmonised. In good time, the government does so, and we have already legislated on this matter in 2017, with the transposition of a 2017 directive, and now this whole regime deepens. For this reason Portugal has one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, or one of the highest employability rates in Europe. The Portuguese economy is competitive, open to competition and is, fortunately, attracting a large number of external investments, so that we also need to attract this regime from commercial companies, mergers, transformations and cross-border divisions. This legal regime adds to the legal regime we already have, because the existing legal regime adds a set of requirements. What do you intend to achieve? The full exercise with the abolition of restrictions on the freedom of establishment of commercial companies between Member States, as set out in Articles 49. o is 54. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is also intended to provide guarantees of adequate participation and protection to workers and creditors, through consultation of the proceedings, access to opinion and right of reply by the company concerned, and also to minority partners, by access to the court within the time limit for the exercise of its right, in addition to an effort to control legality, as has been mentioned here too, and prior monitoring of the transformations, mergers and cross-border divisions through the services, precisely registration and notariary. Finally, it is intended that the national trade registers of the Member States of the European Union, involved in cross-border operations, should contain the necessary information from the commercial registers of other Member States, in order to be able to follow the history of these companies. This is a set of possible transformations, as the Secretary of State said here and we are accompanying, in order to promote the economic climate, the opening up of the economic climate, the attraction of investment and the creation of enterprises. Therefore, given the development of Portuguese legislation, with clear benefits for economic activity, harmonisation in the applicable European legislative framework and guarantees given to workers' participation, procedural and record clarity, we will vote in favour of this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u392	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u393	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this proposal for a legislative authorisation law, the Government intends to transpose into the national legal system Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121 which amends Community rules on transformations, mergers and cross-border divisions of commercial companies. We are faced with a directive that does not move forward in the fight against so-called 'corporate mail companies' and that is more concerned with capital profits than with workers' rights. In particular, the mechanisms for consultation and information of workers in cases of cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions are insufficient, as are also insufficient provisions relating to the rights of participation of workers. It is critical that the importance of involvement and the role of workers' representative organisations in these processes is not present in a binding manner. Let us be clear: what is really at stake with these political options, since then in the European Union, is not to defend the small company that works between Chaves and Verín or between Elvas and Badajoz ; they are the transnational economic groups and the great powers of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u394	What about Olivence? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u395	We are talking about a Community regime and legislation which essentially aims to continue and accelerate the ongoing movement of the international division of work at European level. At the forefront of the installation of integral value chains of critical materials and equipment in Europe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u396	To the shovel? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u397	... since the semiconductors, and which became more strongly defended from the pandemic crisis of coward-19 and then with the war in Ukraine, came to exist, through the logic of the operation of the single market and in institutions of the European Union — see the case of the famous DG Comp (Directorate-General for Competition ) — the concentration of companies and entire branches of material and industrial production in the countries of the directory, such surplus economies, which are the main beneficiaries of the internal market, with emphasis on Germany, France, Holland and others of this championship. This policy is deeply negative for Portuguese workers and aims to facilitate the movement of companies into the European Union market, in particular its transformations, mergers and cross-border divisions. There are many cases and stories of companies that, on the pretext of restructuring processes, close and abandon their productive units, divert equipment, stop paying wages, fire their workers. These are deeply dramatic situations for workers and their families, which are fuelled by this proposal. The struggle of workers to halt these situations has been brave, but they continue to take place in Member States of the European Union, such as Portugal. The CFP welcomes workers and their fight to defend employment with rights, to defend national businesses and productive sectors, and reaffirms that they can continue to count on us in this fight for the future of our country. I said. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u398	To close this debate, I call on Mr. Secretary of State of the Deputy and Justice, Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u399	Madam President, I shall be brief. Of course, what is under consideration today is an authorization for the Government to make the transposition of the directive, given that there is already a content that is exactly the draft bill-law that has been associated with the draft bill. We also know all the opinions that this House has requested and that we deserve all the care, all the attention, to improve exactly what is there. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has raised here a number of questions, which we are already discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u400	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u401	I am referring to the issue of emoluments, the issue of the transmission of confidential information or, as many other Members have spoken, the question of whether or not the IRN services are carrying out this monitoring mechanism. We are also concerned about the need not to create other positions, as some proposals for opinions that have arrived at the Assembly, but we want to give and intensify training to IRN workers, so that they can fully exercise this duty. Mr Bruno Dias of the PC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u402	This ‘PC’ must be a computer store!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u403	... said we're here to strengthen the mobility of companies. Of course we are, but we also have the attention and concern to strengthen workers' rights. Will they be insufficient? For we are going to look at the issue with everyone's contribution, to see in what terms we can further improve the content. But these rights are not incompatible with the mobility of companies, which is, of course, because we want a stronger economy to create more employment, to create more wealth that can be distributed, without neglecting, exactly, the protection of workers and, if any, also of the minority partners who are faced with these situations. Therefore, let us now, of course, begin a work of deepening the bill-law project that was associated, to build the best possible solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u404	We conclude item 3 of the agenda and move on to point 4 on the management account of the 2022 Parliament which has no debate. Let us turn to point 5, which is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. As you know, we will have a long period, so we all need to be very careful and cooperate so that this period does not go too far. I ask the services to operate the quorum verification mechanism. [[Pause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u405	I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] Two Members were unable to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u406	Mr President, I was not present at the time of the electronic registration, but I am now. If it's possible to make the record, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u407	The system is still open, you can register. Mr Pacheco de Amorim and Mrs Fatima Ramos and Mr Gabriela Fonseca are also registered. We have quorum, so we will start the votes, starting with the draft vote No 432 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Maria Teodora Osório Pereira Cardoso. I ask Secretary Maria of the Rosinha Light to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u408	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Maria Teodora Osório Pereira Cardoso died last September 9, at 81 years of age. Born in Extremez, 1942, Teodora Cardoso graduated in Economics, 1964, at the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences (current ISEG ), of the Technical University of Lisbon. Teodora Cardoso began his activity at the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and entered the Banco de Portugal in 1973, an institution to which he remained connected over almost half a century until his retirement in 2019. In the Banco de Portugal, he joined the Department of Statistics and Economic Studies, which led between 1985 and 1990, then passing the management consultant in 1991 and 1992. In 2008, he belonged to the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal, where he left for the Council of Public Finance, an institution that helped design, founded and directed between 2012 and his retirement. At the same time as a professional career by all considered brilliant, Teodora Cardoso has maintained over the last decades an intervention in the public debate on economic policies of greatest relevance. There is, in your biography, a civic dimension that needs to be remembered. Certain personalities have unique characteristics and leave exemplary legacy. Theodora Cardoso added to the high analytical rigor, to the enormous wealth of intellect and to the recognized use of vision, courage, independence of spirit and unconditional fidelity to the common good and public service. In the rare combination of all these qualities, his voice has been unmistakable in recent decades, contributing several times to alert public opinion to dangerous derivatives, not always successfully, not always of the pleasure of the powers instituted. He never gave concessions to anything, nor did anyone, often ran the risks associated with heterodoxy, was uncomfortable when he thought he could not quit being, keeping intact his commitment to what he always thought was the country's greatest interest. Therefore, his voice gained a rare authority and was heard by all, even by his circumstantial contradictions. For all this, there is a huge debt of gratitude, which Theodora Cardoso's death prevents us to pay. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Cardoso Theodora, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u409	We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 440 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for the death of Eduardo Pitta. To read the draft vote, I give the floor to Vice-President Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « He died last July 25, at 73 years of age, Eduardo Gama Candido Pitta Pereira. Born in Mozambique in 1949, where he lived until 1975, Eduardo Pitta left a mark in contemporary Portuguese literature as a poet, writer and essayist. He published books of poetry, fiction (counts and romance), essay, a collection of chronics, two travel newspapers and a volume of memories. His main books of poems, from which are examples Syllaba to Syllaba, The language of disorder, Watermarks and Disobedience, among others, are translated into English, Spanish, Italian and Hebrew and his poetry is represented in various contemporary Portuguese anthologies. In the account stand out, among many, Devastation and the Trilogy Persona. In 2003, his essay Fractura innovatively addresses the theme of homosexuality in contemporary Portuguese literature. Eduardo Pitta made homosexual identity matter of literary creation, but without abdicating the primacy of artistic quality. His style of writing sometimes violent and cutting, with a fine irony, an aggressive view of existence, an autobiographical path, left an original brand in national literary production. In his most recent work, his book of memories, A boy to Arder, published in 2013, covers the period from 1975 to 2001. along his career, he participated in meetings of writers, seminars and poetry festivals in Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, Greece and Colombia. He made literary criticism in the Coloquio-Letras magazines ( 1987 - 2018 ), LER( 1990 - 2006 ) and Saturday ( 2011 - 2022 ), as well as in the News Daily ( 1996 - 1998 ) and Public Journals ( 2005 - 2011 ). Between 1994 and 2006, it signed in the LER magazine the section of poetry criticism, publishing, between 2008 and 2014, chronics in the column Heterodoxyas. He was also responsible for publishing the complete poetry of Antonio Botto. In 2010 he married Jorge Neves, his partner since 1972,... » — a big hug, Jorge Neves! —... having been one of the public figures who was beaten by the recognition of marriage between persons of the same sex, integrating the Movement for Equality. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the memory and legacy of a poet who indelibly marked the Portuguese culture, expressing its regret for the premature disappearance of Eduardo Pitta, transmitting to his family and friends the vows of his grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u411	Let us then vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I transmit to the families here present the condolences felt by the Assembly of the Republic and I request to all 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The next discussion concerns draft resolution No 877 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Saint-Étienne and Belgium. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now focus on the supplementary script on the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 81 / XV — It adopts measures in the field of housing and makes several legislative amendments. I am going to list the amendments, which will all be voted on in the specialty, and each parliamentary group will do well to indicate when I have to stop to vote. Let us begin by voting on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 1 ( 1 ). o
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u412	Mr President, I would ask you to vote separately on point (b) of that proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u413	That's not called helping, Mrs. Member...! [[Laughing.]] Let us, then, empower point (b) of the proposed amendment which I have already identified and proceeded to vote on. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the NAP and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from BE.]] It was as follows: (b) simplify licensing, strengthening supervision, flexibility in the use of land for housing use, the provision of returned and under-used buildings;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u414	We are now voting on the remaining part of this amendment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the PAN, and the abstention from BE.]] It was as follows: (a) ensuring more housing; [...] (c) strengthen security in the lease and creation of a transitional scheme for the allocation of an income allowance; (d) adopt exceptional measures to mitigate the impact of aggravating interest on housing; (e) establish measures to promote student housing in Higher Education, an income allowance for tenants under 35 years of age and a system to support the purchase of the first housing for young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u415	We then vote on the proposal for amendment 4 to the PSD, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ( c ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We continue with the vote on Amendment 6, tabled by the IL, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ( c ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We now vote on Amendment 6, tabled by the IL, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ( d ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the IL and abstentions against the PS and the CH.]] The vote is followed by the vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 1 ( 2 ( d ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the PAN, votes against the CFP, the BE and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: (d) the definition of mechanisms for the protection of tenants with leases prior to 1990;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u416	We now vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 1 ( 1 ( e ) and ( f ) are deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN and votes against the CFP, BE and L were rejected.]] We continue with the vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ( g ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE were rejected.]] We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 7 to the CFP, in the part in which Article 1 ( 2 ( g ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against PSD, CH, CCP and BE and L abstention.]] We are now voting together on amendments 4 and 5 to the PSD and IL respectively in the parts in which they delete Article 1 ( 1 ( h ). o [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstention from the CFP.]] We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which Article 1 ( 1 ( i ) is deleted. o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD, in the part where a point ( k ) is added to Article 1 ( 2 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] It was as follows: ( k ) Creation of an exceptional scheme for the provision of devolved or underused buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u417	We followed with the vote on Amendment No 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part where a point ( k) is added to Article 1 ( 2 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: ( k ) the establishment of the ‘More Housing, Better Housing’ programme for the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or conversion of 100 000 buildings for housing in the national territory;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u418	We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where a point ( l ) is added to Article 1 ( 2 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, IL and the NAP and abstentions against the CH, BE and L.]] It was as follows: (l) the creation of the transitional income allowance scheme to be allocated to less-income tenants belonging to family members with housing lease contracts;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u419	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 10 submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which Article 1 ( l ) is added to Article 1 ( 2 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: (l) the extension of the monthly grant period and the maximum period of support granted by Porta 65 - Rent by Youth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u420	We now vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where it adds a point ( m ) to Article 1 ( 2 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, BE and L.]] It was as follows: (m) the adoption of measures to mitigate the impact of aggravating interest in the purchase or construction of permanent own housing under Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June with variable interest rate, concluded with credit institutions, financial corporations and branches of credit institutions and financial institutions to be operated in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u421	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 1 ( 3 ( d ) is deleted. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 7 to the CFP, in the part in which Article 1 ( 1 ( i ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN and votes against the CFP, BE and L were rejected.]] We voted on Amendment No 7 to the CFP, in the part in which Article 1 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) are deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now vote on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD, in the part in which Article 1 ( 3 ( p ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstention from the NAP.]] We continue with the vote on Amendment No 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part where a point ( s ) is added to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH and BE.]] It was as follows: (s) the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June in its current wording;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u422	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, in so far as it adds a point ( s ) to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the NAP and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the BE and the IL.]] It was as follows: (s) the sixth amendment of the Urbanisation and Building Legal Regime, approved by Decree-Law No 555 / 99 of 16 December in its current wording;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u423	We then voted on Amendment No 10 submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which a point ( s) is added to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes for the CFP, the NAP and the L and abstentions for the CH, IL and BE.]] It was as follows: (s) the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 308/2007 of 3 September establishing and regulating the financial support programme Port 65 - Renting by Youth;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u424	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 1, in the part in which Article 1 ( 1 ) is added to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CFP, votes in favour of the NAP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, CH, IL and BE.]] It was as follows: (t) the first amendment to the basic housing law adopted by Law No 83 / 2019 of 3 September 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u425	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part where a point ( t ) is added to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: (t) the fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments approved by Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May 2015 in its current wording;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u426	We shall now vote on Amendment No 10, to the part in which a point ( t ) is added to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions of the PSD, CH and PCP.]] It was as follows: (t) The first amendment to the Organic Law No 2 / 2023 of 18 August adopting the Act of Military Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u427	We then vote on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD, in the part where it adds a point ( u ) to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: ( u ) the third amendment to the law of the general basis of public land policy, land planning and urbanism, approved by Law No 31 / 2014 of 30 May 2014 in its current wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u428	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, in the part where it adds a point ( v) to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, BE and L.]] It was as follows: ( v ) The regulation of the cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of inactive public real estate ( Programme) and establishes a special procedure for the assignment of temporary use to municipalities, the parish with more than 10 000 inhabitants or the inter-municipal entities of public property of the State domain and property of the private sector of the State and of public institutions which are returned or underused.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u429	I have tried to say « v» instead of « b», I hope you have noticed. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, in the part where a point ( w ) is added to Article 1 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the PS and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: ( w ) To the tenth amendment of Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, which approved the New Urban Rent Scheme, in its current wording, and proposes the strengthening and agility of the National Rent Balcony.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u430	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 10, in the parts in which Article 1 is added. o -A, an Article 1. o-B, an Article 1. o-C and an Article 1. o-D. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH and the IL, votes in favour of the NAP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: Article 1. o -The Purpose of Programme 1 — The Programme ‘More Housing, Better Housing’, which has been designated as the Programme, consists of the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or conversion of 100 000 buildings for housing in the national territory. 2 — The programme referred to in the previous paragraph shall be implemented within 10 years. Article 1. o-B Operation and Financing 1 — The Programme is implemented by the Institute of Urban Housing and Rehabilitation, IHRU, I.P. and the Government should promote the appropriate budgetary measures to provide it with the necessary additional financial and human resources. 2 — Under the words which are allocated annually to IHRU, I.P. the percentage of at least 0, 5 % of the gross domestic product to the implementation of the Programme referred to in Article 1 shall be affected. o -A. Article 1. o-C Previous study and sustainability 1 — The territorial implementation of the Programme implies a prior study of safeguarding and improving habitat, which considers the context, conditions and appreciation referred to in Article 14. the basic housing law, approved by Law No 83 / 2019 of 3 September. 2 — Buildings constructed, rebuilt, rehabilitated or converted into housing under the Programme referred to in Article 1. o -A are intended exclusively for own and permanent housing of aggregates with mixed income type, in the form of alienation or lease. 3 — The product of alienation generates its own return which contributes to the sustainability of the Programme. 4 — The sustainability of the Programme results from the application of strict criteria which take into account, either in the case of alienation or in the case of renting, income levels and the rate of effort recommended by the Banco de Portugal for the acquisition of real estate credits. Article 1. o-D Regulation The Government shall regulate this Act within 120 days of its entry into force, taking into account, inter alia, the following assumptions:
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u431	We moved on to Article 2. we shall vote on Amendment No 7 to the CFP, which replaces this Article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and votes against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected.]] It was as follows: Article 2 the Promotion of affordable housing It is created a support for promoting housing for lease in supported lease regime or conditional income.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u432	Article 3 is followed. o — Beneficiaries. Let us begin by voting on Amendment No 7 to the CFP in the parts in which it replaces points (b) and (d) of this Article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]] It was as follows: ( b) commercial companies engaged in the construction, consortium or other form of association with commercial companies whose social purpose includes renting for housing and the management of property, which fulfil the conditions of access provided for in Article 4. that of Decree-Law No 165 / 93 of 7 May, in its current wording, or societies in whose capital they participate; [...] (d) the municipalities, in isolation or in partnership with the entities referred to in the preceding paragraphs;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u433	We moved on to Article 7. o — Land and public buildings. We shall vote on Amendment No 2 to the part in which it replaces Article 7 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: 1 — The Government shall identify the public real estate of the State, for housing use, as well as the identification of the undue or fraudulent use of public housing, and the need for rehabilitation works.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u434	We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment No 7 to the CFP in the parts in which Article 7 (2) and (3) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the NAP and L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on IL Amendment 6 in the parts in which it replaces Article 7 ( 3 ). the addition of a new paragraph 4 and a new paragraph 5 to Article 7. Article 7. o -A, an Article 7. o-B, an Article 7. o-C, an Article 7. o-D, an Article 7. o-E, an Article 7. o-F, an Article 7. o-G, an Article 7. o-H, an Article 7. o-I and a Article 7. o-J. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP were rejected.]] It was as follows: 3 — The area right provided for in the preceding paragraph shall be transmissible provided that all rights and duties inherent in them are safeguarded, in particular the duty to assign fires to the promotion of housing for affordable rent or own and permanent housing. 4 — The beneficiaries referred to in Article 3 may. this diploma identifies the returned public real estate and carries out its candidature, in accordance with the terms set out in this law, with a view to acquiring the respective area right. 5 — For the purposes of the previous paragraph, ‘refunded public real estate’ means urban or built land held exclusively by any entities of the central, regional, local or social security administration as provided for in Article 112 ( 1 ). o-B of the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Article 7. o - Application requirements for the acquisition of the area right of the returned public real estate 1 — The application referred to in paragraph 4 of the preceding article must contain the offer of acquisition of the area right of the returned public real estate, indicating: (a) The identification of the tenderer, containing: (i) Name; (ii ) Address; (iii) Tax identification number ( NIF) ; (iv) Civil identification number or identification number of legal persons (NIPC) ; (b) The identification of the building and simple copy of the respective permanent security; (c) the proposed value for the acquisition of the building area right; (d) The conversion or rehabilitation plan of the building, including: (i) the quantity and type of the dwellings to be made available after reconversion or rehabilitation; (ii) the destination of the dwellings available after reconversion or rehabilitation of the building; (d) the reconversion or rehabilitation plan or rehabilitation of the building including the intended to be used or habituation of the real estate; and (ii) the use of the duration of the use of the use of the use of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right; 2 — The Office of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation (IHRU) shall notify the candidates within 15 days of the submission of the application of the draft decision and invite them to overcome the irregularities of the draft decision. 3 — Applicants shall have 15 days' time to take a decision on the draft decision and shall fill in the irregularities referred to in the previous paragraph. 4 — The IHRU shall issue the final decision on the admission of the application within 15 days of the candidate's reply to the draft decision. 5 — Applications shall be rejected: (a) where the building identified is not deemed to be returned in accordance with Article 112. o-B of the Municipal Property Tax Code, for this purpose, the use of the building by the entity responsible for the maintenance of real estate; 6 — For the purposes of point (d) of paragraph 1 ‘reconversion or rehabilitation’ means the procedures and undertakings deemed necessary for the buildings to be classified as intended for housing, including partial or total construction or reconstruction of the building. Article 7. o-B Form and application periods for the acquisition of the area right of the returned public real estate 1 — The application referred to in Article 7 ( 4 ). it is carried out electronically on the website to be made available by IHRU at http://www.portalda habitatacao.pt. 2 — For a period of three months after the first application, other interested parties may apply in accordance with the preceding article and propose tenders for the same building. 3 — In the course of that period, the IHRU shall arrange the tenders for their value by using the criteria of discharge for tenders of the same value: (a) first of all, the quantity of dwellings resulting from conversion or rehabilitation; (b) secondly, the antique of the offer, preferring the one presented in the first place. 4 — Upon expiry of the period laid down in paragraph 2, the IHRU shall notify the candidate who has delisted the application procedure in order to give the opportunity to equal the best bid placed on the date, available within one month to carry out an equivalent proposal. 5 — For the purposes of the above paragraphs, applicants may request support from IHRU or other bodies, including the regional or local public administration, which with those entities shall hold collaborative protocols in this specific area. 6 — All applications which are not rejected shall be made public on the same portal, providing all information concerning the applications to be completed and completed. 7 — The procedures relating to the application of the programme on the Internet, as well as the elements and documents necessary for the formalisation of applications in a form dematerialized by the candidates, are regulated at the door. Article 7. o-C Obligations 1 — Candidates, during the competitive procedure, after this procedure and as long as they have the right of surface, shall maintain all their information and the updated conversion or rehabilitation plan and shall notify the changes to IHRU within 10 days of their occurrence. 2 — The acquirer of the surface duty of the building shall, after payment of the supply value of the acquisition of the area duty, commence the procedures and undertakings necessary to complete the conversion or rehabilitation plan within the time limit laid down therein, considering possible extensions which may exist, as provided for in Article 6. o-E. 3 — After the completion of the conversion or rehabilitation plan, the acquirer is obliged to rent the housing available in the rental programme accessible for a minimum of 10 years, unless the building is intended for its own and permanent housing for an equal period of time. 4 — Acquisitioners of the area right shall be subject to verification by IHRU of the fulfilment of the conditions and duties to which they are bound for the acquisition of that right, in particular as regards the delivery of elements or documents and compliance with the conditions for the fulfilment of the conversion or rehabilitation plan. 5 — It is up to IHRU to carry out monitoring actions which it deems necessary to assess the fulfilment of obligations by applicants and acquirers of the area right, and to this end may request elements directly from those or use the procedure provided for in the following Article. Article 7. o-D Termination of the rights of the acquirer of surface duty 1 — The IHRU may terminate the area right of the building where the following situations occur: (a) Provision of false declarations by the purchasers; (b) Failure to comply with the conversion or rehabilitation plan within the time limit; (c) Failure to comply with the obligation to rent housing at affordable prices. 2 — The IHRU shall notify the acquirer of the draft decision to terminate the area duty in order to ensure that the latter proves that the facts are not verified. 3 — The failure to submit the evidence referred to in the previous paragraph within 30 working days from the notification of IHRU determines the termination of the building's surface duty, without prejudice to other legally applicable penalties. 4 — The termination of the surface duty in accordance with previous paragraphs does not confer on the purchaser the right to obtain any compensation. 5 — Where the area right ceases, the acquirer shall be prevented from applying for applications in other procedures for a period of two years and shall be subject to review all the procedures in progress in which the same is found. 6 — If the area duty ceases, the following candidates shall be notified in order of the tenders of the application which generated the procedure for the transmission of the area duty, allowing them to assume responsibility as acquirers, fulfilling the conversion or rehabilitation plan in force when the area right is lost or the conversion and rehabilitation plan is lost. 7 — In the absence of a candidate available, the building remains under IHRU, being available for new application procedure or management of the central, local or regional administration. Article 7. o-E Extension 1 — The acquirer of the surface duty may send to IHRU an application for an extension of the time limit provided for in Article 7(1)( d ) ( iii ). o -A. (b) other reasons provided that they are duly justified with documents from third parties, including situations of physical impossibility, natural disasters or other exceptional and subject to external validation. 3 — The IHRU may request the acquirer to submit documents supporting its application for extension. 4 — The IHRU shall notify the acquirer within 10 days of the draft decision and shall invite the acquirer to overcome the irregularities in the application. 5 — Applications for extension shall be rejected when the situations described in paragraph 2 are not found, or when the time limit for filling in irregularities or attaching documents, the acquirer shall not do so. Article 7. o-F Computer Platform 1 — The management of information on land and public buildings concession support is carried out through a computer platform created for this purpose, which includes a database. 2 — The purpose of the IT platform is to organize and keep up to date information on the applications referred to in Article 7. o -A. 3 — All entities to whom data processing falls under this Act shall perform such processing on this platform. Article 7. o-G Information security The IHRU is the entity responsible for the processing of the information contained in the information platform referred to in the preceding article, for the purpose of adopting the appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect data against destruction, accidental or unlawful, accidental loss, alteration, dissemination or unauthorized access, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Article 7. o-H Personal data 1 — The personal data referred to in Article 7 shall be collected for automated processing. o -A. 2 — The collection of the data referred to in the previous paragraph shall be carried out by filling in the electronic form existing on the computer platform, according to the model approved by the portal, in which applicants authorise the IHRU to confirm the data collected from the entities for such authorisations in accordance with the following Article. 3 — Applicants shall also authorise the publication of personal data provided for in Article 6 ( 1 ). o-B, except for sub-paragraphs ( ii ) and ( iv ) of point ( a ), on the Internet site to be made available by IHRU, at http://www.portalda habitatacao.pt. 4 — The lack of authorisation in accordance with previous paragraphs determines the rejection of the candidature. Article 7. o-I Data verification It is up to the IHRU to request by electronic means to the competent public services the verification of the personal data of candidates and acquirers relating to the real estate subject to acquisition of the area right, and those services shall refer the corresponding response to it in the same way within 10 days. Article 7. o-J Data conservation 1 — Personal data shall be kept for the period of time strictly necessary for the pursuit of the purpose for which it is intended, in accordance with Article 27. that of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. 2 — The entities responsible for receiving and processing information shall be obliged to respect professional secrecy and prohibited from processing personal data without instructions from the responsible authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u435	We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6 to the part in which Article 7 is added. o-L. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 7. o-L Right to information and correction 1 — Any person is recognized the right to know the contents of the database records relating to him or her. 2 — The data holder may obtain from the IHRU the correction of inaccuracies, the deletion of unduly recorded data and the addition of omissions as provided for in Article 11. that of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u436	Article 13 is followed. o — Acquisition of real estate by public entities. Let us begin by voting on the proposal for Amendment No 7 to the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 13 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the PS and the L.]] It was as follows: 1 — Onerous acquisition of property rights or other real property rights for leased leases supported or conditional income by public entities shall be permitted, in any case, and the value of the acquisition shall be compatible with what results from the evaluation procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u437	We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment No 7 to the CFP, where Article 13 is added. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 13. o -Management and use of public-built property 1 — The public-sector and business sector of the State, which can be used as housing, as well as the housing heritage of public institutions in the areas of housing and social security cannot be sold to private entities, and must be made available for public housing in supported income or conditional income schemes. 2 — The management of this housing heritage shall be the responsibility of the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P. 3 — Buildings other than paragraph 1 which do not fall within the intended use because of their heritage or high value characteristics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u438	We turn to Article 14. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estates. We shall vote on Amendment No 6 to the part in which it replaces Article 9 ( 1 ). that of the IMT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP were rejected.]] It was as follows: 1 — IMT is exempt from acquisitions of an urban building or an autonomous fraction of an urban building intended exclusively for its own permanent housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u439	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part where paragraph 2 is added to Article 9. that of the IMT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: 2 — The acquisitions of an urban building or an autonomous part of an urban building intended exclusively for own and permanent housing are still exempt, the value of which would be based on liquidation does not exceed €250 000, €00 when the purchaser, or buyers, at the time of acquisition, is 35 years old or less and is the first purchase of own and permanent housing of the acquirer/ s.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u440	We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6 to the part where paragraph 2 is added to Article 9. that of the IMT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP were rejected.]] It was as follows: 2 — The exemption referred to in the preceding article applies to the costly acquisition of partial forms of property rights affecting the urban building or autonomous fraction of the urban building intended exclusively for its own and permanent housing, when it comes to the transmission of the use, use and housing, the right of surface or the real right of permanent housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u441	We then vote on Amendment No 6 to the IL in the parts in which it replaces paragraph 1 ( b ), paragraphs 2 and 3, the prohemy of Article 17 ( 6 ) and Article 17 ( 9 ). that of the IMT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: ( b) acquisition of an urban building or an autonomous part of an urban building intended exclusively for housing which does not comply with Article 9. o: [... ] 2 — The costly acquisition of partial forms of property right does not exempt in accordance with Article 9. it shall apply the rate referred to in the previous number corresponding to the nature of the goods on which the acquired duty is concerned. 3 — Where the value on which the tax relates exceeds the limit of 1 in respect of acquisitions referred to in paragraph 1 ( b ). the step, is divided into two parts, being one equal to the limit of the largest of the steps that it covers, at which the average rate corresponding to this step, and another equal to the surplus, to which the marginal rate relative to the immediately upper step applies. [... ] 6 — For the purposes of paragraph 1 ( b ), in the transmission of parts of the building, partial figures of the right of ownership and the separate ownership of those partial figures listed in Article 13. , the following rules apply: [... ] 9 — For the purposes of paragraph 1 ( b ), the provisions of paragraph 6 ( b ) shall apply in the exchange of real estate with the necessary adaptations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u442	We shall now vote on Amendment No 1 to the NAP in the parts in which Article 17 ( 10 ) and Article 17 ( 11 ) are added. that of the IMT Code. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, the vote in favour of the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: 10 — By decision of the municipalities, by decision of the respective municipal assembly, the rate of IMT applicable, pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this Article, to the acquisition of an urban building or an autonomous fraction of an urban building intended exclusively for its own and permanent housing, with value on which the IMT affects up to €181,034, may be 0 % when: (a) the taxable person is aged between 18 and 35 years; or (b) the taxable person undertakes the acquisition of an urban building or an autonomous part of an urban building which at the time prior to the acquisition has already been taxed by IMT. 11 — The proceedings of the municipal assembly referred to in the previous paragraph shall be communicated to the Tax and Customs Authority by electronic data transmission until 31 December to be effective in the following year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u443	We proceed with the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 1 to the NAP, in the part where Article 15 is added. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CFP, votes for the CH, the NAP and the L and abstentions for the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o -The Change to the Basic Housing Law Articles 16 are amended. o, 27. o is 47. the basic housing law, approved by Law No 83 / 2019 of 3 September in its current wording, which is replaced by the following: « Article 16. o [... ] 1 — [...]. 2 — [...]. 3 — [...]. 4 — [...]. 5 — [... ] : (a) [...] ; (b) [...] ; (c) [...] ; (d) [...] ; (e) [...] ; (f) [... ) ; (g ) [...] ; (h) [...] ; (i) [...] ; (j ) The link with the National Housing Plan for Higher Education, where justified. 6 — [...]. 7 — [...]. Article 27. o [... ] 1 — [... ] : (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]; (d) [...]; (e) [...]; (f) [...]. 2 — [...]. 3 — [... ] : (a) [...] ; (b) [...] ; (c) [...] ; (d) [...] ; (e) that in all housing or cooperation programmes there will be a percentage of housing for young people up to 35 years of age and, where justified, for the accommodation of higher education students. 4 — [...]. Article 47. o [... ] 1 — [...]. 2 — [...]. 3 — [...]. 4 — [...]. (b) young people aged 18 to 35 at the date of the approval of the loan. 6 — [...]. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u444	We turn to Article 17. o — Amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August 2014. Let us begin by voting on Amendment No 2 to the part in which this article is deleted. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes against CH and IL.]] We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD in the parts in which Article 5 is deleted. it's 6. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 7 ( 2 ) is deleted. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall then vote on Amendment No 5 to the part in which it replaces Article 7 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against IL and the NAP and the abstention from CH.]] It was as follows: 2 — The registration number of the local accommodation establishment, located in containment areas pursuant to Article 15. o -A, is personal and non-transmissible, although in the ownership or property of a collective person.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u445	We turn to the vote on draft Amendment No 5, which replaces Article 7 ( 3 ( b ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes in favour of the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] It was as follows: (b) the transfer of the share capital of the legal person holding the registration, whether or not accumulated, to a percentage greater than 50 / prct.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u446	We proceed with the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, which replaces Article 7 ( 4 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: 4 — Paragraph 3 shall not apply in the event of a succession.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u447	We are now voting on Amendment No 5 to the part in which it replaces Article 7 ( 4 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] It was as follows: 4 — Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall not apply in the event of : (a) succession; (b) free transmission of the associated property for spouse or de facto unit, descendants and ascendants; (c) divorce, legal separation of persons and property or dissolution of the de facto union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u448	We shall then vote on Amendment 5 to the Liberal Initiative, in so far as paragraph 5 is added to Article 7. o Decree-Law No 128 / 2014. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: 5 — For the purposes of the previous paragraph, the holders of the authorisation after any of these facts has occurred shall submit the information set out in points (b), (c) and (g) of paragraph 1 and the documents referred to in points (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding Article, insofar as it applies to the particular case, accompanied by a proof of the relevant fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u449	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, in the part in which Article 9 ( 2 ) is deleted. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote on proposal 5, tabled by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 9 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and with abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 2 — In the case of the local housing activity being carried out in an autonomous fraction of the building or part of an urban building capable of independent use, the assembly of condominiums, by reasoned deliberation resulting from the repeated and proven practice of acts which disturb the normal use of the building, as well as acts which cause discomfort and affect the rest of condominiums, of at least two thirds of the perimeter of the building, may oppose the exercise of the local housing activity in the said fraction, unless the constituent title expressly provides for the use of the fraction for the purpose of local housing or for express decision of the assembly of condominiums to authorize the use of the fraction for that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u450	We now vote on proposal 5, tabled by the IL, in the part in which Article 9 ( 3 ) is deleted. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstention from the NAP.]] We now have the vote on proposal 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 9 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: 3 — Once the deliberations of the condominium assembly have been received, in accordance with the provisions of the previous paragraph, the President of the territorially competent Municipal Chamber may adopt mediation solutions to resolve conflicts between holders of local accommodation and condominiums if they do not oppose them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u451	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 5, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 9 ( renumbered as Article 9 ( 4 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and with votes in favour of IL.]] It was as follows: 4 — The cancellation of the register determines the immediate termination of the holding of the establishment, without prejudice to the right of prior hearing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u452	The vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, shall follow in the parts in which Article 9(4) and (5) is deleted. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We now have the vote on proposal 5, tabled by the IL, in the part where a new paragraph 5 is added to Article 9. o Decree-Law No 128 / 2014. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE and L were rejected and votes against IL and PAN.]] It was as follows: 5 — If the application for cancellation of registration is approved, the President of the territorially competent Municipal Chamber, or the councillor responsible for this purpose, shall inform the holder of the registration, giving a period of up to six months for the production of effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u453	We turn to the vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 9 ( 7 ) is deleted. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote on proposal 5, submitted by the IL, shall follow in the part in which it replaces Article 9 ( 7 ( b ) ( renumbered as Article 9 ( 8 ) ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE and L were rejected and votes against IL and PAN.]] It was as follows: (b) — where cancellation under paragraph 2 is concerned, the impossibility of the property concerned shall be exploited as a local accommodation, irrespective of its entity, until a decision contrary to the condominium assembly, with mandatory assessment one year after the cancellation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u454	We then have the vote on proposal 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 9 ( 11 ) is added. the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the BE and the L, votes against the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions from the IL and the CFP.]] It was as follows: 11 — The President of the territorially competent Municipal Chamber, following a decision adopted by the condominium assembly, by the majority of the permilage of the building, of which it turns out that the noise caused by guests is the main cause of the opposition to the maintenance of the local housing activity, may oblige holders of the local accommodation establishments, temporarily or definitively, to install in their establishments a noise level monitoring system and/or have a permanent telephone number for claims and emergencies accessible for use by the other condoms and by the administration of the condominium.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u455	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 7 submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 21 ( 1 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and PAN were rejected, votes against IL, PCP and BE and L abstention.]] It was as follows: 1 — It is for ASAE to monitor compliance with this Decree by also competing with ASAE to investigate its proceedings and apply its fines and ancillary penalties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u456	We now vote on proposal 7 by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 21 ( 5 ). the Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PAN were rejected and votes against CH, IL, PCP, BE and L.]] It was as follows: 5 — Ending the period laid down in accordance with the previous paragraph without the establishment having initiated the authorisation procedure for use for tourism purposes, Tourism of Portugal, IP, informs ASEE and the territorially competent municipal chamber and AT.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u457	We moved on to Article 18. we now vote on proposal 2, tabled by the Czech Republic, in the part in which Article 18 is deleted. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on the proposal to delete Article 18. the, presented by the PSD, is thus impaired. We shall then proceed to the vote on proposal 5, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 6 (1). o -A of Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, consistent with the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 1 — The register of establishment of local accommodation is 15 years old, renewable for the same periods.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u458	We vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 6 ( 2 ). o -A of Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, consistent with the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against IL and L.]] It was as follows: 2 — The first renewal shall be counted from the date of the previous notification provided for in the preceding Article.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u459	We shall now vote on proposal 5, tabled by the IL, in the parts in which it replaces Article 6 ( 3 ). o -A, add a paragraph 4 to Article 6. o -A and add a paragraph 5 to Article 6. o -A of Decree-Law No 128 / 2014, consistent with the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: 3 — The opposition to the renewal of the register lacks express decision of the President of the territorially competent municipal chamber, with the possibility of delegation and sub-delegation, within the time limit defined in municipal regulation, not more than 30 days, and may be based on the requirements for the operation of the establishments. 4 — ( NOVO) In opposition to the renewal of the registration by the City Council, the registrant shall have a 30-day period for regularising the divergences, subject to the death penalty of the City Council, which shall not exceed one year. 5 — (NEW) Except as provided for in paragraph 1, local accommodation establishments which constitute a real guarantee of mutual contracts, which have not yet been fully liquidated and whose first re-evaluation takes place only after full depreciation, initially contracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u460	We turn to Article 19. and we started by voting on proposal 2, submitted by the Arrival, in the part in which Article 19 is deleted. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] Consequently, the vote on the proposals for the elimination of Article 19. the submitted by the PSD and the IL. We move forward to Article 20. we voted on proposal 2, tabled by the Czech Republic, in the part in which Article 20 is deleted. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on the proposals submitted by the PSD and the IL will therefore be detrimental to the elimination of Article 20. o We turn to Article 21. this is followed by the vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 21 is deleted. o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We voted for proposal 5, submitted by the IL, to the part in which it replaces Article 21 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 1 — Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, holders of the local housing register shall be required to demonstrate by presentation of a contribution declaration the maintenance of the holding activity by communicating exercise effectiveness on the NAL platform — National Register of Local Housing, through the Single Electronic Balcony provided for in Article 6. the Decree-Law No. 92 / 2010, of 26 July, in its current wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u461	Article 22 is hereby followed. and we started by voting on proposal 2, submitted by the Arrival, in the part in which Article 22 is deleted. o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] The vote on the proposal submitted by the IL shall be adversely affected in the same way. We thus move on to Article 23. the vote on proposal 2, submitted by the Czech Republic, in the part in which Article 23 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L and votes against CH, IL and PAN were rejected.]] In this way, the vote on the proposal submitted by the IL in the same way is adversely affected. We moved on to Article 24. the, starting with the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which Article 108 is deleted. o-C of the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime, contained in the decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 6, also put forward by the IL, in the part in which it replaces item 2.27 of list I annexed to the VAT Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and BE, votes in favour of the PSD, CH and IL and abstentions from the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] It was as follows: 2.27 — works for the benefit of, remodeling, renovation, restoration, repair, preservation or reconstruction of buildings or autonomous parts of these dwellings, except those on real estate that cover the whole or part of the constituent elements of swimming pools, saunas, tennis courts, golf course or minigolfe or similar facilities. The reduced rate shall not cover the materials incorporated unless the value of the product does not exceed 40 % of the overall value of the provision of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u462	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the parts in which it replaces item 2.37 of list I and adds item 2.42 to list I annexed to the VAT code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: 2.37 — Delivery and installation of solar thermal and photovoltaic panels, including self-consumption kits for housing purposes. [...] 2.42 — Services services aimed at water efficiency through the replacement of water-use devices in housing by other more efficient ones, the installation of solutions to enable the monitoring and intelligent control of water consumption or the installation of rainwater-use systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u463	We also have the vote on proposal 6, tabled by the IL, where Article 26 is added. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 26. o -A ( New) Add to list I annexed to the Value Added Tax Code The following words are added to list I annexed to the VAT code : « 2. 42 — Construction of buildings or autonomous parts of these housing conditions. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u464	Article 27 is hereby followed. this and we begin by voting on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it deletes Article 10 ( 5 ( f ). that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] We now have the vote on proposal 6 by the IL in the part in which it replaces Article 72 ( 2 ). that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L and votes against CH, IL and PAN were rejected.]] It was as follows: 2 — Real estate income arising from housing leases, including those referred to in Article 8 ( 5 ( b ). the, are taxed at an autonomous rate of 14, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u465	We now vote on proposal 6 by the IL in the parts in which it replaces Article 72 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ). that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD were rejected.]] It was as follows: 3 — a reduction of 5 percentage points shall be applied to the real estate income arising from permanent housing leases lasting 5 years or more and less than 10 years at their respective autonomous rate, and a reduction of 1 percentage point shall be applied for each renewal of the contract subject to the limit of 5 percentage points. 4 — a reduction of 10 percentage points shall be applied in the respective autonomous rate to the real estate income of permanent housing contracts of 10 years or more and less than 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u466	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 72 ( 5 ). that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the IL, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 5 — A reduction of 20 percentage points of the respective autonomous rate shall be applied: (a) ad hoc income arising from permanent housing contracts lasting 20 years or more, as well as ad hoc income arising from real permanent housing contracts (DHD) in respect of the part relating to the payment of the monthly cash benefit; (b) ad hoc income arising from lease contracts for higher education students at a cost below the average of the area where the property is located, in respect of the payment of the monthly cash benefit and in accordance with the terms set by the members of the Government responsible for finance and higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u467	We now vote on proposal 6 submitted by the IL to the part in which it replaces Article 72 ( 5 ). that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: 5 — real estate income arising from permanent housing leases of 20 years or more and from real estate leases of long-term housing law, in part concerning payment of monthly cash benefit, shall be applied by a reduction of 14 percentage points of the respective autonomous rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u468	We now vote on proposal 6 by the IL in the part in which it replaces Article 72 ( 7 ). the IRS Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PS and the CH.]] It was as follows: 7 — In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, for tax purposes, the positive difference between the income obtained and those made available by the taxable person shall be considered, when both contracts are registered at the Finance Portal of the Tax and Customs Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u469	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 7 submitted by the CFP in the parts in which it replaces Article 72 ( 10 ) and ( 12 ). the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: 10 — (Repeat). [...] 12 — ( Revoked).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u470	We turn to the vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 72 ( 23 ) is deleted. that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, shall follow in the part in which Article 72 ( 24 ) is deleted. that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and L were rejected and votes against CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN.]] The vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, shall be detrimental to the part in which Article 72 ( 24 ) is deleted. that of the IRS Code, contained in the decree. We now vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 )( a ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the NAP and the L and abstentions from the CH, the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: (a) with the importance, net of official allowances or shares, supported as income by the urban building renter or its autonomous fraction for permanent housing purposes, when referring to lease contracts concluded under the Urban Rent Scheme, approved by Decree-Law No 321 - B / 90 of 15 October, or the New Urban Rent Scheme, approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, or with real long-term housing law contracts in the year in which such amounts are taxable as income from the owner, up to the limit of EUR 507, 12 ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u471	We proceed with the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ) ( a ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: (a) with the importance, net of official allowances or shares, supported as income by the urban building renter or its autonomous fraction for permanent housing purposes, when referring to lease contracts concluded under the Urban Rent Scheme, approved by Decree-Law No 321 - B / 90 of 15 October, or by the New Urban Rent Scheme, approved by Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, or with real long-term housing law contracts, in the year in which such amounts are taxable as income from the owner, up to the limit of € 1800 ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u472	We shall now vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ( b ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: (b) with interest in debts, by contracts concluded until 31 December 2011, contracted with the acquisition, construction or benefit of real estate for own and permanent housing or duly proven leased for permanent housing of the leaser, up to the limit of €445 ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u473	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part where it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ( b ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: (b) with interest on debts incurred with the acquisition, construction or benefit of real estate for own and permanent housing or duly proven leased for permanent housing of the tenant, up to the limit of €900 ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u474	We shall then vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ( c ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: (c) with benefits due as a result of contracts concluded until 31 December 2011 with housing cooperatives or under the group purchasing scheme, for the purchase of real estate intended for own and permanent housing or leased for permanent housing of the tenant, duly proven, in respect of the interest of the corresponding debts, up to the limit of €445;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u475	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ) ( c ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: (c) with benefits due as a result of contracts concluded with housing cooperatives or under the group purchasing scheme, for the purchase of real estate intended for own and permanent housing or leased for permanent housing of the leaser, duly proven, in respect of the interest of the corresponding debts, up to the limit of €900;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u476	We now vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ( d ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: (d) with amounts paid in respect of income from a financial lease contract concluded until 31 December 2011 on real estate for own and permanent housing carried out under this scheme, in the part which does not constitute capital amortisation, up to the limit of €445.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u477	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 6 submitted by the IL in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ( d ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: (d) with amounts paid in respect of income from leased financial assets for own and permanent housing under this scheme, in the part which does not constitute capital amortisation, up to the limit of €900.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u478	We proceed with the vote on proposal 2, tabled by the Czech Republic, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 1 ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: 1 — The collection of IRS by taxable taxable persons shall be deductable for the collection of IRS due to taxable subject subject subject subject subject subject to taxable subject subject subject subject subject subject subject to the IRS collection limit is deductible in the amount of 20 % of the value incurred by any member of the family member: (a) with the importance, net of official allowances or dividends, incurred in respect of income by the urban property leaser's leased leased leased leased leased leased leased leased by the urban property leased leased leased leased leased by the urban building leased real leased leased leased by any member of any member of the householdd householdd householdd aggregated by any member of the family member: (a) with the importance of the Leased holding held in the year approved by Decree of the Law Law of Law of Law No. 321able interest in the principal income of the holding holding of the holding of the holding held in holding of the holding of the holding held in holding of the year, in the year in respect of the year in respect of the year in respect, in respect, in respect of the holding of the holding of the holding of the holding of the holding of the holding of the holding of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u479	We shall vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 4 ) ( a ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the PAN and abstentions to the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] It was as follows: ( a) for taxpayers who have a collectable income equal to or below the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ). o, an amount of €808, €16 ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u480	We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 4 ) ( a ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: ( a) for taxpayers who have a collectable income equal to or below the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ). o, an amount of €3600 ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u481	We shall then vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 4 ( b ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the PAN and abstentions to the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] It was as follows: ( b) for taxpayers who have a taxable income greater than the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ). the same or less than €30 000, the limit resulting from the application of the following formula: €507, €12 +[ €808, €16-507, €12) x [ ( €30 000- Collective income) / ( €30 000- value of the first step ) ].
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u482	We shall now vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 78 ( 4 ( b ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] It was as follows: ( b) for taxpayers who have a taxable income greater than the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ). the same or less than €30 000, the limit resulting from the application of the following formula: €800 +[ €3600 - €800 ) x [ ( €30 000- Collective income) / ( €30 000- value of the first step) ].
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u483	We shall now vote on proposal 2, submitted by the Czech Republic, in the parts in which it replaces Article 78 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ). o-E of the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the PS, IL and the CFP.]] It was as follows: 4 — Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the limit on the deduction to collection provided for there shall be raised to EUR 800 for taxpayers who have a taxable income equal to or below the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ). the, being the taxable income in the case of joint taxation, resulting from the application of the dividend provided for in Article 69. the 5 — Revoked.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u484	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 7 submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 81(4) and (5). the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: 4 — [Repeat]. 5 — [Repeat].
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u485	We turn to the vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 81 ( 7 ). the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS and the CH and votes against the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: 7 — [Repeat].
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u486	We proceed with the vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the parts in which Article 81 ( 8 ) is replaced. Article 99 ( 8 ). Article 101 (1) ( d ) and ( d ). the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 81. the [... ] 8 — [ Revoked] Article 99. the [... ] 8 — In the case of monthly remuneration paid or made available to non-standard residents in Portuguese territory, in the case of category A income taken in activities of high value added, as a scientific, artistic or technical character, defined at the door of the member of the government responsible for the financial area, the rates laid down for residents shall apply. Article 101. the [... ] (d) the rates applicable to income taken by residents, which are incomes of category B resulting from activities of high value added, as a scientific, artistic or technical character, defined at the door of the member of the Government responsible for the area of finance, by non-standard residents in Portuguese territory;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u487	We then vote on Amendment 2, tabled by the Czech Republic, in the part in which we add Article 27. o -A. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the PS and the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 27. Article 11 is added to the IMI Code. o-B, with the following wordings: « Article 11. o-B Temporary exemption from the payment of the IMI for own and permanent housing during the period of application of the PRR shall be exempt from municipal property tax on permanent property property whose taxable property value does not exceed €250 000; buildings intended for student housing and those not concerned with permanent own housing are found on the lease market at affordable price. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u488	We turn to Article 28. in respect of which I put to the vote proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which I replace Article 22 ( 3 ). the EBF ( Statute for Tax Benefits ). [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE, votes against the PAN and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: 3 — For the purposes of determining the taxable profit, the income referred to in Articles 5 shall not be considered. o, 8. a and 10. that of the IRS Code, except where such income comes from entities with residence or residence in a country, territory or region subject to a clearly more favourable tax regime listed by the member of the Government responsible for the area of finance, the expenses linked to those incomes or provided for in Article 23. the -A of the IRC Code, as well as income, including discounts, and expenditure relating to management commissions and other commissions returning to the entities referred to in paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u489	We now vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which it replaces Article 22 ( 6 ). The EBF. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 6 — The entities referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of real estate investment funds and real estate investment companies, shall be free of municipal effusion and state effusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u490	We shall vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part where paragraph 17 is added to Article 22. The EBF. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE, votes against the PAN and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: [ NEW] 17 — The tax benefits referred to in the above figures apply only to real estate funds and investment firms which affect at least 30 % of the fractions of their real estate assets to the Rent Support Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u491	The vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, follows in the part in which Article 46 is deleted. that of the EBF, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and L and BE abstained.]] We then vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part where paragraph 14 is added to Article 46. The EBF. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE, votes against the PAN and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: [ NEW] 14 — The added value resulting from the sale of residential property to the State, the Autonomous Regions or local authorities is only considered, for tax purposes, in part exceeding €25 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u492	We proceed with the vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the parts in which it replaces Article 71 ( 23 ) and ( 24 ). The EBF. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the NAP and L.]] It was as follows: 23 — (Repeat). 24 — (Repeat).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u493	We move on to Article 29. the, for which we have to vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 29 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 6 submitted by the IL in the parts in which Article 45 is replaced. Article 71 (a ) and ( 1 ). -A of the EBF, consistent with the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD were rejected.]] It was as follows: Article 45 o -Incentives for the construction of buildings for housing leases 1 — There are municipal tax exemptions on the onerous transfers of real estate real estate the acquisitions of real estate intended for the construction of buildings which cumulatively fill the following requirements: (a) at least 800 / 1000 of buildings on horizontal property, or at least 8 in every 10 buildings on total property or autonomous fractions, are leased for housing purposes irrespective of the promoter; (b) ( NOVO) The incomes of the lease contracts of at least 75 % of the buildings or autonomous fractions for housing purposes are inserted within the general limits of income per type according to the municipality where the property is located, provided for in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex I to Portaria No 176 / 2019 of 6 June; (c) the construction procedure results in at least 8 dwellings; the legal regime of urbanization and construction, approved by Decree-Law No 555 / 99 of 16 December, in its current wording, of buildings with housing affect is initiated with the competent authority within two years after obtaining the work alvará. 2 — urban buildings or autonomous fractions acquired, rehabilitated or constructed which meet the requirements set out in points (a), (b) and (c) set out in the above paragraph shall apply to: (a) Exemption from municipal property tax; (b) Municipal tax exemption on onerous transfer of real estate; (c) Exemption from taxation in IRS and IRC for the duration of their contracts, the income obtained; (d) Exemption from taxes in IRS and IRC on income from the onerous alienation of real estate. 3 — The exemptions provided for in the preceding paragraphs shall not apply if: (a) the property is given a destination other than that in which it has settled the benefit; or (b) the property is disposed of without meeting the requirements set out in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1. 4 — For the purposes of point (a) of the previous paragraph, it is considered that the property shall retain its assignment under paragraph 1 (b), if, in the event of termination of the lease contract, a new contract is concluded within three months, fulfilling the same requirements. 5 — (NEW) The benefits referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 (a) shall not prejudice the settlement and collection of their taxes, in general terms. 6 — (NEW) The cancellation of municipal property tax and municipal tax settlements on onerous shipments of buildings and the corresponding refunds shall be effected by the finance service within a maximum of 15 days from the notification of compliance with the requirements. 7 — (NEW) The procedures for obtaining benefits, as well as the elements and documents necessary to formalise the obtaining of benefits in a way dematerialized by the candidates, are regulated in the portal. 8 — [ Remove] 9 — [ Remove] Article 71. -A[... ] 1 — Benefit from the incentive provided for in the following paragraph the real estate investment funds and real estate investment companies operating in accordance with national law, provided that: (a) at least 75 % of their assets are immovable property related to housing leases and their residential incomes are inserted within the general income limits per type according to the municipality where the property is located, as set out in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex I to Portaria No 176 / 2019 of 6 June; (b) manage at least 8 dwellings simultaneously.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u494	We now vote on proposal 6, tabled by the IL, in the part in which it replaces Article 71 ( 3 ). -A of the EBF, consistent with the decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PS and the CH.]] It was as follows: 3 — They shall be exempt from taxation in IRS and IRC, for the duration of their contracts, the real estate income obtained under the housing lease as defined in paragraph 1 of this Article.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u495	We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which Article 71 ( 4 ) is deleted. -A of the EBF, consistent with the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and L were rejected, votes against the PS, IL, the CFP and the NAP and the abstention from the CH.]] The vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, shall follow in the parts in which a new paragraph 5 is added and shall replace Article 71 ( 6 ) ( renumbered as Article 71 ( 7 ). -A of the EBF, consistent with the decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 5 — ( NEW) The buildings meeting the criteria set out in paragraph 1 shall be exempt from Municipal Property Tax for a period of at least 9 months of the fiscal year concerned. [...] 7 — The exemption provided for in paragraph 3 shall depend on recognition by the finance service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u496	We now vote on proposal 6 by the IL in the part in which it deletes paragraph 7 ( renumbered as Article 71 ( 8 ). -A of the EBF, consistent with the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, CH, BE and L were rejected, votes against IL, PCP and PANe on the abstention of the PSD.]] We continue with the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in which paragraph 8 ( renumbered as Article 71 ( 9 ) is deleted. -A of the EBF, consistent with the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, CH, BE and L were rejected, votes against IL, PCP and PANe on the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed to Article 30. with the vote on proposal 6 submitted by the IL in the parts in which Article 7 (1) ( l) and ( y ) are replaced. that of the Code of Seal Tax, contained in the decree. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: (l) loans, interest, commissions and other charges charged for the acquisition, construction, reconstruction or improvement of housing, including costs with mediation and promotion of real estate; [...] ( y ) lease contracts for housing purposes;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u497	Next we turn to Article 31. and we shall vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the parts in which a point ( f ) is added to paragraph 1, replace paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 6 and the promemo of Article 9 ( 7 ). the IMI Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: ( f ) of 2. the following year, including the one in which a classified building for housing has been entered in the inventory of an undertaking which is intended for sale. 2 — In the situations provided for in points (d), (e) and (f) of the previous paragraph, if the building is given different use, the tax is paid throughout the period since its acquisition. 3 — In the situation provided for in paragraph 1 (e) and (f), the tax is still due from the year, including where the sale of the building has been de facto delayed to the taxable person. 4 — For the purposes of points (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1, taxable persons shall communicate to the finance service in the area of the building situation within 60 days of verification of the determining fact of their application, the allocation of the buildings to those purposes. [... ] 6 — Do not enjoy the scheme provided for in points (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1 any taxable person who has acquired the building from which he has already benefited. 7 — The provisions of points (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1 shall not apply to taxable persons who: [...]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u498	We continue with the vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 ( 3 ) is deleted. that of the IMI Code, contained in the decree. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on the IL proposal is thus detrimental to the same effect. We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the parts in which it replaces paragraph 3 and adds paragraph 8 to Article 93. that of the IMI Code and in which it replaces Article 112 ( b ) and ( c ). the same code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD were rejected.]] It was as follows: Article 93. the [... ] 3 — The filling of the chairs is responsible for the service that organizes their matrices. [...] 8 — ( NOVO) Interested persons may request access to the buildings of the Public Administration from any local peripheral service. 112. o [... ] b) ( Revoked. ) (c) Urban buildings — from 0 % to 0, 45 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u499	We shall proceed immediately to the vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which it replaces Article 112 ( 8 ). the same code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: 8 — By deliberation of the municipal assembly, municipalities may increase the rate applicable to degraded urban buildings by up to 50 %, considering such as those which, in the face of their state of conservation, do not fulfil their function satisfactorily or endanger the safety of persons and goods, except when caused by natural disaster or disaster.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u500	We then proceed to the vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 112 ( 1 ) is deleted. o -A of the IMI Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]] We continue with the vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 135 ( 2 ) is deleted. o-B of the IMI Code, contained in the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PCP and the BE and the L abstention.]] We turn to Article 32. we then vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 32 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD and the L.]] We turn to Article 33. we continue with the vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 33 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the PAN were rejected, votes against IL, the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD and the L.]] We are now moving forward with the vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which we add Article 33. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions of the PSD, CH and PCP.]] It was as follows: [ NEW] Article 33. o -The Amendment to the Military Infrastructure Act Article 1 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ). Article 4 ( 2 ). Article 15 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). the Organic Law No 2 / 2023, of 18 August, is replaced by the following: « Article 1. the [... ] 1 — This Act establishes the programming of the investment for the conservation, maintenance, security, environmental sustainability, modernization and construction of infrastructures of the fixed component of the force system and establishes the provisions on the inventory, management and recovery of immovable property affected by national defence made available for profitability, requalification and conversion, with a view to the application of the results obtained in the measures and projects envisaged therein. [... ] 3 — Buildings to be valued, re-qualified, re-converted and profitable under this Act, in respect of the strategic guidelines on the integrated management of public real estate, shall be the subject of the Prime Minister's order, in the hearing of the members of the Government responsible for the areas of national defence and the management of public real estate. [...] Article 4. the [... ] 2 — The list of projects shall be accompanied by their project sheets, containing the scope of the intervention, the financial programming of the project and a summary description of the investment at the level of conservation, maintenance, security, modernization, requalification, conversion and infrastructure building. [... ] Article 15. the [... ] 2 — With the exception of private uses, permutation and allocation to collective investment agencies, municipalities shall enjoy, in accordance with the law, a right of preference in all forms of profitability provided for in Article 12. the, as well as the requalification and conversion provided for in Article 7. o -A, for buildings located in the respective municipality. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u501	We are now moving forward with the vote on proposal 10, submitted by the Freeman, in the part in which we add Article 33. o-B. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] It was as follows: [ NEW] Article 33. o-B Adding to the Military Infrastructure Act Article 7 is added. o -A to Organic Law No 2 / 2023, of 18 August, with the following wording: « Article 7. o -Requalification and conversion of buildings affected by national defence 1 — Without prejudice to Article 12. the property affected by national defence within the meaning of this law, which is in accordance with Article 5. (i) social or housing responses for persons benefiting from international protection; (j) social or housing responses for persons without shelter; (k ) social or housing responses for persons living in situations without shelter; and (k ) social or housing responses for persons suffering from domestic violence and gender violence; (i) social or housing responses for persons benefiting from international protection; 2 — The assessment referred to in the previous paragraph shall take account of the survey of the social and housing needs of the municipality where the property is located and the properties identified may be subject to: (a) transfer of use for public interest or lease purposes as provided for in Articles 53. a 66. ( b) integration into the public housing stock market through the special integration procedure provided for in Article 10. the Decree-Law No 82 / 2020, of 2 October, in its current wording. 3 — The retraining and retraining of buildings affected by national defence in accordance with this Article shall include obligations for the assignee or tenant relating to compliance with the principles of energy efficiency and ecological transition in accordance with the European Ecological Pact. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u502	We turn to Article 34. we move forward with the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which Article 34 is deleted. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We are now moving forward with the vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 34 ( 1 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CH, votes in favour of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] It was as follows: 1 — The initial income of the new rental contracts for housing purposes affecting buildings for which lease contracts have been entered into during the five years preceding the entry into force of this Law may not exceed the value of the last income on the same property in the previous contract, applied the coefficient of 1, 0043.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u503	We shall immediately continue with the vote on proposal 7 by the CFP in the parts in which it replaces Article 34 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the PAN, votes against the CFP, the BE and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: 2 — Where the buildings covered by the above number have had more than one lease in the five years preceding the date of the last income, without proven requalification and improvement of the property, the coefficient shall be applied on the value of the lowest income in that period. 3 — In cases where there has not been a previous lease a ceiling on the income value corresponding to the application of the coefficient of 1, 0043 to the value of the median income of the respective statistical subsection shall be set according to the latest update published by the National Institute of Statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u504	We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which Article 34 is added. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the CH, the PCP, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the PSD and BE.]] It was as follows: Article 34. o -The Amendment to the Civil Procedure Code Article 737. the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June in its current wording, is replaced by the following: « Article 737. the [... ] 4 — Between 15 October 2023 and 31 June 2024, is free from the execution of the penhora the mortgaged property and for the purpose of permanent housing of the executed for the satisfaction of the real guarantee of mortgage claims, unless the executed indicate it for the penalty or there is a donation in compliance and without prejudice to other measures replacing the mortgage execution. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u505	We turn to Article 35. this is followed by the vote on proposal 6, submitted by the IL, in the part in which Article 35 is deleted. o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We now move forward with the vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 35 ( 2 ) is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]] Next, we shall vote on proposal 3, tabled by the Block on the Left, for the addition of Article 35. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 35. (c) energy certification; (d) location; (e) median value of income per m2 of new family rental contracts, according to the latest updated National Institute of Statistics, I.P........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (INE, I.P.) ; f ) Typology. 2 — The values defined in the above paragraph may not exceed those provided for in Guideline No 277 -A / 2010 of 21 May. 3 — The new leases of a part of the housing have as a monthly income limit value defined by the government members' portfolio, taking into account, inter alia, the following factors: (a) the reference value of the rent price of the housing where the accommodation is inserted; (b) the room area which must have a useful area of more than 6 m2 and is equipped with natural lighting and ventilation through a window, glass door or veranda framed in direct contact with the outside; and (c) the quality of the room. 4 — Renewal of lease contracts shall have the monthly income limit as defined in paragraphs 1 to 3 as applicable. 5 — The conclusion of new lease contracts in leased buildings which have been terminated for less than 6 months and which have not been the subject of profiting works are limited to the value of the income of the previous contract, or to the limits set out in paragraph 1 below. 6 — The conclusion of new lease contracts for a part of the lease leased by a contract terminated less than 6 months ago and which has not been the subject of profiting works are limited to the value of the previous contract's income, or to the limits set out in paragraph 3 below.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u506	Let us vote on proposal 7, submitted by the CFP, in the parts in which Article 35 is added. o -A, Article 35. o-B and a Article 35. o-C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 35. o -A[NOVO] Limitation to redundancies due to non-payment of income 1 — Dispatch of the tenant is not permitted: (a) where there is no income sufficient to ensure its subsistence or family aggregate; and (b) where it is possible for the tenant to pay at least two thirds of the amount of income. 2 — In the situation referred to in point (b) of the previous paragraph, the remaining debt is recognised as a receivable due and may be payable in accordance with legally admissible terms. Article 35. o-B [NOVO] Limitation of the possibility of non-renewal of lease contracts 1 — Disclaimer of the lease contract is not permitted: 2 — For the purposes provided for in this Article, the “exhaust rate” is considered to be the ratio between the income borne by the tenant and the monthly net income of his family aggregate. 3 — The yields relevant to the calculation of the effort rate are those existing at the relevant date for the purposes of the complaint and are determined by the average of the yields obtained in the previous six months. Article 35. o-C [ NEW] Stability in Urban Rent 1 — to lease contracts concluded until the entry into force of Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, irrespective of the age or income of tenants, and which are still in binding or perpetuity, do not apply the rules of the New Urban Rent Scheme ( NRAU). 2 — Article 1094 is amended. the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November, in its current wording, which is replaced by the following: « Article 1094. the types of contracts [... ] 3 — The duration of the contracts referred to in the preceding paragraphs may, however, not be less than 10 years without prejudice to the possibility of complaint by the tenant. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u507	We move on to Article 36. we now have to vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 14 ( 5 ) is deleted. the New Urban Rent Regime, consistent with the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] The vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, shall follow, in the part in which it replaces Article 14 ( 2 ). -The New Urban Rent Regime. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: 2 — The lease contract, where accompanied by the proof of notification to the guarantor of the amount owed by the tenant, is an executive title for the payment of the right amount to be imposed against the guarantor, corresponding to the securities guaranteed by the loan.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u508	We then vote on proposal 7 by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 15. The New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o [... ] ( Revoked).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u509	We now move forward to the vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 15. -The New Urban Rent Regime. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o -The National Lease Balcony 1 - The National Lease Balcony is created, with the Directorate-General for the Administration of Justice, the National Lease Balcony (BNA), to ensure the processing of the special clearance procedure and the injunction in relation to lease. 2 — The BNA has jurisdiction throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u510	Next, we have to vote on proposal 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 15. -The New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o -A[...] ( Revoked).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u511	Let us now move forward with the vote on proposal 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 15 is added. o-AA to the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-AA Reinforcement and agility of the National Rent Balcony 1 — Within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Government shall strengthen the staff map of the National Rent Balcony (BNA) in order to provide it with the human resources necessary to improve the response times of the BNA, in particular in the initial phase of analysis of the requirements for refusal of the clearance requirement. 2 — Within 120 days, the Government shall approve and propose the legislation necessary for the reform of the procedures and organisation of the National Rent Balcony and other mechanisms for the resolution of leased disputes in view of their simplification and significant agility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u512	We then vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 15 ( 1 ). o-B of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-B [... ] 1 — The clearance requirement shall be presented in its own model in the BNA. [...]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u513	We then vote on proposal 7 by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 15. o-B of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-B [... ] ( Revoked).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u514	Next, we proceed to the vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part where Article 15 is added. o-BB to the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the PAN and with votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the L.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-BB Promoting the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in leases Within 120 days the Government proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the legislation necessary to promote the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in leases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u515	The vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, shall follow, in the part in which it replaces Article 15 ( 1 )( a ). o-C of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-C [...] a) Not addressed to BNA; [...]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u516	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 7 submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 15 is replaced. o-C of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-C [... ] ( Revoked).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u517	We then vote on proposal 4, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces the draft Article 15 ( 1 ). o-D of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-D [... ] 1 — The BNA shall immediately issue notification to the applicant by registered letter with a notice of receipt for, within 15 days, the following: [...] We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the parts in which it replaces the draft Article 15 ( 1 ). Article 15 ( E ) and Article 15 ( 3 ). O-E of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: 1 — The BNA shall convert the application for lay-off into a title for the occupation of the place if: [... ] 2 — [... ] 3 — Formed by the title of occupation of the place, the BNA shall make available the application for lay-off in which the title formula has been placed for the occupation of the place to the applicant and the executing officer, notary or judicial officer designated, according to the cases, in accordance with the terms laid down by the holder of the Government responsible for the area of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u518	We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, which replaces Article 15. O-E of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-E (Repeat) We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 15 ( 2 ). o-F of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: 2 — The opposition is presented in the BNA by electronic means.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u519	We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, which replaces Article 15. o-F of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-F (Repeat) We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 15 ( 3 ). o-G of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: 3 — In the cases provided for in the previous paragraphs, the BNA shall return at the request of the applicant the file relating to the special clearance procedure and notify the applicant if it has already been notified of the application for release.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u520	We shall now vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 15. o-G of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-G (Repeat)
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u521	We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which it replaces Article 15 ( 1 ). o-H of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: 1 — Deduced from the opposition, the BNA presents the cars to the distribution or makes them concluded, as the case may be, and sends the applicant a copy of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u522	We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the parts in which it replaces Articles 15. o-H, 15. o-I, 15. o-J, 15. o-K, 15. o-M, 15. o-N, 15. o -O, 15. o-P, 15. o-Q, 15. o-R and 15. O-S of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 15. o-H ( Revoked). Article 15. o-I ( Revoked). Article 15. o-J ( Revoked). Article 15. o-K ( Revoked). Article 15. o-M ( Revoked). Article 15. o-N ( Revoked). Article 15. o -O (Repeat). Article 15. o-P ( Revoked). Article 15. o-Q ( Revoked). Article 15. o-R ( Revoked). Article 15. o-S ( Revoked).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u523	Mr President, with regard to the proposal for a replacement of Article 15. o-S the NAP voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u524	Thank you, Mrs Deputy, for not changing the outcome of the vote. We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where paragraph 4 is added to Article 15. O-S of the New Urban Rent Regime. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: 4 — The opposition to the application for clearance is always urgent, including at the time of appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u525	We shall vote on Amendment No 6, tabled by the IL, in the part in which it deletes Articles 35. o is 36. The New Urban Rent Regime. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD and the IL.]] We now vote on Amendment No 6, tabled by the IL, in the part in which it deletes Article 37. The New Urban Rent Regime. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against PS, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L, votes against PS and IL.]] We continue with the vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which we add Article 14 ( 2 ). o-B of the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions by the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 14. o-B [... ] [... ] 2 — Social security services accompanying the clearance procedure shall, until the end of the proceedings, be connected with the court and the executing agent, with the obligation to draw up a report on the social situation of the tenant.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u526	We shall now vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part where paragraph 3 is added to Article 14. o-B and a Article 34. -The New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 14. o-B [... ] [... ] 3 — An exceptional reason for suspension of the clearance process is the conclusion, in the report provided for in the previous paragraph, of the situation of fragility due to lack of housing alternative or other compelling social reason of the tenant. [... ] Article 34. o -A New Contracts In housing leases concluded prior to the validity of the ADR and which have transited to the NRAU, and whose leaser, at the date of the entry into force of this Act, has been resident for more than 20 years in the lease and is 65 years old or older or has proven disability equal to or greater than 60 %, there may be only opposition to the renewal or denunciation by the landlord on the basis provided for in Article 1101 ( b ). the Civil Code, taking place to the ordinary update of income, in general terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u527	We now vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Articles 38 are deleted. o, 39. o and 40. The New Urban Rent Regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 41 is added. o -A. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes in favour of the PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o -The study of changes and impacts observed in the market evolution of lease 1 — Promotes the development of an independent study, with an urgent nature, on the impact on the rental market and on the quantity and quality of available housing and its economic and social accessibility, of successive legislative changes introduced into the urban lease legal regime from 2010 to the present. 2 — The independent study referred to in the previous paragraph shall follow the following guidelines: (a) be carried out by a team of independent experts hired for the purpose by the Assembly of the Republic, approved by the Conference of Leaders by a qualified two-thirds majority; (b) it should be completed by the end of the first half of 2024; (c) it is up to UTAO to define or approve the assumptions under which it will develop.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u528	We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 41 is added. o -A. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: Section 11 - Protection of Own Housing Article 41. o -The special housing protection scheme 1 — The special housing protection scheme is established, addressed to families with housing credit, as provided for in this section. 2 — The Special Housing Protection Scheme shall apply to all mutual contracts concluded under the system of granting housing credit for the purchase, construction or realization of buildings for the preservation and benefit of permanent housing. 3 — The special scheme for the protection of own housing is imperative for borrower credit institutions. 4 — The application of the measures provided for in the Special Housing Protection Scheme does not prejudice the application of conditions more favourable to credit institutions. 5 — The application of the measures provided for in the Special Housing Protection Scheme cannot be invoked as a basis for the application of restrictions, conditions or limitations on access to the credit to which they rely.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u529	We shall vote on Amendment No 10, tabled by the L, in the part in which Article 41 is added. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, CH and the CFP.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o -The Amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September Article 12 ( 1 ), 2, 4 and 5. the Decree-Law No 308 / 2007, of 3 September, in its current wording, is replaced by the following: « Article 12. the [... ] 1 — The financial support of Gate 65 - Youth is granted in the form of non-refundable monthly grant for the period of 24 months and may be renewed in subsequent two-year applications up to the limit of 84 months. 2 — The beneficiary may at any time cease the support granted in accordance with the previous paragraph, without prejudice to the possibility of submitting subsequent applications to complete the period of 24 months, in accordance with the conditions of access and duration of the financial support laid down in this Decree-Law. 3 — [... ] 4 — The grant is allocated in a decreasing way for every 24 months of allocation of financial support. 5 — The steps and the value of the monthly grant for periods of 24 months are defined by the portal. 6 — [... ] »
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u530	We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 41 is added. o-B. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] It was as follows: Section II -A Income allowance Article 41. o-B Transitional income allowance scheme to be allocated to less-income tenants. It is approved in ANNEX II to this Act, of which it is an integral part, the transitional income allowance scheme to be allocated to less-income tenants.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u531	We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the addendum to Article 41. o-B. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o-B Reduction of fees, bank fees and other costs and charges in the face of higher Euribor rates 1 — The increase in the Euribor rates relevant for the purposes of housing credit determines the corresponding reduction, of equal value and proportional to the other costs and charges with credit, so that the value of the Global Effective Annual Rate (TAEG) fixed at the start of the contract is not exceeded. 2 — The identification of the costs and charges provided for in the previous paragraph shall be made from the elements contained in the European Standardised Information Sheet and the mutual contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u532	We shall vote on Amendment No 10, tabled by the L, in the part in which Article 41 is added. o-B. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, IL and PCP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o-B Transitional provision The period referred to in Article 12. the Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September shall apply to applications for access to the program that are formalised for the first time and to the renewals submitted after the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u533	We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 41 is added. o-C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o-C Approval of measures to mitigate the impact of aggravating interest on housing. It is approved in Annex III to this Act, which forms an integral part of the set of measures to mitigate the impact of aggravating interest on housing credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u534	We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 41 is added. o-C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o-C Mediated renegotiation of housing credit 1 — and created a mediated renegotiation process of housing credit. 2 — Mediated renegotiation of housing credit shall be carried out, without the right of opposition by credit institutions: (a) the demand of the borrower when the rate of effort: (i) exceeds 35 %; or (ii) being originally greater than 35 %, increased by at least 2 percentage points (p.p. ) (b) at the initiative of the bank, which is compulsory, where the rate of effort is 50 % or more. 3 The renegotiation provided for in the above numbers shall be mediated in accordance with the following numbers by technical teams to be formed by Banco de Portugal ( BdP ). 4 Mediated renegotiation of the housing credit consists of: (a) the reduction of the amount of benefits corresponding to capital and interest, as defined in the housing credit contract, covering proportionally interest and capital depreciation, up to the amount corresponding to a maximum effort rate of 35 %; (b) the application of this reduction for a period between 6 and 12 months, renewable at the request of the borrower for a maximum period of 24 months; (c) the extension of the maturity of the credit for a period corresponding to the period for which the reduction of benefits is applied, even if it exceeds the limits set by the BdP for banking mutual contracts. 5 — The incomes relevant to the calculation of the rate of effort are those existing at the time of renegotiation of credit conditions and are determined by the average incomes obtained in the previous six months. 6 — The proof of income referred to in the previous paragraph may be made by the respective receipts of maturity or, where there is no such possibility, by other suitable documents, without the requirement for special formalities. 7 — The BP teams shall be responsible for verifying the conditions laid down in this Article. 8 — The deadline for the conclusion of the renegotiation shall be 30 days and the Government shall be responsible for the regulation of its procedure. 9 — The conditions resulting from the renegotiation of the credit shall apply to benefits over 30 days after the period provided for in the previous paragraph.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u535	We shall now vote on Amendment No 10, tabled by the L, in the part in which Article 41 is added. o-C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN and L and abstention from the CFP were rejected.]] We shall vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which I add Articles 41. o-D is 41. o-E. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o-D Capital Moratorium 1 — The borrower's request shall apply a capital moratorium to banking mutual contracts intended for the acquisition of own and permanent housing in accordance with the following numbers. 2 — The capital moratorium referred to in the previous paragraph determines the possibility of non-payment of capital amortisation and only interest, which does not imply the late establishment, early maturity of the contract or contractual default 3 — The interest payment provided for in the previous paragraph is made at a rate corresponding to that which has been used by the European Central Bank in banking financing or that which has been applied to the bank in the interbank market financing operation, depending on which is lower, considering the most recent date of the maturity of the benefit. 4 — The application referred to in paragraph 1 shall be submitted in the form and using the means provided for in the contract for communications between the borrower and the credit institution, with effect from the date of its submission. 5 — The moratorium shall be applied for the period required by the borrower and may not exceed one year in its initial application or more than two years in all renewals. 6 — The renewal of the period of absence is subject to the conditions laid down for the initial application. 7 — The application of the capital moratorium provided for in this Article determines the extension of the maturity of the contract for a period identical to the total duration of the moratorium, even if it exceeds the maximum maturity limits of the banking mutual contracts defined by the Banco de Portugal and cannot constitute a justification for changing the other contractual conditions. Article 41. o-E Contribution in compliance 1 — The settlement in compliance is admitted to the housing credit without the possibility of opposition from the credit institution. 2 — The value to be considered for the purposes of debt amortisation is that of the value of the valuation of the property made when the credit is granted or at the time of the donation, depending on what is highest. 3 — If, after five years of the settlement, it is found that the property was sold in excess of the amount of the relevant valuation at the time of the transaction, the institution of mutual credit shall be obliged to deliver to the borrower the difference between the value in debt at the date of the transaction and that of the highest sale occurring in that period, irrespective of who made that sale. 4 — If, at that time, no sale of the property is found of a higher value, the depreciation made in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be considered. 5 — If, within five years provided for in paragraph 3, the property is not sold by the mutual credit institution, the borrower may request the cancellation of the settlement in compliance, the credit contract shall be resumed from that date under the conditions existing on the date of the assignment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u536	We shall now vote on Amendment 7, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 41 is added. o-F. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 41. o-F Conversion into rent for housing 1 — In the case of a donation in compliance with property that constitutes permanent own housing or a lease of property that constitutes permanent own housing to Real Estate Investment Funds for Housing Rent ( FIIAH ), the borrower or seller has the right to remain in the property as a tenant. ( b) the relevant transmission for the purposes of Article 2 (2). that of Law No 80 / 2014 of 19 December is that referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article; 3 — Within 10 years of the conversion into lease, the tenant may re-acquire the property by the value equivalent to the amount of the capital in debt at the date of the settlement or alienation, deducted from the total value of the meanwhile paid income.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u537	Let us go to Amendment 2, tabled by the CH, in the part in which Article 42 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against PSD and CH were rejected.]] The vote was followed by the vote on Amendment 8 by PSD Deputies Dinis Ramos, Francisco Pimentel, Patrícia Dantas and Sara Madruga da Costa, in the part where he added an article 42. o -A. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 42. o - Chapter V Residence commitments for investment activity Article 42. the residence authorisations for investment activity [... ] Transitional arrangements for autonomous regions 1 — An exceptional and transitional scheme for the admission of new applications for residence authorisation for investment activity in the Autonomous Regions and territories of the interior identified in the Annex to Portaria No 208 / 2017 of 13 July is hereby established, as provided for in Article 90. -A of Law No 23 / 2007 and in accordance with Article 2. the Decree-Law No. 14 / 2021 of 12 February. 2 — The scheme referred to above shall be valid until the end of 2026, without prejudice to its extension under the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u538	We shall vote on Amendment No 2, tabled by the CH, in the part in which Article 43 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against PSD and CH were rejected.]] We shall now vote on the same proposal for Amendment No 2, tabled by the CH, in the part in which Article 44 is deleted. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, IL and L were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstention from the CFP.]] With this vote, the proposal for Amendment No 7 by the CFP, in the part in which Article 44 is deleted. the, is adversely affected, so we continue to vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the NAP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the BE and IL and the L abstentions.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o -The Creation of an exceptional scheme for the provision of devolved or underused buildings It is approved in Annex I to this Act and of which it is an integral part, the exceptional scheme for the provision of devolved or underused buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u539	We shall then vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 is added. o-B and a Article 44. o-C. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-B Amendment to the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime Articles 4. o, 7. o, 44. o, 76. o is 111. the legal regime of urbanization and edification, approved by Decree-Law No 555 / 99 of 16 September, is replaced by the following: Article 4 the 4 — [... ] (b) urbanization works and land renewal works in areas covered by detailed plans with real effects, batch operation or execution units; 1 — [... ] ( g ) Urban operations promoted by public or majority public capital undertakings, by Construction and Housing Cooperatives (CCH) or by private entities with the object of urban operations having at least 50 % of fires or construction areas intended for the construction of accessible housing. [... ] Article 44. the [... ] 6 — The areas of assignment provided for in paragraph 1 may be intended for the construction of housing buildings composed of housing types, provided for in the Local Housing Strategy, in accordance with Decree-Law No 37 / 2018 of 4 June. 7 — Compensation provided for in paragraphs 4 and 5 may be paid through the transfer of buildings for affordable housing purposes in accordance with Article 24 (2). o Law No. 31 / 2014, of May 30. 8 — In the case provided for in the previous paragraph, the transfer shall take effect after approval by the competent municipal assembly of the evaluation report attesting to that operation. Article 64. the [... ] 5 — After the time limit laid down in the previous paragraph has elapsed without having been issued or expressly rejected the target of authorisation for use, the proof of its application pursuant to Article 63. the title is sufficient for the use or the performance of the contracts and registrar relating to the property. Article 76. the [... ] 7 — After the deadline laid down in paragraph 4 has been issued or expressly rejected, the respective building licence shall be initiated. Article 111. the [... ] After the time limits laid down for the practice of any act specially regulated in this diploma without the same being practised, the following shall be observed: (a) In the event of an act to be carried out by the City Council under the licensing procedure, even if it depends on third-party opinions, the person concerned may use the procedure laid down in Article 112. the request for a licence. (b) if the City Council does not issue the licence referred to in the above paragraph within 60 days of its application, the application shall be considered to be tacitly dismissed. (c) For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, in the silence of the Municipal Chamber, the person concerned may initiate the construction work. Article 44. o-C Amendment to Law No 31 / 2014 of 30 May Articles 22. o, 65. is 66. the Law of General Basics of Soil Policy, Land Planning and Urbanism, is replaced by the following: Article 22. the [... ] 6 — Except for the provisions in the previous paragraph where the use is intended for accessible housing. 7 — In the situations described in the preceding paragraphs, the compatibility of housing use is assumed by adopting the rules of the plan relating to neighboring parcels, provided that they have infrastructures equipped to accommodate the additional construction intensity. Article 65. the [... ] Availability of land and buildings to the municipality for the implementation, installation or renovation of infrastructure, equipment, public housing. Article 66. the [... ] c) Contribution with areas for the implementation, installation and renovation of infrastructure, equipment, public housing or controlled costs, green spaces and other spaces of collective use.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u540	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 is added. o-D. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the NAP and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the BE and the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-D Amendment to the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments Articles 72. o, 123. o is 176. the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments, approved by Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May 2015 shall be replaced by the following: « Article 72. the [... ] 1 — [... ] 2 — The reclassification provided for in the previous paragraph may still be based on the implementation of the Local Habitat Strategy, and the reasons for the economic and urban reclassification for which there are no viable alternatives to the construction of affordable urban land housing should be included in the same or in addition. 3 — [ previous paragraph 2 ]. 4 — Except in the cases provided for in paragraph 2 above, the demonstration of the economic and financial sustainability of soil processing shall include the following elements: (a) [ previous paragraph 3 ( a ) ( b ) ( previous paragraph 3 ( b ) ( c ) ( previous paragraph 3 ( c ) ) 5 — The demonstration of the economic and financial sustainability of soil processing under the Local Habitat Strategy is limited to demonstrating the economic and financial and urban viability, justifying the absence of alternatives to urban soil. 6 — Reclassification of soil shall be carried out by means of procedures for drawing up, reviewing or amending detailed plans with real effects, accompanied by the contract provided for in paragraph 3 and in accordance with the regulatory decree establishing the uniform criteria for the classification and reclassification of soil. 7 — [ previous paragraph 5 ] 8 — The reclassification of the soil intended solely for the implementation of infrastructures and equipment for collective use shall comply with the criteria laid down in paragraphs 1 and 4 and shall be carried out through procedures for the preparation, revision or modification of territorial plans, in which the respective deadline for implementation is laid down. 9 — Reclassification of the soil, in the contiguity of urban soil, intended for the installation of activities of an industrial nature, storage or logistics and their support services may be carried out by drawing up, reviewing or modifying the territorial plane, in accordance with the criteria set out in paragraphs 1 to 4, with the respective time limit defined in the territorial plan for the preparation, modification or revision. 10 — [ previous paragraph 8 ] 11 — The modification, by adaptation, of the municipal or inter-municipal master plan shall be carried out only after the deadline laid down in paragraph 7 and provided that the urban operations provided for in the plan have been carried out in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 121. the 12 — Reclassification of the soil in the urban soil contiguity, which is intended to comply with the Local Habitat Strategy, may be carried out through the procedure provided for in Article 123. the, subject to the delimitation of an implementation unit and to the guarantee of the provision of infrastructure and associated services, through the contractualization of urban charges and registration in the implementation program, in the business plans and in the municipal budgets. 13 — [ previous paragraph 10 ] 14 — [ previous paragraph 11 ] Article 123. the [... ] b) Land redefinition, for housing uses, with the possibility of adapting urban indices, through the implementation of an implementation unit, provided that they are framed and justified in the Local Housing Strategy, provided for in Decree-Law No 37 / 2018, of 4 June. [... ] Article 176. the [... ] [... ] 2 — Urban operations which have more than 20 % of the fires or the construction area intended for accessible housing and which are developed within implementing units may benefit from an increase of 15 % of construction area, and may have a higher number of floors than those provided for in the existing territorial plan, if it is the only viable alternative. 3 — [ previous paragraph 2 ] [... ] »
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u541	We continue with the vote on the proposal for amendment 4, the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o-E, a Article 44. o-F and a Article 44. oG. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the NAP were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-E Preservation of Public Responsibilities The procedural amendments and simplification provided for in this Act do not prejudice or diminish the responsibility of public entities with prior and successive control powers, including in cases of prior communication application, tacit deferral and alvará substitution. Article 44. o-F Review of RGEU and related legislation Within 240 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Government approves the revision of the rules applicable to urban buildings, so that the object of Decree-Law No 38382 / 51 of 7 August approving the General Regulation on Urban Buildings ( RGEU ) is in line with the general rules on the urban environment and the basic characteristics of housing types and the general and special conditions which are essential for the preservation of the health and safety of buildings. Article 44. o-G Regulation 1 — It is for the Government, within 90 days of the entry into force of this Act, to adopt a regulatory decree establishing the technical concepts to be used by the municipalities in the preparation of their municipal urbanization and building regulations, as well as the scope of Article 2.2 of this Law, which amends Article 20(2) of the legal regime for urbanization and construction. 2 — Without prejudice to the principle of municipal autonomy, the inter-municipal authorities shall, if necessary, provide the municipalities with the necessary technical support so that, within 180 days of the date of entry into force of the diploma provided for in the previous paragraph, they shall, in a harmonised manner, review the various municipal regulations for the construction and urbanisation and the respective fee schemes. 3 — Without prejudice to the safeguarding of municipal autonomy, municipalities must promote and ensure: (a) the interoperability of computer systems and mechanisms used by the various municipalities for the procedural processing of urban systems and interface with promoters, safeguarding municipal autonomy; (b) the full digitisation of urban processes; (c) Adoption in support of urban decision-making of artificial intelligence, under parametry and human control, and of BIM (Building Information Modeling) technology in open source. 4 — The Government provides, through the financial instruments at its disposal, the investment amounts necessary by intermunicipal entity, for the technological modernisation of the urban control systems of each municipality, complementing the minimum that is the integral digitisation, distance interface and interoperability between the systems of the intervening public entities, and moving forward to adopt in support of the urban decision of artificial intelligence and open source technology. Chapter V-B[New] Tax measures for social intervention to resolve the serious crisis in access to own housing, the increase of charges generated with the rise of interest in housing credit and the promotion of measures that encourage a better impact of returned buildings and the strengthening of confidence between the parties in lease contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u542	We shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o-H. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH and the NAP and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-H Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons Articles 72. o, 78. o is 78. the E of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ( IRS Code), approved in annex to Decree-Law No 2 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, are replaced by the following: « Article 72. 1 — [... ] 2 — Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (e) of the preceding paragraph, income from residential leases shall be taxed at the following autonomous rates: 3 — [ Revoked] 4 — [ Revoked] 5 — [ Revoked] [... ] Article 78. the [... ] [... ] (m) in respect of insurance for non-payment of income, contracted by the holders of income. [...] 6 — Deductions referred to in points ( a ) to ( i ), ( k ) and in point ( m ) of paragraph 1 may only be made: [...] Article 78. (a) (a) with the importance, net of subsidies or official shares, incurred as income for the rent of the urban real estate leaser or its autonomous part of its autonomous portion for permanent housing purposes (......] [...] [...] (a) (a) with the importance, net of allowances or official shares, incurred as income incurred by the urban building leaser or its autonomous part for permanent housing purposes, for the purposes of permanent housing purposes, (a) with regard to leased leased leased leased leased leased contracts concluded under the Urban Land Settlement Scheme, approved by Decree Law Decree Law No. 321 - Law No. 321 - B / 90, of 15 October 15, or of the New Euro, or of its autonomous part of its autonomous residential leased leased residential leased leased residential property, of 27 February 2006, or of 27 February 2006, or of 27 February 2006, or with leasedable property leasedable property leased property property leases ; (c) in respect for the term of ( euro) period of ( euro) period ( euro) period of holding ( euro), 680 ; ; ; ; (c (c (c) (c) (c) (c) up until until the limit to the limit to the limit to the limit to the limit to the limit to the limit limit to ( euro until ( euro until ( euro until ( euro) the limit to ( euro until ( euro) 680 limit to ( EUR) 6 ( EUR) 6 ( EUR) 6 ( EUR) 680 limit limit) 680) 680) 680) 680) 680) 680) 680), 680) ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ( the amount of part on the amount on the amount of part on the part on the amount of part on the amount of part on the amount on the amount on the amount of the part on the part on the part on the amount of; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ( ( d) ; ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( d) ; ( [... ] 5 — [...] ( a) For taxpayers who have a collectable income equal to or below the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ). ( b) for taxpayers who have a taxable income greater than the value of the first step of Article 68 ( 1 ) ; the same or less than € 30 000, the limit resulting from the application of the following formula : € 680 +[ ( € 780 - € 680 ) x[ ( € 30 000 - Income 30 000 - value of the first step ) ] 9 — [... ] »
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u543	Let us now vote on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o-I. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-I Addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons. Article 78 is added to the IRS Code. o-H, as follows: « Article 78. o-H Deduction of income insurance charges are deductible to the collection, up to the limit of € 350 per property, the importance spent with income protection insurance premiums subscribed by income holders. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u544	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 is added. o-J. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-J Add to list I annexed to the Value Added Tax Code. Paragraph 2.23.1 is added to list I annexed to the Added Value Tax Code ( VAT code ), approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December, with the following wording : « 2. 23.1. — Between 2024 and 2030, including that provided for in paragraph 2.23, it also applies to works and services for the construction and rehabilitation of new or state-of-use buildings, and even those located outside such areas. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u545	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, where Article 44 is added. o-K. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] It is as follows: Article 44. o-K Amendment to the Seal Tax Code Article 7. that of the Seal Tax Code, approved in Annex to Law n. the 150 / 99, of 11 September, is replaced by the following : « 1 — [... ] j ) mutuals constituted under the legal arrangement of housing credit up to the amount of the capital in debt when: i. If it is the first acquisition of own and permanent housing of a person, or of persons, who must bear the charge of tax in accordance with Article 3. o ; or ii. they result in a change in the credit institution or subrogation in the mortgage creditor's rights and guarantees in accordance with Article 591. the Civil Code. [...] ’
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u546	We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD in the parts in which Article 44 is added. o-L, a Article 44. o-M and a Article 44. o-N. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u547	Mr President, only to clarify that in the proposal for an addendum to Article 44. o-N, the NAP voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u548	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. It was as follows: Article 44. o-L Amendment to the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate Article 17. that of the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate ( IMT Code ), as annexed to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November 2003 shall be replaced by the following: « Article 17. o 1 — (a) : Value on which IMT affects ( in Euros) Percentage rates Marginal Average* Up to 168 000 0 0 0 Over 168 000 up to 231 000 2 0, 5455 Over 231 000 up to 301 688 5 1, 5892 Over 301 688 up to 603 289 8 — Over 603 289 to 1,050 400 Single rate 6 Over 1,050 400 Single rate 7, 5 ( * ) At the upper limit of the step. Do not keep on seeking. ” Article 44. o-M Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax Articles 112. o 112. o -A and 112. o-B of the Code of Municipal Property Tax ( IMI Code ), approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November 2003 shall be replaced by the following: « Article 112. the [... ] 16 — The identification of the buildings or autonomous fractions returned, the buildings in ruins and the grounds for construction referred to in Article 112. o-B shall be: (a) communicated by the municipalities to the Tax and Customs Authority by electronic data transmission, in accordance with the terms and deadlines referred to in paragraph 14 and disclosed by them on their website, as well as by the municipal bulletin, where it exists; or (b) carried out, also at the initiative of the Tax and Customs Authority, in conjunction with the municipalities, and to that effect conferred on them the competences contained in Articles 4. o is 5. the Decree-Law No 159 / 2006, of 8 August, in its current wording, with the necessary adaptations. [... ] Article 112. o -A c) — [...] Number of dependents in charge Fixed deduction ( in Euros) 1 [ 30 ] 2 [ 70 ] 3 or more [ 140 ] Article 112. o-B [... ] 2 — The revenue obtained by the aggravation provided for in the previous paragraph in which it exceeds the application of Article 112 ( 3 ). the, are : ( a ) attributed to municipalities when the communication of the building occurs in accordance with Article 112 ( a ). the, and affected by these to the financing of municipal housing policies; or b) allocated to the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P. where the communication of the building takes place in accordance with Article 112 ( 16 ( b ). the and affected by this to the lease support allowance. [...] ’ Article 44. o-N Addition to the Statute for Tax Benefits Article 50 is added to the Statute for Tax Benefits, as annexed to Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July. o -A, with the following wording: « Article 50. o -A 1 — Exemption from taxation in respect of income tax on natural persons shall be the income resulting from capital gains calculated in accordance with Article 43 ( 1 ). that of the IRS Code concerning the transmission of real property rights classified as urban buildings when they integrate an inheritance whose sharing has not been carried out until 31 December 2019. 2 — The provisions of this scheme shall apply until 31 December 2024. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u549	We proceed with the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 of the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o -O. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, IL, PCP, BE and L and with votes against PSD, CH and PAN.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o -The Compensation for Loss of Revenue The loss of revenue of the municipalities resulting from changes introduced by this law to articles 9. it's 17. that of the IMT Code, which is not offset by the increase in revenue resulting from the application of the IMI Code rules on the taxation of devolved buildings, shall be compensated by transfers from the State budget, to be added to the forms of participation in public resources provided for in Article 25. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u550	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, where Article 44 is added. o-P. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-P Non-payment of Income Insurance The Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ( ASF ) assesses the existence of disincentives or barriers to the hiring of non-payment of income insurance subscribed by the landlords by the end of 2023, notifying the conclusions of its analysis to the Assembly of the Republic and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u551	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 is added. o-Q. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] It was as follows: Article 44. the Q Annual update of values on which the IMT affects the values on which the IMT relates, as set out in Article 17 ( a ). the IMT Code are updated annually in the State Budget Act and follow the evolution of the average price of housing per square metre, relating to the last quarter of data available and disclosed by the National Institute of Statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u552	We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o-R. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 44. the R Revoking Standard shall be repealed, from 1 January 2024, Article 72 paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. the IRS Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u553	Mrs. Members, let us turn to page 71 of the vote script in which we have to vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where I add articles 44. o-S, 44. o-T, 44. o-U is 44. o-V. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE and the NAP and the IL and L abstentions.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-S Housing protocols 1 — The State, through the Directorate-General for Higher Education, establishes with private housing units, social sector institutions and authorities protocols for the provision of accommodation units at affordable prices for students displaced from higher education. 2 — Accommodation units contracted under the previous number are an integral part of the offer of public access to students displaced from higher education. Article 44. o-T Student accommodation price The prices of the accommodation units contracted under the previous article follow the housing price tables for higher education students in the public network residences. Article 44. o-U Movijovem 1 — The Movijovem — Youth Mobility, Public Interest Cooperative for Limited Liability, holds protocols in accordance with Article 2. the, through which are available lodgings of the Youth Pousadas network. 2 — The measurement of the number of accommodation to be made available in accordance with the previous number is carried out on the basis of the housing needs for students displaced from each higher education institution and the Youth Pousadas de Youth near the facilities of such institutions. Article 44. o-V Duration of housing protocols Protocols established under Article 2. it has a minimum duration of 3 years and can be renewed after this first period of operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u554	We now have to vote on Amendment 4 to the PSD in the parts in which Article 44 is added. o-W and a Article 44. o-X. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH and the NAP and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-W Residences under public-private partnership scheme 1 — The Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education promotes through higher education institutions, the conclusion of public-private partnership contracts for the construction of new residences with promoters and private entities, with the aim of making accommodation available at affordable prices for students of higher education. 2 — Student housing units in public-private housing are an integral part of the offer of public access for students who have moved to higher education. 3 — Student residences held in accordance with this Article may operate on a polyvalence and dual basis, allowing them to be used as tourist accommodation units during the period outside the calendar of the school year. 4 — The financial contributions paid by public entities in respect of public-private partnership residences provided for in this Article shall be calculated by discounting the estimated potential revenue from dual use referred to in the previous paragraph. Article 44. o-X Accommodation price in public-private partnership residences The student housing prices in residences with public-private partnership referred to in the previous article follow the housing price tables for students of higher education in the public-network residences.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u555	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 is added. o-Y. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-Y Monitoring of supply and demand for accommodation 1 — It is up to the Directorate-General for Higher Education to continuously monitor the offer and search for student accommodation in homes with public-private partnership. 2 — Information on monitoring referred to in the previous paragraph shall be made available to the public on the Internet of the Directorate-General for Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u556	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, where Article 44 is added. o-Z. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, BE and L.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-Z Income benefit 1 — For the purposes of the legal scheme relating to the income allowance, this, when required and due to the leaser under 35 years of age, is increased by 8, 34 percentage points as a percentage of the value of the income, while the leaser does not exceed that age limit. 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph do not prejudice the need to verify the other requirements for the award of the allowance, in accordance with the legal scheme relating to the income allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u557	We proceed with the vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o-AA. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-AA Amendment to the Seal Tax Code Article 7. that of the Seal Tax Code, approved in Annex to Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September in its current wording, is replaced by the following: « Article 7. [... ] ( y ) Rental contracts where the tenant, or the tenant, is less than 35 years old on the date of conclusion of the contract. [...] ’
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u558	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD in the parts in which Article 44 is added. o-AB, a Article 44. o-AC and a Article 44. o-AD. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-AB Programme to support the acquisition of the first own and permanent housing The programme to support the acquisition of first own and permanent housing to young people up to the age of 35 years by means of a public guarantee instrument ( Programme). Article 44. o-AC Scope 1 — The Programme shall provide support for the acquisition of first and permanent housing for young people up to 35 years of age by granting a public guarantee on bank loans for housing credit. 2 — The public guarantee referred to in the previous paragraph shall have a maximum value of 10 % or less of the total amount of bank financing and shall be replaced by its own capital. 3 — The public guarantee shall be extinguished when the first 10 % of the capital originally borrowed is found. Article 44. o-AD Conditions of access 1 — Has the right to public guarantee support for the purchase of property for young people who invoke and cumulatively verify the following conditions: (a) under 35 years of age at the date of conclusion of the contract for the purchase and sale of the property; (b) conclusion of a contract for the first own and permanent housing of the buyer; (c) purchase value of the property up to 250 000, 00 Euros; (d) debt service-to-income ratio, in the English language DSTI, of the buyer(s) calculated by the financial institution being equal to or less than 50 %, considering a 100 % financing of the purchase value of the property. 2 — In the case of purchase of property, the requirements set out in the previous paragraph shall apply to all owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u559	We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment 4 to the PSD in the parts in which Article 44 is added. o-AE and a Article 44. o-AF. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP, and the abstention from BE.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-AE Access to support system 1 — Access to the Programme is required from banking and financial institutions, which verify compliance with access conditions in accordance with the above paragraph. 2 — the undue refusal to have access to the Programme is a complaint to be lodged with the Banco de Portugal, without prejudice to the other means of administrative and judicial guarantee of the rights of applicants. Article 44. o-AF Information and monitoring report 1 — The Government, through the member of the government responsible for the financial area, prepares an annual report containing at least the following information: (a) number of claims to housing contracted; (b) amounts contracted; (c) State contingent responsibilities through public guarantees; (d) other elements that it understands relevant to monitoring the Programme. 2 — An analysis of alternative scenarios to the model defined in this Act is also available in the annual report referred to in the previous paragraph.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u560	We now have to vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, in the part where Article 44 is added. o-AG. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against PSD, CH and PAN and L abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-AG Amendment to the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate Article 9. that of the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate, approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 287/2003 of 12 November 2003 in its current wording, is replaced by the following: « 1 — [ Previous body of the article]. 2 — The acquisitions of an urban building or an autonomous part of an urban building intended exclusively for own and permanent housing are still exempt, the value of which would be based on liquidation shall not exceed EUR 250 000, EUR 00 where the purchaser, or acquirers, at the time of acquisition, is 35 years old or less and is the first acquisition of own and permanent housing of the acquirer(s ). [... ] ’
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u561	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for amendment 4 of the PSD, in the part in which Article 44 is added. o-AH. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-AH Amendment to the Seal Tax Code Article 7. that of the Seal Tax Code, approved in Annex to Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September in its current wording, is replaced by the following: « Article 7. the [... ] ( j ) the mutuals constituted under the legal arrangement of the housing credit up to the amount of the capital in debt, when: i. If it is the first acquisition of the person's own and permanent housing, or of the persons, who shall bear the charge of the tax in accordance with Article 3. o ; or ii. they result in a change in the credit institution or subrogation in the mortgage creditor's rights and guarantees in accordance with Article 591. the Civil Code. ( y ) housing leases where the tenant, or the tenant, is not less than 35 years of age; [...] ’
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u562	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 4 to the PSD, where Article 44 is added. o-AI. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the BE.]] It was as follows: Article 44. o-AI [ i-II [ PRR for Housing] 1 — The Government promotes the acceleration of the implementation of the RRR RRR funds for Housing, in particular through the amendment of the regulations applicable to Programmes C02-iRR [ IRRPR for Housing] 1 — The Government promotes the acceleration of the implementation of the RRR RRR funds for Housing, in particular through the amendment of the Regulations applicable to the Programmes C02-iRRed by the IRR Programmes C02-iRRed version of the Programmes C02-iRR for Housing Access Support Programmes; C02-i02 — National Temporary Urgent Temporary Urgent Temporary Urgent Temporary Urgent Housing Housing Fund; C02 — i05 — Public Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserved Public Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Park (RRRRRD) and CRRized by amending the Regulations C02-i RRR for Housing Access for Housing Access for Housing Programmes; C02 — The Government promotes the acceleration arrangements ; C02; C02 — i-AI [ i-AI [ RRR RRR for Housing Fund for Habitat] 1 — The I I R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R [ R R R R R R R R R R R R R [ R R R R R R [ R R R R R R [ R R R R [ R [ R R R R R R RIP [ RIP [ RIP [ R R [ R R R R RIP [ RIP funds funds funds funds funds funds funds funds funds funds funds) 1 funds) 1 funds) 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 – I I I [ R R R R R R R R R [ R R R R R R R R R [ R [ I [ R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R [ ( 1 — 1 — The contribution; 1 — The contribution; 1 — The contribution; 1 — The Government Programme Programme Programme Programme Programme Programme Programme Programme Programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme; 1 — The 1 — The 1 — The 1 — The ( 1 — The 1 — the Government Programme Programme Programme Programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme programme 2 — The Government promotes legislative, regulatory, tax and regulatory changes, revision of urban management instruments and the mobilization of financial resources, notably at the level of Portugal 2030, which remove barriers and disincentives and promote the dissemination in Portugal of the following housing and housing instruments: (a) Build-to-Rent, the concept of building and promoting real estate for long-term leases, including the promotion of legislative or regulatory changes, including in interaction with the Bank of Portugal, which enable long-term banking financing to invest in projects Build-to-Rent ; (b) Long-term housing models with combined service (Mixed Housing) as a ‘broad’ alternative to supply development programmes in certain areas and greater sized real estate promotion projects, a combination of residents of different performance profiles, with minimum requirement for long-term use, medium-term and low-term use of service (dxed Housing) as a ‘suitable’; (c) Costualisation of operating cooperation(e) Facilitation of the modular housing which allows for the reduction of construction costs and, consequently, of the sale or lease subsequently. Chapter VI [...] Chapter VII [...] Article 53. ( a) paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 54, 9 to 17, 21 and 27 to 30 of Article 71. that of EBF; [ Amended ] b) [ Delete ] Article 54. the [... ] 4 — They shall take effect from 1 January 2024, in the wording introduced by this Law, the following Articles : ( a ) Articles 72. o, 78. o, 78. o-E is 78. ( b) Article 7. ( c) Article 17. (d) Article 112. the -A of the IMI Code; (e) Article 50. -A of the Statute of Tax Benefits. Article 55. the [... ] [... ] 2 — The provisions of Article 15 ( 1 ). o-AA shall apply from the date of entry into force of the State Budget Act to 2024. 3 — The income allowance provided for in this Act may be applied for and allocated from the date of entry into force of the State Budget Act for 2024. 4 - They shall take effect from 1 January 2024, in the wording introduced by this Law, Articles 44. o-Z, 44. o-AA, 44. o-AG, 44. o-AH. ANNEX[ Injurious] ( referred to in Article 22. ( o ) ANNEX 1 [ referred to in Article 44. o -A ] Creation of an exceptional scheme for the provision of devolved or underused buildings Chapter I General Part Article 1. the Purpose This Act regulates the programme of cooperation between the State and the Local Authorities for the use of inactive public real estate(Programa) and establishes a special procedure for the assignment of temporary use to municipalities, the parish with more than 10,000 inhabitants or inter-municipal entities of real estate in the public domain of the State and of immovable property in the private domain of the State and of public institutions which are devolved or underused. Article 2 the Objectives and content 1 — The Programme promotes collaboration between, on the one hand, state-owned public entities or managers of devolved or underused buildings and, on the other, municipalities, parishes with more than ten thousand inhabitants or intermunicipal entities (local public entities), with a view to the use and profitability of these buildings, the prevention of their degradation and the dynamization of the capillary management of the public heritage. 2 — Collaboration between public entities holding or managing real estate and local public entities may take place, inter alia, in the following ways: (a) Accomplishment of public buildings returned or underused in the territory of the local public entity; (b) Support of the local public entity in the administrative, registering or matricial regularisation of buildings; (c) Support of the local public entity in the process of alienation or costly transfer from the property to third parties; (d) Measures to preserve or rehabilitate buildings by the local public entity; (e) Temporary assignment of the property to the local public entity for the realization of projects of public interest. Article 3 the real estate covered 1 — This law covers the property of the public domain of the State and the property of the private domain of the State and of public institutions which are devolved or underused. 2 — For the purposes of this Act: (a) Returned property, any urban building or autonomous fraction that, having areas that can be used, is unoccupied; (b) Underused property, all urban building or autonomous fraction whose areas effectively used correspond to less than 1 / 4 of the useful areas available. 3 — For the purposes of this law, they relate to urban and mixed buildings. 4 — For the purposes of paragraph 2 ( a ), the absence of contracts in force with water, gas and electricity supply undertakings or the absence of invoicing relating to water, gas and electricity consumption shall be evidenced. Article 4 the subjective scope The Programme regulated by this Act covers the following: (a) Local public entities, which are municipalities, or parish with more than 10,000 inhabitants, or intermunicipal entities; (b) State public entities which are holders or managers of the buildings referred to in the preceding article, in particular bodies, services and entities of the direct and indirect administration of the State. Article 5. the principle of burden 1 — The forms of collaboration referred to in the article shall involve some form of counterpart, either through the collaboration provided by the local public body or through the transfer of temporary use of the property. (b) the provision of services or incorporation of goods with a view to the use, profitability, conservation or rehabilitation of buildings; Article 6. The monitoring of Programme 1 — The members of the Government responsible for the Treasury and Local Administration shall appoint a supervisor for the duration of the Programme. ( b) verify, by sampling and using the stock exchange of evaluators from the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance ( DGTF ), the assessments of the buildings submitted by the tenderers as provided for in Chapter III ; 3 — The single prosecutor appointed from among the official auditors of accounts or companies of official auditors of accounts entered in their list of the Order of Official Accountants and the Securities Market Commission. Chapter II Cooperation for the return on assets Article 7. the articulation of cooperation by the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance 1 — Local public entities may, on request or with the agreement of DGTF referred to in Article 8 ( 2 ) provide any of the services referred to in Article 2 ( a) and ( d ). o 2 — Any public entity holding property referred to in Article 3. it may request the cooperation of local public bodies under the Programme regulated by this Act and shall simultaneously inform DGTF of the request. Article 8. the lifting of devolved or under-used public buildings 1 — The local public entity may draw up and submit to DGTF a survey of the devolved or under-used public buildings located in its territory. 2 — The survey referred to in the previous paragraph shall be drawn up in a form made available by DGTF on its website. 3 — The local public authority which shall issue a public property collection valid and completed in accordance with the terms set out in the FRG form shall receive as a counterpart credits for temporary transfer of public property to be contracted under Chapter III, in the following proportion depending on the number of inhabitants: (a) ≤ 10 thousand inhabitants, the power to use over one property for every three buildings identified in the survey and validated by FRG ; (b) > 10 thousand and ≤ 50 thousand inhabitants, the power to use over one property for every five buildings identified in the survey and validated by FRG ; (c) > 50 thousand inhabitants, the power to use over one property for every ten buildings identified in the survey and validated by FRG. 4 — The power duty referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be increased by 100 % if the buildings identified in the survey are classified. Article 9. o Support in administrative regularisation, register! or real estate matrix; 1 — DGTF or the entity holding the property, with the knowledge of that property, may request support from the local public entity in the material and legal acts necessary for the regularisation of the property in terms of urban planning licensing, horizontal property constitution, registration in the residential register, matrix registration or batch operation. 2 — As opposed to the support service provided for in the previous paragraph, the local public entity may receive: (a) appropriations for the assignment of temporary use of public buildings to be contracted under Chapter III; (b) a cash payment in accordance with the emolumentary table, approved by office of the members of the Government responsible for the areas of treasure and local administration, within 90 days of the publication of this law and after the hearing of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias. 3 — The determination of the counterparty of the local public body shall be made in the order of DGTF referred to in Article 7 ( 3 ). the 4 — In the order referred to in the previous paragraph, DGTF may confer on the local public entity the powers of representation of the property holder for the practice of the acts necessary for administrative, register or matrix regularisation. Article 10. Support in the transfer or transfer process from property to third parties; 1 — DGTF or the entity holding the property, with the knowledge of that property, may request the local public authority: (a) operational support in the promotion of return or under-used public property profitability operations, including their placing on the market and identification of potential stakeholders, in strict compliance with applicable public procurement rules; (b) receiving the temporary leased property for sub-cession or lease to third parties. 2 — As opposed to the activities provided for in the previous paragraph, the local public body may receive any of the counterparties referred to in paragraph 2 of the preceding Article. Article 11. the maintenance and preservation of buildings by the Local Entity; 1 — The DGTF or the entity holding the property, with the knowledge of the property, may contract with the local public entity: (b) a percentage of the product to be received by the holder in the event of profitability of the property; 3 — In the case of rehabilitation operations carried out under this Act, the local public entity may promote and subscribe applications for allowances and support to which the project is eligible. Chapter III Special procedure for the assignment of temporary use Article 12. the Initiation of proceedings The procedure laid down in this chapter begins with the presentation of a proposal for a concession of use by the local public authority, which in this chapter is designated as « Proponent ». Article 13. The proposal for a concession of use 1. The proposer may submit to the DGTF a proposal for the assignment of the use of immovable property which is devolved or under-utilised, with a view to bringing it to an end corresponding to the tasks pursued by him. 2. The proposer is always transferable from the property and the first responsible for fulfilling the legal and contractual obligations relating to it. 3. The proposal to be submitted by the proposer shall include: (a) a project for the use of the property as provided for in the following Article; (b) a proposal for the duration of the assignment of use; (c) an assessment of the property in accordance with Article 15. o, d ) A counter-repretation proposal as provided for in Article 23. (e) the demonstration of the proposal’s financial capacity appropriate to the implementation of the project. Article 14. the project of use of the property 1 — The project of use of the property identifies the activity or end of public interest to which the Proponent intends to target the use of the property, paying attention to its location, the rules of the municipal instrument of management of the applicable territory and possible classification of the property. 2 — The project also includes a descriptive memory of any works of preservation or rehabilitation of the property and changes that the Proponent intends to carry out in the property. 3 — The proposer may involve public or private partners in the implementation of the project, and in this case shall include in the proposal the general terms of such cooperation. 4 — The agreement provided for in the previous paragraph does not confer any rights on the assignor to any partners and automatically expires with the termination of the assignment. 5 — The choice of a private partner by the Proponent respects the rules of public procurement. Article 15. the valuation of the property 1 — The proposal submitted by the Proponent is accompanied by an assessment of the property carried out by the evaluator expert registered at the CMM, at the expense of the Proponent. 2 — The Single Prosecutor provided for in Article 6. the verification, by sampling and using the scholarship of assessors of the DGTF, the evaluations presented by the Proponents. Article 16. the Instruction 1 — Within 15 days of receipt of the proposal to DGTF shall promote the hearing: (a) of the ministry which protects the entity or service to which the property is affected; (b) of the owner of the property; (c) of the entity responsible for the classification, in the case of the property is classified. 2 — The entities referred to in the previous paragraph shall deliver their opinion on the proposal within 45 days of the notification by DGTF. 3 — DGTF shall immediately forward to the Rapporteur a copy of the opinions provided for in this Article. 4 — DGTF must listen to the rapporteur before taking the final decision, informing him, in particular, on the likely meaning of this decision. 5 — In the light of the opinions or draft decisions referred to in the previous paragraphs, the Proposal may reformulate its proposal. Article 17. Decision 1 — DGTF shall decide to accept or reject the proposal within 90 days of its receipt. 2 — In the event of a reformulation of the proposal pursuant to paragraph 2 of the preceding Article, the FFD shall have a period of 45 days to decide, extending the time limit of the previous paragraph if necessary. 3 — The tacit deferral of the proposal is made if, at the end of the period laid down for the decision, the proposal is not given and notified to the Rapporteur. 4 — The maximum head of the public legal person owned by the property or, in the absence thereof, the member of the government responsible for the financial area shall deliver to the Proponent the property contained in the proposal submitted by it within 60 days of the express or tacit deferral of the proposal. 5 — In the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the previous paragraph, the urban policy instruments referred to in Article 54 shall apply. 2 et seq. of the legal regime of urban rehabilitation, approved by Decree-Law No 307 / 2009 of 23 October 2009. 6 — The DGTF may only reject the proposal with the following grounds: (a) the illegality of the purposes or activities of the proposed use project; (b) the illegality or manifest disappropriation to the public interest of the works for the preservation or rehabilitation of the property provided for in the project; (c) the lack of demonstration of the financial capacity for the implementation of the project and its sustainability; (d) the manifest injury to the public interest in the acceptance of the counter-responsibility proposed by the Proponent, weighted the probability of alternatives to the profitability of the property; (e) the owner of the property has an alternative project for the use of the property, which is shown to start within six months ; (f) the DGTF or the owner of the property have a firm offer for the alienation or costly assignment of that which is generating revenue above that would result from the acceptance of the proposal of the Proponent. 7 — If the basis for the rejection of the proposal is one of the provisions of points (e) and (f) of the previous paragraph and the alternative operation does not take place within six months of the decision of DGTF, the proposer shall have the right to request the re-evaluation of the proposal without the same grounds for rejection being invoked. 8 — the act of disregarding the proposal shall be made available to the member of the Government responsible for the treasury area. Article 18. the Legal Representative without prejudice to the hearing referred to in Article 16. the and of the possible rights to the repayment supported by the Proponent, DGTF acts as legal representative of the owner of the property in the decision-making acts of the proposal and others that are necessary in the management of the buildings. Article 19. Form 1 — The favourable, express or silent decision of DGTF is quite a title for the tenderer to assume the use of the property and initiate the execution of the project. 2 — If the order of the DGTF is subject to condition, the contract shall form with the acceptance expressed by the Proponent of the conditions laid down in it. Article 20. the Expiry for non-implementation of project 1 — If the Proponent does not initiate the execution of the project within six months of the order of DGTF, the temporary assignment shall expire. 2 — At the rapporteur's reasoned request, DGTF may once again extend the period laid down in the previous paragraph. Article 21 the constitution of duties or charges The proposer may not constitute on the property burden or charges, except by prior and express authorization from DGTF. Article 22. the works of preservation and rehabilitation of the property The acceptance by DGTF of the proposal implies the authorization of the Proponent to carry out the works of conservation, rehabilitation or modification of the property that consists of descriptive memory integrated into the project. Article 23. the Financial Scheme of Allocation 1 — The temporary transfer of the property is in accordance with the principle of the burden enshrined in Article 54. odo Decree-Law No 280 / 2007 of 7 August, considering the assessment provided for in Article 15. (b) payment of income; c) delivery to the State of part of the revenue obtained from the operation of the property. 3 — In the event that the transfer is made solely by making investment in the property, the period of assignment shall be fixed according to the relationship between the current value of the property provided for in the assessment referred to in Article 15. the and the volume of investment in work to be carried out, plus a maximum period of three years to carry out the work. (b) 70 % for the owner of the property after the value of the investment is amortised. Article 24. the term of assignment of use 1 — The transfer of property shall be the maximum duration of 50 years. 2 — The DGTF may determine a period of less than the duration of the assignment proposed by the Proponent, on the basis of a significant drawback to the public interest of the duration proposed by the Proponent and in the extent to which the investment made by the Proponent is due. 3 — The advance resolution of the concession by DGTF implies communication to the Rapporteur in advance of at least 60 days per year missing for the end of the contract and compensation for the investment made and not yet amortised. Chapter IV Final provisions Article 25. This Act shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following its publication. Article 26. the Subsidiary Regime In everything that is not specifically regulated in this Act, the provisions of the public real estate scheme, approved by Decree-Law No 280/2007 of 7 August 2007 shall apply in its current wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u563	We proceed with the vote on Amendment No 1 to the NAP, which replaces Article 46. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] It was as follows: Article 46. the thermal and water rehabilitation of housing In the design of future warnings of the Environmental Fund, dedicated to the improvement of energy and water efficiency of the existing housing park, are necessarily considered evaluation mechanisms that leverage applications dedicated to the thermal and water rehabilitation of housing that are intended for affordable lease.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u564	We shall vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the NAP, in the part in which Article 48 is added. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions PSD, CH and CFP.]] It was as follows: Article 48. o -The Amendment to Decree-Law No. 20 - 8 / 2023, of March 22 Articles 4 are amended. o, 9. o, 14. o, 15. it's 16. the Decree-Law No 20 - B / 2023, of 22 March, which is replaced by the following: « Article 4. 1 — [... ] ( c) have an annual income per taxable person of the family aggregate equal to or less than the maximum limit of the sixth step of the table provided for in Article 68 ( 1 ). that of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ( IRS ), approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, in force at the date of allocation of support, d) have an effort rate equal to or greater than 35 / prct. its annual income with the annual payment charges for income or credit benefits covered by this Decree-Law, taking into account all actual or potential liabilities arising from credit operations, in any form or mode; 2 — [... ] (i) Scholarship in higher education in the school year 2022 / 2023 or in the school year 2023 / 2024. 3 — For the purposes of the above paragraph, the monthly total income per taxable person of the family aggregate may not exceed the amount corresponding to 1 / 14 of the maximum limit value of the sixth step of the table provided for in Article 68 ( 1 ). the IRS Code, in force on the date of allocation of support. Article 9. 1 — [... ] b) The annual income per taxable person of the family aggregate shall not exceed the maximum limit of the sixth step of the table provided for in Article 68 ( 1 ). that of the IRS Code, in force on the date of allocation of support; Article 14. 1 — [... ] c) have an annual income per taxable person of the family aggregate equal to or less than the maximum limit of the sixth step of the table provided for in Article 68 (2). that of the IRS Code or that, being above, has suffered a breakdown of more than 20 % of its incomes that fit them up to the maximum limit of the sixth step. Article 15. the [... ] 3 — In order to ascertain the rate of effort, all effective or potential liabilities arising from credit operations, in any form or mode, shall be considered and shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to the provisions of Article 4 (2) and (3). the Decree-Law No 80 -A / 2022, of 25 November. Article 16. the 5 — [... ] ( b ) 50 % of the value determined in accordance with paragraph 3 where the borrower has an annual income by taxable person of the family unit higher than that referred to in the preceding paragraph and equal to or less than the maximum limit of the sixth step of the table provided for in Article 68 ( 1 ). the IRS Code. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u565	We are now voting on the proposal for Amendment No 3 to BE, in the part where Article 48 is added. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and PCP were rejected, votes against IL, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: Article 48. o -Prohibition of the alienation of buildings 1 — No direct or indirect alienation of property to non-residents is permitted. 2 — The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall also apply to: (a) commercial companies based in Portugal, whose actual beneficiary we have of Act No 89 / 2017 of 21 August 2017 in their current wording, whether they are non-resident ; (b) direct or indirect disposal of property to non-residents is not permitted. 3 — The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to: or 80. (c) Persons covered by the protection conferred by Law No. 27 / 2008 of 30 June, and by Law No. 67 / 2003 of 23 August, both in their current wording;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u566	The vote is followed by the vote on Amendment No 1 of the NAP, in the part where Article 49 is added. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: Article 49. o -The Mechanism shall prevent the rise in the provision of housing credit within 30 days of the publication of this law, the Government, by means of prior linkage with credit institutions, its representative organisations and representative organisations of bank customers and consumers, shall establish a mechanism for the increase in the provision of housing credit, which, without any additional charges for the customer, shall be activated so that the interest rate applied to the contract exceeds the 3 percentage points compared to the rate contracted at the beginning of the loan and a rate of effort exceeding 35 % shall be established.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u567	We shall vote on the proposal for Amendment No 7 to the CFP, in the part in which Articles 50 are deleted. is 51. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u568	We shall proceed with the vote on the proposal for Amendment No 3, in the part in which Article 51 is added. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 51. o -A Limits the variation in the rate of effort in housing credit 1 — This law applies to credit operations intended solely for the acquisition or construction of eligible own and permanent housing to be associated with monthly benefits corresponding to a variation in the rate of effort above 2 pp. ( a) by credit operations all credit operations and financial leases of real estate, intended for the purchase or construction of own and permanent housing, granted by credit institutions, credit corporations, investment companies, financial leases, factoring companies and mutual guarantee companies and by branches of credit institutions and financial institutions to be operated in Portugal, hereinafter referred to as « institutions ». ( b) By effort rate, the DSTI indicator ( Debt Service-To-Income ) as defined in the Banco de Portugal Recommendation under the new credit contracts concluded with consumers. ( c) by own and permanent housing eligible to meet cumulatively with the following criteria : ( i ) Credit to housing is guaranteed by mortgage which affects the real estate which is the borrower's own and permanent housing; ( ii ) The capital value of the property does not exceed €250,000. 3 — Where appropriate the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. the, the institutions are obliged to renegotiate the contractual conditions of the credit operations to housing covered in order to ensure a maximum variation of the rate of effort of the borrowers of 2 p.p. 4 — the variation laid down in the previous paragraph may not result in an effort rate exceeding 50 %. 5 — The renegotiation should be promoted by the institution through the submission to the borrower of one or more proposals appropriate to its financial situation, which should include, inter alia, the reduction of the contractual spread rate. 6 — In the application of this Act, the institution shall be prevented from: (a) resolving the credit contract on the basis of non-compliance; (b) seeking or pursuing judicial proceedings with a view to satisfying its credit; (c) giving the third party or all of the credit; or (d) transmitting its contractual position to the third party. 7 — Institutions shall be deprived of fees for renegotiating contractual conditions under this Act, in particular with regard to the analysis and formalization of such operations. 8 — In the submission of proposals to borrowers, the institutions shall observe the information duties provided for in the specific legislation and regulations. 9 — Institutions shall have the duty to disclose and advertise the exceptional arrangements provided for in this law, on their website and through regular contacts with their customers. 10 — The Banco de Portugal shall regulate the forms in which the provision of information provided for in the previous paragraph is to be carried out and shall be responsible for the supervision and supervision of the arrangements provided for in this Act. 11 — Failure by the institutions of the duties provided for in this Act or in the rules adopted by the Banco de Portugal for its implementation constitutes a counter-ordination applicable to penalties in accordance with Article 210. the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, in its current wording, is applicable to the clearance of their counter-order national responsibility the substantive and procedural regime provided for in that General Regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u569	We turn to Article 53. o — Revocational rules. With no objection, we shall vote on the PSD proposal 4, in the part in which it replaces point ( a ), together with the part in which it deletes point ( b ) of the said article. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: ( a) Articles 71 ( 1 ), 2, 3, 9 to 17, 21 and 27 to 30. that of EBF;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u570	The vote is followed by the vote on IL proposal 6, in the part where it replaces Article 6(c). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the PCP and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: ( c) Article 15 ( 7 ). Article 15. o-E, Article 15 ( 2 ). o-J, Article 15. o-L, Article 15 (2), (3) and (4). o-M, Articles 15. o-N to 15. o-P, paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 and Article 15 ( 9 ( c ). o-S and Article 15. NRAU o-U ;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u571	We then vote on proposal 7 of the CFP, which replaces point ( d ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: (d) Article 3 ( 1 ( d) and Article 3 ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) shall be repealed. Article 90. Article 122 ( A ) and ( r ). the Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u572	We now vote on proposal 7 of the CFP, in the part in which it deletes point ( f ). [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CH, votes against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] At the end of this speciality vote, the confirmation vote will be electronic and, therefore, there will be a new quorum check automatically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u573	Oh, that's why everyone's here! Marotos!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u574	The vote is followed by the vote on IL proposal 6, in the part where a point ( g ) is added. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: ( g ) Article 17 (1) ( a ). that of the IMT Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u575	We now turn to Article 54. o — Production of effects. We shall vote on proposal 7 of the CFP, in the part in which it deletes paragraph 1 (a) of this Article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and the abstention from the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on IL proposal 6, in the part where it replaces Article 1 ( 1 (a). [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: (a) Section II of Chapter IV of the NRAU, in the wording given to them by this Law;
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u576	We shall now vote on proposal 6, from the IL, in the part in which it deletes paragraph 2 of this Article. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 7, of the CFP, in the part in which paragraph 3 is deleted. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]] We now vote on proposal 4, from the PSD, in the part in which we add paragraph 4. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 4 — They shall take effect as from 1 January 2024, in the wording introduced by this Law, the following Articles: (a) Articles 72. o, 78. o, 78. o-E is 78. ( b) Article 7. ( c) Article 17. (d) Article 112. the -A of the IMI Code; (e) Article 50. -A of the Statute of Tax Benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u577	We turn to Article 55. o — Entry into force. We shall vote on proposal 4, from the PSD, where a paragraph 2 is added. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the PAN, and the abstention from BE.]] It was as follows: 2 — The provisions of Article 15 ( 1 ). o-AA shall apply from the date of entry into force of the State Budget Act to 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u578	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 9, by Members of the Madeira PSD, in the part where a paragraph 2 is added to Article 1. Annex I, as referred to in Article 22. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstention from the CFP.]] It was as follows: 2 — ECAL does not apply to autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u579	We will now vote on proposal 4, from the PSD, in the parts in which we add a new Annex I and an Annex II. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] It was as follows: ANNEX I [ as referred to in Article 44. o -A ] Creation of an exceptional scheme for the provision of devolved or underused buildings Chapter I General Part Article 1. the Purpose This Act regulates the programme of cooperation between the State and local authorities for the use of inactive public real estate (Programme) and establishes a special procedure for the assignment of temporary use to municipalities, the parish with more than 10 000 inhabitants or inter-municipal entities of public property in the state domain and property in the private domain of the State and public institutions which are returned or underused. Article 2 the Objectives and content 1 — The Programme promotes collaboration between, on the one hand, state-owned public entities or managers of devolved or underused buildings and, on the other, municipalities, parishes with more than 10 000 inhabitants or intermunicipal entities (local public entities), with a view to the use and profitability of these buildings, the prevention of their degradation and the dynamization of the capillary management of the public heritage. 2 — Collaboration between public entities holding or managing real estate and local public entities may take place, inter alia, in the following ways: (a) Accomplishment of public buildings returned or underused in the territory of the local public entity; (b) Support of the local public entity in the administrative, registral or matricial regularisation of buildings; (c) Support of the local public entity in the process of alienation or costly transfer of property to third parties; (d) Interventions for the preservation or rehabilitation of buildings by the local public entity; (e) Temporary assignment of use of the property to the local public entity for the realization of projects of public interest. Article 3 the real estate covered 1 — This law covers the property of the public domain of the State and the property of the private domain of the State and of public institutions which are devolved or underused. 2 — For the purposes of this Act: (a) Returned property, any urban building or autonomous fraction that, having areas that can be used, is unoccupied; (b) Underused property, all urban building or autonomous fraction whose areas effectively used correspond to less than 1 / 4 of the useful areas available. 3 — For the purposes of this law, they relate to urban and mixed buildings. 4 — For the purposes of paragraph 2 ( a ), the absence of contracts in force with water, gas and electricity supply undertakings or the absence of invoicing relating to water, gas and electricity consumption shall be evidenced. Article 4 the subjective scope The Programme regulated by this Act covers the following: (a) Local public entities, which are municipalities, or parish with more than 10 000 inhabitants, or intermunicipal entities; (b) State public entities which are holders or managers of the buildings referred to in the preceding article, in particular bodies, services and entities of the direct and indirect administration of the State. Article 5. The principle of honour 1 — The forms of collaboration referred to in Article 2. it should involve some form of counterpart, either by the collaboration provided by the local public entity, or by the assignment of temporary use of the property. (b) the provision of services or incorporation of goods with a view to the use, profitability, conservation or rehabilitation of buildings; Article 6. The monitoring of Programme 1 — The members of the Government responsible for the treasure and local administration shall appoint a supervisor for the duration of the Programme. ( b) verify, by sampling and using the stock exchange of evaluators from the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance ( DGTF ), the assessments of the buildings submitted by the tenderers as provided for in Chapter III ; 3 — The single prosecutor appointed from among the official auditors of accounts or companies of official auditors of accounts entered in their list of the Order of Official Accountants and the Securities Market Commission. Chapter II Cooperation for the return on assets Article 7. the articulation of cooperation by the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance 1 — Local public entities may, upon request or with the agreement of DGTF referred to in Article 8 ( 2 ). the provision of any of the services referred to in Article 2 ( a) and ( d ). o 2 — Any public entity holding property referred to in Article 3. it may request the cooperation of local public bodies under the Programme regulated by this Act and shall simultaneously inform DGTF of the request. Article 8. the lifting of devolved or under-used public buildings 1 — The local public entity may draw up and submit to DGTF a survey of the devolved or under-used public buildings located in its territory. 2 — The survey referred to in the previous paragraph shall be drawn up in a form made available by DGTF on its website. 3 — The local public authority which shall issue a public property collection valid and completed in accordance with the terms set out in the DGTF form shall receive as a counterpart credits for the temporary transfer of public property to be contracted in accordance with Chapter III, in the following proportion according to the number of inhabitants: (a) ≤ 10 000 inhabitants, the legitimate right of use on one property for every three buildings identified in the survey and validated by DGTF ; (b) > 10 000 and ≤ 50 000 inhabitants, the legitimate right of use on one property for every five buildings identified in the survey and validated by DGTF ; (c) > 50 000 inhabitants, the positive right of use on one property for every ten buildings identified in the survey and validated by DGTF. 4 — The power duty referred to in the previous paragraph shall be increased by 100 % if the buildings identified in the survey are classified. Article 9. the support for the administrative, record or matrix adjustment of buildings 1 — The DGTF or the entity holding the property, with the knowledge of that property, may request the support of the local public entity in the material and legal acts necessary for the regularization of the property in terms of urban licensing, horizontal property constitution, registration in the residential register, matrix registration or batching operation. 2 — As opposed to the support service provided for in the previous paragraph, the local public authority may receive: (a) appropriations for the temporary transfer of public buildings to be contracted under Chapter III; (b) a cash payment in accordance with the emolumentary table, approved by office of the members of the Government responsible for the areas of treasure and local administration, within 90 days of the publication of this law and after the hearing of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias. 3 — The determination of the counterparty of the local public body shall be made in the order of DGTF referred to in Article 7 ( 3 ). the 4 — In the order referred to in the previous paragraph, DGTF may confer on the local public entity the powers of representation of the property holder for the practice of the acts necessary for administrative, register or matrix regularisation. Article 10. Support in the transfer or transfer process from the property to third parties 1 — The DGTF or the entity holding the property, with the knowledge of that property, may request the local public authority: (a) Operational support in the promotion of profitable operations of the returned or under-used public property, including its placing on the market and the identification of potential stakeholders, in strict compliance with applicable public procurement rules; (b) receiving the property in temporary transfer for subcession or lease to third parties. 2 — As opposed to the activities provided for in the previous paragraph, the local public body may receive any of the counterparties referred to in paragraph 2 of the preceding Article. Article 11. the maintenance and preservation of buildings by the local entity 1 — The DGTF or the entity holding the property, with the knowledge of the property, may contract with the local public entity: (b) a percentage of the product to be received by the holder in the event of profitability of the property; 3 — In the case of rehabilitation operations carried out under this Act, the local public entity may promote and subscribe applications for allowances and support to which the project is eligible. Chapter III Special procedure for the assignment of temporary use Article 12. the Initiation of proceedings The procedure laid down in this Chapter shall commence with the submission of a proposal for a concession of use by the local public authority, which in this Chapter shall be designated as « proposer ». Article 13. The proposal for a concession for use 1 — The tenderer may submit to the DGTF a proposal for a concession for the use of immovable property which is devolved or under-utilised, with a view to bringing them to an end corresponding to the tasks pursued by him. 2 — The tenderer is always the assignee of the property and the first responsible for fulfilling the legal and contractual obligations relating to it. 3 — The proposal to be submitted by the tenderer shall include: (a) a project for the use of the property as provided for in the following Article; (b) a proposal for the duration of the assignment of use; (c) an assessment of the property in accordance with Article 15. ( d) a proposal for a consideration in accordance with Article 23. (e) the demonstration of the financial capacity of the proposer appropriate to the implementation of the project. Article 14. the project of use of the property 1 — The project of use of the property identifies the activity or end of public interest to which the Proponent intends to target the use of the property, paying attention to its location, the rules of the municipal instrument of management of the applicable territory and possible classification of the property. 2 — The project also includes a descriptive memory of any works of preservation or rehabilitation of the property and changes that the proposer intends to carry out in the property. 3 — The tenderer may involve public or private partners in the implementation of the project, and in this case shall include in the proposal the general terms of such cooperation. 4 — The agreement provided for in the previous paragraph does not confer any rights on the assignor to any partners and automatically expires with the termination of the assignment. 5 — The choice of a private partner by the tenderer respects the rules of public procurement. Article 15. the valuation of the property 1 — The proposal submitted by the proposer is accompanied by an assessment of the property carried out by the evaluator expert registered at the CMM, at the expense of the tenderer. 2 — The Single Prosecutor provided for in Article 6. the verification, by sampling and using the scholarship of assessors of the DGTF, the evaluations presented by the proposers. Article 16. the Instruction 1 — Within 15 days of receipt of the proposal, DGTF shall promote the hearing: (a) of the ministry protecting the entity or service to which the property is affected; (b) of the owner of the property; (c) of the entity responsible for the classification, in the case of the property being classified. 2 — The entities referred to in the previous paragraph shall deliver their opinion on the proposal within 45 days of the notification by DGTF. 3 — DGTF shall immediately forward to the tenderer a copy of the opinions provided for in this Article. 4 — DGTF must listen to the tenderer before making the final decision, informing him, in particular, on the likely meaning of the final decision. 5 — In the light of the opinions or draft decisions referred to in the previous paragraphs, the proposer may recast his proposal. Article 17. Decision 1 — DGTF shall decide to accept or reject the proposal within 90 days of its receipt. 2 — In the event of a reformulation of the proposal pursuant to paragraph 5 of the preceding article, the DGTF shall have a period of 45 days to decide, extending the period of the previous number if necessary. 3 — The tacit deferral of the proposal is made if, at the end of the period laid down for the decision, the proposal is not given and notified to the tenderer. 4 — The maximum head of the public legal person owned by the property or, in the absence thereof, the member of the Government responsible for the financial area shall deliver to the tenderer the property contained in the proposal submitted by it within 60 days of the express or tacit deferral of the proposal. 5 — In the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the previous paragraph, the urban policy instruments referred to in Article 54 shall apply. the following and legal regime of urban rehabilitation, approved by Decree-Law No 307 / 2009, of 23 October. 6 — The DGTF may only reject the proposal with the following grounds: (a) the illegality of the purposes or activities of the proposed use project; (b) the illegality or manifest disappropriation to the public interest of the works for the preservation or rehabilitation of the property provided for in the project; (c) the lack of demonstration of the financial capacity for the implementation of the project and its sustainability; (d) the manifest injury to the public interest in the acceptance of the counter-responsibility proposed by the tenderer, weighted the probability of alternatives to the profitability of the property; (e) the owner of the property has an alternative project for the use of the project, the execution of which is shown to start within six months ; (f) the DGTF or the owner of the property have a firm offer for the alienation or costly assignment of that which is generating revenue above that would result from the acceptance of the proposal of the tenderer. 7 — If the basis for the rejection of the proposal is one of the points (e) and (f) of the previous paragraph and the alternative operation does not take place within six months of the decision of DGTF, the tenderer shall have the right to request the re-evaluation of the proposal without the same grounds for rejection being invoked. 8 — the act of disregarding the proposal shall be made available to the member of the Government responsible for the treasury area. Article 18. the Legal Representative without prejudice to the hearing referred to in Article 16. the and of any rights to the consideration incurred by the tenderer, DGTF acts as legal representative of the owner of the property in the decision-making acts of the proposal and others that are necessary in the management of the buildings. Article 19. Form 1 — The favourable, express or silent decision of DGTF is quite a title for the tenderer to assume the use of the property and initiate the execution of the project. 2 — If the order of the DGTF is subject to condition, the contract shall form with the acceptance expressed by the tenderer of the conditions laid down in it. Article 20. the Expiry for non-implementation of project 1 — If the tenderer does not initiate the project within six months of the order of DGTF, the temporary assignment shall expire. 2 — On a reasoned request from the tenderer, DGTF may extend the time limit provided for in the previous paragraph. Article 21 the constitution of duties or charges The tenderer may not constitute on the property burden or charges, except by prior and express authorization from DGTF. Article 22. the works of preservation and rehabilitation of the property The acceptance by DGTF of the proposal implies the authorization to the proposer to carry out the works of conservation, rehabilitation or modification of the property that consists of descriptive memory integrated in the project. Article 23. the Financial Scheme of Allocation 1 — The temporary transfer of the property is in accordance with the principle of the burden enshrined in Article 54. that of Decree-Law No 280 / 2007 of 7 August, considering the assessment provided for in Article 15. the 2 — Counterfeiting of the tenderer may be carried out in one or more of the following ways: (a) the conduct by the tenderer of investments in conservation or rehabilitation works and which are incorporated into the property; (b) payment of income; (c) the delivery to the State of part of the revenue obtained with the exploitation of the property. 3 — In the event that the transfer is made solely by making investment in the property, the period of assignment shall be fixed according to the relationship between the current value of the property provided for in the assessment referred to in Article 15. the and the volume of investment in work to be carried out, plus a maximum period of three years to carry out the work. (b) 70 % for the owner of the property after the value of the investment is amortised. Article 24. the term of assignment of use 1 — The transfer of property shall be the maximum duration of 50 years. 2 — The DGTF may determine a period of less than the duration of the assignment proposed by the tenderer, on the basis of a relevant drawback to the public interest of the duration proposed by the tenderer and in the extent of the period determined by it for the depreciation of the investment made by the tenderer. 3 — The advance resolution of the concession by DGTF implies communication to the tenderer in advance of at least 60 days per year missing for the end of the contract and compensation for the investment made and not yet amortised. Chapter IV Final provisions Article 25. This Act shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following its publication. Article 26. the Subsidiary Regime In everything that is not specifically regulated in this Act, the provisions of the public real estate scheme, approved by Decree-Law No 280/2007 of 7 August 2007 shall apply in its current wording. ANNEX II ( referred to in Article 41 ). o-B) Transitional income allowance scheme to be allocated to less-income tenants Article 1. the object and scope The present law establishes an income allowance scheme to be allocated to tenants belonging to family aggregates with lower incomes, with lease contracts for housing. Article 2 Definitions 1 — For the purposes of this Act: (a) « Family aggregate » shall be regarded as the whole of persons constituted by the tenant and persons who, in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 (4) and (5). that of the IRS Code, with the necessary adaptations, integrate it. ( b) « RAB » means gross annual income as defined in Article 3. that of Decree-Law No 156 / 2015 of 10 August; ( c) « RABC », the corrected annual gross income defined in accordance with Article 4. ( d) « Return » means the monthly value of the remuneration due by the landlord for the enjoyment of housing; ( e ) « RMNA » means the annual national minimum remuneration in accordance with the New Urban Rent Scheme approved by Law 6 / 2006 of 27 February in its current wording; ( f ) « Effort rate » means the percentage of the RABC for the payment of the income of the respective year. 2 — For the purposes of point (a) of the previous paragraph, where the tenant does not reside in the place, temporarily or permanently, for reasons of illness or detention in social support establishments or equivalents, the total number of persons referred to in the previous numbers remaining on the leased place shall be considered as family aggregated by the tenant. 3 — The family aggregate, the RNA and other relevant elements for the determination of the RABC are related to the calendar year prior to the act to which the RABC declaration is directed, without prejudice to the fact that, in the case of this one being necessary to prove the RABC earlier, the information may be reported to the different calendar year. Chapter I Income allowance Section I General provisions Article 3. the Access Requirements 1 — You are entitled to the award of income allowance under this Act for leases with rental contracts for housing purposes, duly registered with the Tax Authority, which constitute their permanent housing and which meet the following requirements: (a) Affix income which implies that the RABC of the respective family aggregate is taxed up to 6. (b) have an effort rate equal to or greater than 33 % of RABC; (d) be more than 18 years on the date of conclusion of the lease contract. 2 — It is also a condition for the allocation of the allowance that: (a) the value of the income is within the maximum income values provided for in Article 10 ( a ). that of Decree-Law No 68 / 2019, of 22 May, and of Portarias No 176 / 2019, of 22 May, and 176 / 2019, of 6 June. (b) the type and area of the lease covered by the contract referred to in the above number are appropriate in relation to the size of the family aggregate. Article 4 Exclusions 1 — There is no place for the allocation of income allowance where any of the following situations occur: (a) It is not possible, on grounds of charge to the tenant or elements of his or her family aggregate, to access the information necessary for the calculation of his or her RABC, in particular where the necessary authorisation is not granted for access to his or her tax data or for the processing of pensions; ( b) The tenant shall not be in the place of his or her permanent residence, without prejudice to Article 2 ( 2 ). (c) the renter shall rent or lease the renter in any capacity, in whole or in part, even if authorised by the owner for that purpose; 2 — In the case of point (d) of the previous paragraph, the tenant shall demonstrate that the property is not suitable for satisfying the housing purpose of the family aggregate or is not in minimum living conditions, preferably by means of a document issued by the competent public services according to the territory and subject matter, in particular municipal services. Article 5. the requirement and procedure for the award of grant 1 — The tenant requires, at the Social Security Institute, I.P. ( ISS, I.P. ) or the municipality of the rental area, in the cases provided for in paragraph 7, the allocation of the income allowance, and the application must be properly instructed with the required documents and necessary for its assessment. 2 — The model of the application, its form of delivery, the necessary instructional documents and the procedures relating to the receipt, analysis and evaluation of applications shall be established by the authorities of the Government responsible for the areas of housing and social security, taking into account in particular the provisions of Article 28. o -A of Decree-Law No 135 / 99 of 22 April, in its current wording. 3 — The application for an income allowance may be submitted up to three months after notification of the lease contract to the Tax Administration or within three months prior to the termination or renewal of the contract. 4 — Social security services shall establish the procedure for each application for the award of the income allowance and, within 15 days of the date of submission of the income allowance or, if not properly instructed, of the date of delivery of the last of the elements necessary for its instruction, shall send to ISS, I.P. the relevant information for final decision-making of the application. 5 — ISS, I.P. decide on the application for income allowance within 15 days from the date of dispatch of the application by the social security services. 6 — The decision on the application for an income allowance shall be notified to the applicant. 7 — ISS, I.P. may conclude agreements with municipalities for the delegation of powers provided for in this Act in accordance with Law No 50 / 2018 of 16 August by transferring to them their respective funds. 8 — The municipalities may also decide to supplement the amount of the income allowance, based on their own resources, by communicating it to ISS, I.P. , to which they shall transfer the respective amount. Article 6. the decision of application 1 — Without prejudice to other facts determining the indifference in legal terms, there is a failure to grant income in the following situations: (a) any of the conditions of access referred to in Article 5 shall not be proved. ( b) There is a cause of exclusion in accordance with Article 4. the 2 — The application shall be granted in accordance with the limits of the allowance to be allocated as defined in Article 11. the 3 — The deferral of the application for income allowance shall take effect from the first day of the month following the end of the period for the decision of the application for income benefit, if the income updated at that date is due, or on the first day of the month on which it is due. Article 7. the lease allowance The lease allowance is financial support, granted to the tenant in the form of a non-refundable monthly grant, relating to the amount of income and intended to support him to maintain his permanent residence in the lease. Article 8. the amount of the lease allowance 1 — The amount of the lease allowance corresponds to 25 % of the income value, limited to the maximum income values calculated in accordance with Article 10 ( 1 ). the Decree-Law No 68 / 2019, of 22 May, and of Portaria No 176 / 2019, of 6 June. 2 — When the tenant is under 35 years of age, the income allowance is increased by 8, 34 percentage points as a percentage of the income value, while the tenant does not exceed that age limit. Article 9. the duration of the lease allowance 1 — The lease allowance is granted for a period of up to 24 months, renewable for equal and successive periods. 2 — The renewal provided for in the previous paragraph is required by the tenant and depends only on the maintenance of the assumptions of the allocation of the allowance and the non-occurrence of any cause of extinction. 3 — The first payment of the lease allowance shall be due from the date on which the decision of the application takes effect in accordance with Article 6 (3) and (4). the or, in case of renewal, from the first day of the month following the end of the previous period. Article 10. the maintenance of the right to lease allowance in force 1 — The death of the tenant to whom the grant for lease in force has been assigned shall not prejudice the maintenance of the right to such benefit by the person to whom the lease is transferred in accordance with Articles 57. o is 58. the Law No 6 / 2006 of 27 February, as amended by Laws Nos 31 / 2012 of 14 August and 79 / 2014 of 19 December, provided that the transmitter meets the conditions for the maintenance of the grant. 2 — For the purposes of the previous paragraph, the consignee shall notify the occurrence and require the maintenance of the income allowance to social security services in the rented housing area within a maximum of 60 days from the date of the death of the tenant under the expiry penalty of the right to benefit. 3 — The decision on the application for maintenance of the allowance shall take effect from the month following the date of the death of the tenant. Article 11. the termination of the lease allowance The lease allowance shall cease before the end of any of the duration periods referred to in Article 9. where: (a) the lease contract for which the benefit is paid is terminated; (b) the expiry of the entitlement to the death allowance of the tenant shall be verified without the possibility of a person entitled to the maintenance of the allowance in accordance with the preceding article or the period of time set out in this Act for compulsory communications; (c) the conditions for the award of the allowance provided for in Article 3. Stop checking. Section II Non-compliance and supervision Article 12. the non-compliance by the beneficiary of the income allowance with any obligations relating to access and maintenance of the allowance, in particular the failure to provide legally required evidence required by the ISS, I.P. , within the time limit set for that purpose, or the breach of the contract under which the grant is granted, determines the revocation or cancellation of the award decision, with due legal consequences. Article 13. the False Declarations The provision of false statements under the administrative procedure concerning the award of the allowance is punishable, in general terms of the criminal law. Article 14. The ISS, I.P, is responsible for monitoring. the monitoring of compliance with the provisions of this Act by the beneficiaries of the benefit. Article 15. management and cooperation between public entities 1 — It is up to ISS, I.P. the management of the allocation of income allowances, including analysis and decision on applications for the award and renewal of the grant or modification of its modality, and communications with the other public services in this field preferably made through electronic communication. 2 — Within and for the purposes of the provisions of the previous paragraph, the ISS, I.P. it promotes linkage with the competent public authorities and services to confirm the conditions on which the allocation, maintenance or modification of the income allowance depends, and may access information from the tax administration and the pension processing entities relevant to that purpose, in particular to verify whether the RABC of the leaser's family aggregate is greater than 6. the IRS step. 3 — Access to and exchange of information, in particular confirmation and information on the data referred to in the previous paragraph, shall be made through the use of the information media, always ensuring the protection of the data concerned. Chapter II Final and transitional provisions Article 16. the charges 1 — It is the State's responsibility, through the ISS, I.P. , to ensure the management and granting of the allowances provided for in this Act, by means of budgetary allocation to be entered annually in the respective budget. 2 — The funds necessary for the monthly payment of the financial support provided for in this Act shall be transferred monthly by the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance for the account to be indicated by ISS, I.P. , at the request of that entity, which shall carry out transfers of the funds corresponding to the said financial support to the bank account identified by the beneficiaries until the 8th day of the month on which it relates. Article 17. access to data The allocation, renewal and maintenance of the income allowance depends on the authorization of the applicant and members of the family aggregate, for access by the ISS, I.P. the information of the tax administration and pension processors that is relevant for the purpose of awarding the benefit. Article 18. the duration of the benefit and evaluation of results 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraph, the income allowance may be applied for until the end of 2026. 2 — After four years of the entry into force of this Law, the conditions of the rental market for housing purposes and the impact of this scheme should be assessed in order to reassess their need and scope. Article 19. the replacement of the Porta 65 1 programme — The start of the income allowance provided for in this diploma replaces the Porta 65 programme, regulated by Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September, amended by Decree-Law No 61 -A / 2008 of 28 March, by Decree-Law No 43 / 2010 of 30 April, by Law No 87 / 2017 of 18 August, by Law No 114 / 2017 of 29 December, and by Decree-Law No 90 - C / 2022 of 30 December. 2 — The support granted under Gate 65 shall, on 1 January 2024, become the income allowance provided for in this diploma, keeping the beneficiaries the support in accordance with existing conditions and conditions. Article 20. Entry into force 1 — This law shall enter into force on the first day of the month following its publication. 2 — Income allowance may be required and allocated from the date of entry into force of the State Budget Act for 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u580	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 4, of the PSD, in the part where Annex III is added. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] It was as follows: ANNEX III ( referred to in Article 41 ). o-C ) Chapter I General provisions Article 1. the object This Act approves exceptional measures to mitigate the impact of aggravating interest on housing by simplifying debt rescheduling as well as changing variable and fixed rate arrangements for credit contracts. Article 2 the scope This Act applies to credit contracts for the acquisition or construction of permanent own housing, covered by Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June with variable interest rates, concluded with credit institutions, financial corporations and branches of credit institutions and financial institutions to be operated in Portugal. Article 3 the fees and emoluments The acts resulting from the application of this diploma shall be exempt from the payment of fees and emoluments, in particular in respect of the registration of the premises. Article 4 o Duty of information The entities referred to in Article 2. they advertise on their websites, instead of highlighting, and on bank statements the possibility of customers unilaterally require debt rescheduling, due to the rise of interest rates, under this law. Chapter II Debt rescheduling Article 5. the conditions for rescheduling of debt 1 — borrowers with credit contracts covered by this Act may request debt rescheduling in part of the benefit increases during the period in force of this measure resulting from the positive change in the reference interest rate underlying the contract. 2 — For the purposes of the previous paragraph, rescheduling operations shall allow the value corresponding to the increase in interest benefits to be redistributed for the time at which the reduction in the rate of effort or the main benefits occurs, providing the borrower with a fixed monthly benefit during the period of application of the measure. 3 — In any event, in particular if the reduction in the rate of effort or the main benefits does not occur, the debt securities must be paid in the last five years of the repayment period of the principal loan, without prejudice to the fact that, at the request of the borrower, the remaining amount may be paid, at the end of this period, in an additional final benefit. 4 — Debt securities subject to rescheduling may only be capitalised, with reference to the time when they are due, at the Euribor rate applicable to the main contract or, if the public guarantee provided for in the following Article is applied, at the interest rate implied in the public debt of the Republic disclosed by the Treasury and Public Debt Management Agency - IGCP, E.P.E. 5 — The rescheduling of debt pursuant to this Article shall not give rise to any: (a) contractual default; (b) activation of early maturity clauses; (d) ineffectiveness or termination of guarantees, including the effectiveness and validity of insurance, bail or leases; and (e) worsening of the contractual spread. 6 — In addition to the provisions in the previous paragraph, the rescheduling of debt cannot result in any specific registration or marking of customers as restructurings or risk clients due to that change in the Bank of Portugal's Credit Responsibilities Centre or through similar internal control mechanisms used by institutions referred to in Article 2. Article 6. the public guarantee 1 — Debt securities subject to rescheduling may benefit from personal guarantees provided by the State and by other public legal persons, within the maximum limits for the granting of personal guarantees provided for in the State Budget Act, 2 — Debts whose payment is made through the additional provision referred to in paragraph 3 of the preceding article may be eligible to cover part or all of that value, depending, in particular, on the period and amount of the debt subject to rescheduling. 3 — The Government shall, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, lay down the general rules and conditions for granting the guarantees provided for in this Article. 4 — The availability of public guarantees remains until 31 December 2024, subject to assessment and possible extension in the previous quarter. Chapter III Change of variable and fixed rate schemes Article 7. the change in variable and fixed rates of credit contracts for permanent own housing 1 — The entities referred to in Article 2. it is obliged to offer its customers an alternative credit to housing in the form of a fixed rate or benefit, either in the new contracts or in the contracts in force by means of a contractual change not subject to payment of any commission, penalties, taxes, fees or other forms of taxation, or to any form of internal or external marking of the borrower. 2 — Up to the end of 2024 the entities referred to in the previous paragraph report quarterly to the Banco de Portugal and to the Competition Authority information on: 3 — Within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Banco de Portugal shall approve the model of the reporting forms provided for in the previous paragraph. 4 — Without prejudice to the preservation of banking and commercial secrecy and its other regulatory, prudential and behavioural supervisory and competition control competences, the Banco de Portugal and the Competition Authority shall publish their autonomous evaluations six-monthly on the evolution and basis of banking practices in relation to the evolution of the use of fixed and variable interest rates in Portugal. Chapter IV Final provisions Article 8. the supervision The Banco de Portugal shall monitor compliance with the provisions of this Law and, where appropriate, the application of its fines and ancillary penalties. Article 9. the Sanctions Scheme 1 — Failure to fulfil the obligations laid down in this Act or in its rules constitutes a punishable counter-ordination pursuant to Article 210. the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( RGICSF), approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, in its current wording. 2 — The violation of Article 3 ( 6 ). the financial institution constitutes a punishable counter-order practice in accordance with Article 211. the RGICSF. Article 10. This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u581	There is therefore no place for the overall final vote, since no proposal for an amendment has been adopted. In this way, we will proceed to the confirmation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 81 / XV, by electronic vote. Since I had already turned off the machine myself, I'm going to give some time, instead of being up the rope to be up the machine. [[Pause.]] There is a technical detail: we do not need to make a new quorum check, which is done automatically in the voting process. So we have quorum. [[Pause.]] If any Member or Member did not register in the quorum check, she cannot vote now. Is that it? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]] We are all adapting to new times, so let's see if logic and technique are compatible. If all of you. Members can vote now, which seems to me to be an obvious right, which means that you are. Members who have not registered—if any happened to any—in the quorum verification now have to register, but for that, a quorum verification process has to be opened. Or am I going to look wrong? The teachers of the economic faculties — at least these — accompany? Oh, my God! Follow. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u582	Or, then, sign the presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u583	Let's just do a little consultation here... [[Pause.]] It seems that for once, economic faculties can convince law faculties and we will proceed to a new quorum check.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u584	It's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u585	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u586	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u587	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u588	Mr President, I am sorry, but with this extensive vote, however, I noticed that there were two errors in the sense of voting. I wanted to ask when we could make that correction. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u589	The honourable Member may point them out by now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u590	To facilitate, on page 75 of the script, in the two proposals submitted by the NAP and the Left Block, the addition of an article 48. o -A, the sense of vote of the Liberal Initiative is against. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u591	Be registered. [[Pause.]] I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and we will publish the results. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum, so we shall proceed to the vote, by the lifts and the seats and by means of the electronic vote, of the confirmation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 81 / XV — adopts measures in the field of housing, and makes several legislative amendments. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, with 119 votes in favour (PS), 87 against (68 PSD, 6 CH, 4 IL, 6 PCP and 3 BE) and 2 abstentions (1 PAN and 1 L).]] We will now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 789 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Removes airsoft devices from the Arms Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP and the NAP were rejected.]] Mr Rui Tavares was asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u592	I am very sorry, Mr President, that I will have to leave the session on travel grounds, but I would like to say that the Free vote from here is all in favour of the exception of the draft resolution. [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u593	I'm sorry, sir, but you can't do that. From the moment you leave the Chamber, your vote does not count. We understand the reasons, it's just to explain how this works technically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u594	There's got to be a can! This degrades democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u595	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u596	Mr President, I am sorry, but apparently the system did not register my vote and it was therefore to confirm that I voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u597	Have you voted against removing airsoft devices from weapons or against confirming the decree?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u598	I voted against the confirmation of the decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u599	All right. We shall then proceed to the vote on the Bill No 85 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u600	There is no vote in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u601	Yes, thank you very much, Your Honor. Logically, in legislative authorizations there is no place for discussion in the specialty unless someone suggests it. We can therefore vote together on the Bill No 85 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create the database of inhibitions and dismissals and to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1151, in general, in speciality and in overall final voting. Let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH and the NAP and IL, the CFP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u602	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u603	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u604	Mr President, I am sorry to request, in relation to the previous vote, the waiver of final wording and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u605	I'm asking the House if there's any objection. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, which is why they are granted. The following is the vote on the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), and I wonder if we can vote as a whole in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u606	Mr President, the general vote must be separated from the vote in the speciality and the overall final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u607	You might change your mind! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u608	Okay, thank you very much. I'm sorry I was with a splash in my mouth, but I was having sugar problems. Let us then proceed to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121, in part concerning cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH and the PAN, against the CFP and the BE and the abstention from the IL.]] With no objection, we shall vote, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121, in part concerning cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] Mrs. Susana Amador asked for the floor because she wants to ask for a final release?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u609	Exactly, Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u610	I see no objection, so it's approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u611	What about the time limit for complaints?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u612	It has to be said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u613	Mr President, when he said it was for the same purpose, he meant that it was for the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for complaints. I mean this because there was a doubt here by the Communist Party bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u614	I wonder if there's any objection.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u615	It's clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u616	Precious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u617	All right. We shall then vote for the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2022. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 832 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the remunerative valuation and wage reform of the special security career of the Judicial Police. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the PAN and the abstention from the CFP.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 816 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Enlargement of extraordinary financial support for the agricultural and livestock sector to small farmers and producers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP and the BE and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 818 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Completion of Cova da Beira and the Southern Gardunha recreation projects and maintenance of existing infrastructures. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CH, the PCP and the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the IL, the PAN and the Member of the PS Tiago Soares Monteiro.]] The vote on draft resolution No 819 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enhance national wool and particularly native wool. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP and the BE and the abstention from the PSD.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 811 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Establishs the system of State participation in the price of thermal treatments prescribed in primary health care of the National Health Service ( SNS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]] The vote was taken by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, and I would therefore ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the final parts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u618	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I note that the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Central Court Cable of the Port — Case No 13608 / 21.1T8PRT —, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Gilberto António Sousa dos Anjos to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u619	Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u620	I also note that the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Local Court of Barcelos Cible — Case No 137 / 21.2T8BCL —, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies has decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Deputies Anabela Pimenta de Lima de Dios Real to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u621	Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u622	Finally, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Central Court of Aveiro — Case No 3738 / 18.2T8AVR —, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Miguel Rocha da Cruz to present a statement as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-22.u623	Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]] The next plenary session is on Wednesday, 27 September, consisting of political statements. Good weekend and thank you very much for today's effort. [[It was 15 hours and 26 minutes.]]
