ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I am going to announce the term of office of Mrs Cláudia Bento, elected by the Social Democratic Party, in the electoral circle of Vila Real, discontinuing the functions of Mr André Marques, with effect from 14 December 2023. It is also reported that no opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on this resumption will be produced. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 983 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which dropped to 1. the Commission in connection with 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 961 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which dropped to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u3	Mrs. Members, I turn to the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 97 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Doctors: « Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1 — I address you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 97 / XV. 2 — Without prejudice to the fulfilment of the obligations of the Portuguese State vis-à-vis the European Union under the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which are not concerned, and taking into account the difficulties inherent in the legislative process which led to the adoption of this Decree, marked by both honourable Members, in their explanations of vote as well as by the Professional Orders consulted, it is important to consider the specific issues which, in relation to the Decree under review, justify its return to the Assembly of the Republic without promulgation. 3 — In the case of Decree No 97 / XV, and in accordance with the position transmitted by the Order of Doctors, the Statute does not ensure the autonomy of the Order, in particular as regards the competence of the Colleges of Specialties. In the words of the Medical Order: “The principle of self - regulation is called into question, establishing a relationship in the realm of hierarchy. ” 4 — On the other hand, by removing the Order of Physicians from an essential intervention with regard to the recognition and suitability and their training capacity of the services, as well as the definition of the training content for each specialty, purely technical aspects, the quality of training for these professionals in the future and consequently the quality of medical care and the safety of patients, as well as the SNS' own stabilized organisation. 5 — Finally, it is also not appropriate for the new formulation of the medical act, and this objection deserves the order of doctors, insofar as there appear to be overlaps in the competences of the various health professionals, with the inherent risk to the provision of health care to patients. 6 — In this regard, I have decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, Decree No 97 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Medical Order. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. I now turn to the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 107 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Advocates : « Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1 — I address you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 107 / XV. 2 — Without prejudice to the obligations of the Portuguese State before the European Union within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which are not put at issue, and taking into account the difficulties inherent in the legislative process which led to the adoption of this decree, marked by both Members in their explanations of vote and by the Professional Orders consulted, it is important to consider the specific issues which, in relation to the decree under review, justify their return to the Assembly of the Republic without promulgation. 3 — Indeed, in the case of Decree No 107 / XV, and as referred to in the Order of Advocates in their publicly expressed position, a maximum period of 12 months for the internship is established, as is the result of Article 195. o. This stage is clearly insufficient, in the opinion of the Advocates' Order, so much so that in the whole EU only three Member States have stages with the same or lower duration. It would have been possible for the legislator, as provided for in Law No. 12 / 2023 of 28 March, to provide for a longer period, and may go up to 18 months, compatible with the training required for a lawyer in the public interest of his profession. 4 — With regard to remuneration, the provisions of the decree are far from the provisions of Law No. 12 / 2023, without the provision of a public co-financing mechanism, which can only constitute a barrier to access to the profession. 5 — Finally, the possibility now granted to other non- lawyers to practice acts before the Advocates themselves seems to introduce a possibility of unfair competition in so far as these professionals are not restricted by the duty to pay quotas and the advertising limitations which they impose on lawyers. 6 — In this regard, I have decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, Decree No 107 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Advocates' Order. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. I now turn to the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 111 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Nurses: « Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1 — I address you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). that of the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 111 / XV : 2 — Without prejudice to the fulfilment of the obligations of the Portuguese State before the European Union, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which are not concerned, and taking into account the difficulties inherent in the legislative process which led to the adoption of this Decree, marked by both Members in their explanations of vote and by the Professional Orders consulted, it is important to consider the specific issues which, in relation to the decree under consideration, justify their return to the Assembly of the Republic without promulgation. 3 — In the case of Decree No 111 / XV, and in accordance with the position transmitted by the Order of Nurses, the Statute does not ensure the desirable functional complementarity of health professions, without the basis of the existence of reserved acts, and the practices must be exercised in complementarity, in the best interest of the beneficiaries of care, without the provision of care in a compartmentalized manner. 4 — Moreover, the Statute does not seem to safeguard the public interest nor to contribute to the proper functioning of the institutions and, in particular, of the National Health Service. 5 — In this regard, I have decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, Decree No 111 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Nurses. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. We now move on to point four of our agenda, set by the NAP, on the theme « animal protection ». To submit Law Nos 412 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the scheme of fault justified at work for death or assistance to pet, 456 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the holding and training of pet animals, prohibiting the marketing and use of « shock collars » and « strangulation collars », amending Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October 2001 and 662 / XV/1. a ( PAN) — Recognizes the figure of the Community animal and promotes the realization of an extraordinary campaign to sterilize errant animals as well as the Draft Resolution No 945 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Taking up extraordinary constitutional review powers by the Assembly of the Republic to ensure the consecration of the protection of animals in the Constitution, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u4	Ex. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Ex. Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members, Members present here in the galleries, Social Communication and other Officials of this House: This is the first authoritative agenda of the NAP in this legislature, which is approaching wide steps of its end, and in a complex political context, the NAP, taking into account the change of the regime and the rights acquired, could not effectively stop bringing the debate a subject that is very expensive to it and that is in the fundamental genesis of its party, which is animal protection. There is today a clear social cry around these matters and advances that over the years have been made by this House and that cannot be called into question. at a time when our country lives a decisive moment in the field of animal protection, a true or nothing in respect of the ill-treatment and crimes committed against pet animals, precisely because of the risk of being declared, by the Constitutional Court, as unconstitutional, with general mandatory force, a law which was passed in this House, and later revised — with broad consensus, even at the time, of all the political forces represented in this House — when the fire in the Serra da Agrela that killed more than 70 pets is in fact imperative that the steps that still have to be taken are discussed. The risk of animal protection is very real. We see a step back of almost a decade and that is completely out of line with the advances made in other countries. We can see until Portugal return to the legal framework that lasted until 2014, in which killing or mistreating a pet was not criminalized, and see the protection of those beings who are recognized, until the preamble to the European Convention for the Protection of Pets of Company, as having a special relationship with the human being. If this vision of 3. the section of the Constitutional Court revenge, we will see crimes like the case of the bitch Pantufa — in which a guardian felt in the right of, the cold blood, to smash a pregnant dog and to let die, as well as to lay his babies to the trash can, also abandoned to their fate and death — to pass completely unpunished. While in Portugal we have this debate, in Brazil and in the Australian State of Victoria, progress is being discussed, such as the recognition of victims of domestic violence of the right to keep pets. Here, we continue the discussion of setbacks. When the domestic violence figures hit records in our country and there are studies that tell us that 89 % of the victims of domestic violence saw their animal being killed or abused by the companion, we also risk being no longer criminal cases like that of the Roxy bitch, who was killed by her guardian's boyfriend, having been slashed and placed in garbage bags, in a context of domestic violence, not only constituting a barbarous crime against pets, but also a terrible domestic violence crime against a person. This shows that there is a clear and unequivocal link between animal rights and human rights, between the escalation of violence against animals and the escalation of violence against people. On the day we were awarding the Human Rights Prize and we heard, in the first person, the experts talk about the importance of reaching out to the most vulnerable and alone people, and so many times the link that exists between these people, as we know, are animals, protecting animals — we cannot forget in this debate! — is to protect people. Parliament cannot, therefore, stand by when a legal solution, which, either in its original version or in its subsequent amendments, has deserved the consensus of almost everyone in this Parliament, is being challenged in this way and when the door is opened to unprecedented backwardness in animal protection. These setbacks are already felt, whether by the time the Public Prosecutor files processes declaring — and wrong — the unconstitutionality of the norm, when the Relation also does so, or when the crimes are not even investigated, and so there is even an obstruction to justice. While some feel that we should wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court, only on the basis of the decisions made in 3. the Section of the Constitutional Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office has already filed — I will refer to — 1000 investigations of cases of ill-treatment that have come to your knowledge. And several have been the court decisions of archiving, whether in first instance courts, or in higher courts. However, in the face of the risk of seeing a criminal humanism in animal protection being replaced by a license to abuse and kill pet animals, the NAP does not accept — nor does it have any cross-arms — that, in commodism, we can blow up on the side and that Parliament does nothing to stop this situation. And it is precisely because we do not accept this commodism and we do not accept that the public debate takes place around setbacks that, once again, we bring to the centre of the parliamentary debate the issues that matter, in matters of animal protection. But we do not delude ourselves, this debate is also about people, people and their protection. In fact, since the NAP has entered Parliament it has always been this way. It was thanks to the NAP that the animals began to occupy an important place in the State Budget. Since 2017, we have managed to make the few and successive State budgets that had funds that barely amounted to EUR 2 million, now to more than EUR 13 million, having already exceeded the more than EUR 40 million allocated to animal protection; that is, an increase of almost 14 times. It is also thanks to the NAP that next year zoophyll associations will be able to have zero value added tax in the purchase of food. It was also thanks to the NAP that fiscal incentives were created for companies and citizens to be able to provide food to these associations, which was essential at a time when inflation was leading to the financial strangulation of these entities. It was also thanks to the NAP that, in the 2024 State Budget, the right to health was strengthened — to one health and not only to look at human health and the distant planet of animal health — by pet animals, starting with the provision of EUR 2 million for the creation of public veterinary services, including the creation of a public veterinary hospital. And so the animals held by deprived families were protected, with the creation of such instruments as well, a measure of social charity, along with the creation of animal food banks. It was also thanks to the NAP that we took steps to put an end to the use of wild animals in circus shows and it was achieved, with a voluntary delivery program that, in just five years, elephants, tigers or lions were no longer stars in a cruel spectacle that could almost end their days in shrines. It was also thanks to the NAP that in 2021 we were able to ban the anachronic practice of shooting at pigeons, a barbarous and cruel slaughter that, in each sport test, inflicted suffering and killed hundreds of animals. Thus, this House made our country make a civilizational progress. It happened 100 years later than in England, but thanks to the PAN, we managed to do it. We also saw the birth of such important measures as the right for homeless people or victims of domestic violence to take their animals to shelters, or the obligation of livestock holdings that did not have fire detection systems to pass on to them. It was not this creek, this Parliament would not have debated such important issues for animal protection as: the extension of legal protection to all animals; the end of the transport of live animals; the prohibition of discrimination of guardians of pets in access to lease; the end of public financing of the Tauromachia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u5	Olé!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u6	... that public funding is essential for other areas of more than EUR 6 million; the negative impact of the en route on animal welfare is held every year;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u7	That's a lie! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u8	... and until the end of slaughter for the purposes of extraction and importation of skins in Portugal and the European Union. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress made in recent years because of this action, in today's debate we want to talk about the much that is still to be done in animal protection. In this way, we give this House the opportunity, until its dissolution, to adopt solutions to these various problems, in order to protect animals and people as well. Firstly, we cannot accept that animal protection continues on a limbo and that it has to wait for the entry into office of a new Parliament — perhaps in April, or later, we do not know —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u9	There's no PAN anymore! The NAP's over at the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u10	...to achieve a legal solution that prevents the Constitutional Court from declaring unconstitutional the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals. That is why we put to the vote two motions for a resolution. On the one hand, we want to open an extraordinary constitutional review process to include in the Constitution the duty of animal protection and ensure recognition of the intrinsic value of all animals while living beings with sensitivity. With this amendment, there can be no doubt whether or not there is a legal good protected by the Constitution. What we want is that it actually exists, as in Germany or Switzerland. I recall that this is a subject which has brought together broad consensus in the process of ordinary constitutional review which we have initiated, but that we will not conclude because of the dissolution of Parliament. If there is any political will, today the ladies and gentlemen. Members have even the opportunity to demonstrate. The extraordinary constitutional review allows us to reach a consensus on this matter, without conditioning future revisions. So let us know how to listen to civil society and not delay this decision because, when it is time, it may be too late. in this same sense, I remember that the Assembly received at least three petitions, which brought together more than 90 000 signatures, in which civil society called on us to include animal protection in the Constitution and to maintain the criminal protection of animals in the Criminal Code. Cases such as that of Santo Tirso, cases such as that of knight João Moura, who left the animals starving, or cases like that of the Fairy bitch, who died stabbed, cannot and should not be unpunished. On the other hand, we will propose a revision of the Penal Code extending legal protection to all animals, and not only to pets, as is currently the case, allowing there to be no discrimination on the basis of the species, which is absolutely incomprehensible. Secondly, we do not comply with the fact that our labour legislation continues to deviate from the advances made in recent years in relation to animal protection, since it disregards the suffering of a guardian when he loses a pet. In the middle of the 21st century, there cannot continue to be workers who have to mark holidays to be able to accompany the animal at the time of their death or even when they have to « fall asleep », or simply for medical-veterinary follow-up, when we criminalize situations in which no medical-veterinary treatment is provided, and thus there is an incomprehensible legislative paradox. For this reason, we propose that work should be enshrined in one day's labor law for the death of the pet, but also that workers may be rightly absent from work to assist their animals in the event of an emergency illness or accident, which the trade union institutions have already followed favourably. Thirdly, we want to seal the marketing and use of shock collars and strangulation collars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u11	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting. I wanted to hear it and I'm not getting it. I ask for silence so that you can hear the speech of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u12	It's the PS malt! Go for a walk! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u13	Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to the marketing and use of shock collars or strangular collars, we speak of collars that can cause serious injury or even asphyxiation of animals and leave serious sequelae, such as aggressive, compulsive, injury, anxiety and phobia, among others. I mean necklaces that exist only to cause pain to the animal, as a form of control. Continued use of these glues is a real challenge to existing legal regimes in the field of animal protection in general, and pet animals in particular, which has already been discussed by the veterinary community, so following the example of countries such as Wales and approving the NAP initiative is an imperative of legal coherence. Fourthly, we want to recognise the figure of the Community animal by promoting an extraordinary sterilization campaign. This is about correcting a gap that persists in our legislation, which does not allow a collective person to register the animal, but which then establishes nothing about the situations in which there are animals hosted by schools, associations, prisons, volunteer firefighters or even here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with our parliamentary colony and the well-known parliamentary cats Tobias or Miau Maria. The path that the NAP proposes is to ensure that these animals cease to be nobody's animals and there is a responsibility for the communities that hold them and take care of them, as we do in this Common House. Fifth and last, on Friday, we will bring the vote on an initiative aimed at regulating the brokerage and housing of pets in balconies and ensuring the implementation of a national contingency plan. It is not acceptable that we continue to have animals dying because they cannot escape in case of fire. Only in the fire of Castro Marim in 2021 were 14 animals who died because they could not escape. In the fire of Palmela, in 2022, seven animals were killed because they could not get rid of the currents that were inflicted on them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u15	What about Pedrogan? Oh, my God! How many died in Pedrogan? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u16	Recently, in the crowd in Loures, there were at least 10 animals who died drowned because they didn't have a chance of escape. This, in addition to the miracles of animals living an entire life condemned to perpetual imprisonment of a current from which they cannot be released. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, political life is made of choices, choices, and this Parliament has been called on several times to contribute to becoming a civilizational animal protection. Animal protection is today an undeniable cultural and ethical value of modern societies. For the NAP, not to follow initiatives like those we bring here is to position ourselves on the wrong side of history. Above all, it is to leave the animals and also the most deprived people, the associations and even the victims of domestic violence, in their extreme vulnerability, to the mercy of human cruelty that continues to fatten. Therefore, in order to conclude, in relation to the debate we bring here today and the initiatives we propose, I borrow the words of Martha Nussbaum: "We know that non-human animals are capable of a condigna existence. » It is difficult to specify what this phrase means, but it is relatively clear what it does not mean. The fact that humans act in a way that denies that existence seems to be a matter of justice and an urgent matter. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, unfortunately and more than ever, it is undoubtedly urgent that we take steps in animal protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u17	No one hits? Oh, my God! The PS doesn't hit hands? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u18	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. How do you want to answer? [[Pause.]] Having the honourable Member signal to the Bureau that he will reply together, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares to make the request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u19	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real brought us a debate that goes to many of the fundamental pillars of what the animal cause has defended in our country. Unfortunately... I say 'unfortunately' with some regret, because I have always been cultivating — me and others, including many Members and Members of the NAP — a parliamentary practice to consider that the animal cause is above the partisan causes. So, unfortunately, strangely even, because the Left Block never had this attitude toward the NAP, the NAP prevented us from also bringing the debate our initiatives...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u20	It's true! And so are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u21	...to make the debate on the animal cause richer, restricting its scope, transforming it not into a debate on the animal cause, which would, indeed, raise the parliamentary debate, but rather reducing it to a debate on the party cause, as was a large part of its intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u23	That's too bad! That's too bad! ... It is a bad service to the animal cause, because we must always extend our party borders more and not transform this just into a game of 'take-to-do' of political arguments — many of them swindled and many of which do not care about the animal cause. But this is not the case with today's debate. However, because it has transformed this debate into a party case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u24	Exceptionally good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u25	... I am obliged to ask about the responsibilities of the NAP, particularly with regard to safeguarding animal rights. We look at Madeira and we see that the NAP agreed to make a parliamentary agreement with the PSD and CDS. The PSD in particular, which has been ruling in Madeira since 25 April, has created a huge crisis in housing, fulfilling all Madeira's ideas, by giving permission for the construction of everything and something else. I repeat, everything and something else! Result: the price of housing in Madeira is prohibitive. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Salaries are very low and there is a huge social crisis. And we know - because those who follow the animal cause know - that when there is a social crisis are also the rights of the animals that are called into question, because the numbers of abandonment of pets are fired. However, what did the NAP do when it could have helped create an alternative for the first time in the democratic period? He gave the PSD his hand to maintain his policy of social crisis. We look at the Azores and see exactly the same. The government, which has the great plan for the Azores in support of livestock, which promotes up to the bull races in the Azores, had the Budget at risk. What did the electorate of the NAP do? He went running to the middle of the square, saying: "We are here to save the Budget, if necessary. And I ask him: where then are the rights of animals, the animal cause, when, in close proximity to power, the NAP gives up open hands to those who often question the right and the animal cause? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u26	To request clarification on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u27	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, regarding this debate, it seems to me that it is important to leave a previous note because someone has clearly politicized this debate, saying that perhaps it is necessary to make here an amnesia cure to the Left Block so that it should be remembered, and I can not fail to tell it, that a great author and promoter of animal rights legislation in this House was precisely the PSD. [[Laughing from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Now, it is important to make history when attempting to delete and suppress the very important role of a party such as the PSD in animal rights and animal cause. Having said this, because I refuse to politicize this debate in a crawling way, as you just did,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u28	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u29	... let's go to what is really important in this discussion: the animal cause. A cause with which, in fact, the PSD has always been committed, since it is very important to us. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must not fail to focus on the question of the extraordinary revision of the Constitution in this legislative package. And let me make you here a deep regret because animals also deserve more than cheap demagogy. We all know that an ordinary constitutional review is taking place, where all parties have joined together in one way or another for the protection of the animal case and also for the constitutional safeguard with which, in the meantime, we have found ourselves, because of the decisions that the Constitutional Court has taken — already three — and with the request and danger of the declaration of the general unconstitutionality of the rules on the criminalization of animal abuse. I remember that there was a great consensus among the parties that, as part of a constitutional review, we would find the best solution for this problem to be solved. Constitutional review that, I remember, is running right now. Unfortunately, because of the political circumstances we live in, this is an assembly whose dissolution has marked date. So, one month after the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, bring the issue of the animal cause to deceive all the people who care about it in this country — and I believe that the majority of the Portuguese people will be overwhelming — is not ethically serious, it is not responsible and it is even, let me tell you, almost unacceptable, because that cannot be done. What we are really interested in right now is we have time, and right now at the beginning of the legislature we will solve this problem. This is because the circumstances have surpassed us. Therefore, the question is whether the honourable Member will be available to deal with the real concern and problem of the animal cause, which is that we will resolve the situation right at the beginning of the next Parliament. The honourable Member knows this is the case. And he just doesn’t say it for lack of courage, to please the associations— telling them: “I’m here! The others are bad guys and they don't want to solve it. ' — and why, during the election period, this is not good for you! People deserve more. They deserve the truth and only the truth. That is to say, in the light of political circumstances, it is not possible to do so. Mrs. Member, are you available to admit that the NAP made a number out here today, knowing that you're fooling everyone? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u30	What about Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u31	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank both of you for your questions. I begin with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. I cannot fail to mention that, in terms of consistency, in particular with regard to the sense of vote or political positions, I am sorry that the Block also accompanied the CFP in the proposal for a reduction in the VAT of the Tauromachia by favourably voting on this initiative in this House. So, if we're talking about ideological coherence, let's also start with the decisions made in this House. You know, honourable Member, it would be very easy for the NAP to sit at the table with those who agree with us and not just those who disagree with our vision. But if we really want to make progress and progress in the causes we defend, this often means calling for political forces that do not agree with us, including political forces within the democratic spectrum, to call to the political debate table...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u33	It was not with the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition )!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u34	...and the NAP has made it very clear that there is a red line that will never make it possible. And we cannot confuse agreements of parliamentary incidence—such as the Left Block itself and the PCP have already had with the PS—with realities that have parliamentary incidence agreements in autonomous regions—and the NAP also respects autonomy—where there are neither bulldozers nor, for example, circuses with animals, because in Madeira there are not actually bulldozers or circuses, because for many years the NAP has ended with the circuses. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] With regard to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, I recall that our regional Member continues not only to defend the abolition of the Tauromachy, because both in one autonomous region and in the other there is a clear line that is defined: we will not make possible any kind of Budget that questions what are, from an ideological point of view, the agreed lines, either in the agreement of Parliamentary incidence, or in what the NAP defends. We are therefore quite clear on this matter. With regard to the question put by Mrs Emília Cerqueira, Mrs Deputies, I want to do here an exercise of memory. It is not the first time that the NAP brings the debate to an extraordinary draft revision of the Constitution. Not only is it the first time — the first was vetoed in the secretariat — as we have an ordinary review process, in which all political forces gave their consent for animal protection to be included in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u35	That's where it started!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u36	Therefore, there is political will to effectively approve an extraordinary revision project and thus ensure, within a time limit set at the Conference of Leaders, that all political forces can bring their proposals into play and we can protect animals. What is incomprehensible is that the PS and the PSD have made a proposal for the arrival, a political force of which we have often heard the ladies and gentlemen. Members say here that they are anti-democratic political forces, but then a democratic, constructive political force, which brings a proposal to this debate, is called populist, and hear here that it is ineffective, when we even bring other proposals,... [[Protests by members of the CH and the Member of the PS Pedro Delgado Alves.]] ... about which the honourable Member has not spoken, and that I am absolutely sure that they will make their way and that today we will leave far more advanced in animal protection matters. More: I hope that the PSD will honour the legacy of Antonio Maria Pereira and that it will not fail at the time of the vote on these initiatives, because the NAP will always be available to, in particular, to accept the contributions of all the political forces that may bring their proposed amendments. I also remember that in these two years of legislation, all political forces and parliamentary groups had scheduling powers and did nothing about animal protection. Therefore, come to criticise the NAP for the schedule it makes, after the rule of procedure, by using its power right, in fact, does not seem to me to be the most timely in this debate, because who is out there, at home,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... what I would like, perhaps, to know today, Mrs Deputy, is the position of the PSD on all these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u37	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u38	Mr President, good afternoon to all Members: today the PAN has come to the plenary to bring several initiatives on the subject of animal protection. The protection of animals in Portugal began to have a greater legal framework from 2017 onwards, in successive governments of the Socialist Party, since several laws were passed, these laws relevant to the protection of animals in Portugal, in particular pet animals. It is therefore important to highlight Law No 8 of 2017, which established a new legal status of animals, recognizing the nature of living beings endowed with sensitivity, empowering them as the subject of legal relations. in this context, the law determines the need for regulation of the destination of pets in the event of divorce, considering in particular the interests of each spouse and the children of the couple, as well as animal welfare. It is also to remember Law No. 95 / 2017, which went on to regulate the purchase and sale of pet animals in commercial establishments and through the Internet, and also Law No. 89 / 2019, which created the Company's Animal Information System, an important measure, since it allowed to counter abandonment and its consequences to health, safety, animal welfare, this law which was meanwhile also updated by Law No. 12 / 2022. It is also important to stress Law No 39 / 2020, which amended the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against pet animals, the new law which confers rights on pets and creates obligations for detainees, such as ensuring the welfare, safety and health of animals. Animals are, indeed, part of the family, intelligent and sensitive beings and therefore deserve all legal protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Bill No. 412 / XV / 1. it approves the scheme of deficiencies justified to work on the grounds of death or pet animal assistance. What the NAP presents today goes into the other branch of the law, let us say that it enters the field of labour law, regulated by the Labour Code and the General Labour Law in Public Functions, aiming, with this, to equate the right to justified errors in the event of death of a relative close to the shortcomings justified to work because of death or assistance to a pet. Now, we know that cases of family death are usually granted so that the employee can deal with matters related to mourning, funeral and legal matters. Portuguese legislation, in fact, does not include specific shortcomings in the provision of assistance to pet animals. However, we also know that there are already companies that are implementing and that have flexible policies, such as days of strike or the possibility of other medical or personal licenses to deal with emergencies related to pets. However, the Socialist Party is sensitive to this matter. However, we cannot fail to say that the humanist base is also paramount. It is important to have values that have to be effectively framed and, therefore, it is necessary that there is a deeper analysis for greater consolidation of this issue, which should be done in the field of specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u39	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To express it, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u40	Mr President of some seats, Mrs Raquel Ferreira, there is one thing we know: the PAN and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real are misleading their voters, because they say they are against the Tauromachia, they say they want the abolition of the Tauromachia, but what is certain is that they make agreements with the PSD and the Socialist Party, too, who are supposedly parties to defend the Tauromachia. The question I'm going to ask is very quick. It is often said that the NAP Member draws red lines to the finish—I could ask her why she does not trace them to the PS or PSD, but as the question is for the Socialist Party, it is different—and the question is the following: what is the position—and it is important for the Portuguese to know, at home—of the Socialist Party in relation to bullfighting? It is that the Socialist Party in one place says one thing, in other places it says another, and today we have to understand the position of the Socialist Party, Mrs. It is because handing over the NAP when necessary, or the NAP handing over the Socialist Party — indeed, the NAP is available to give hands to everyone — is it a thing; now, what is the position of the Socialist Party? Today the answer cannot be dubious, today it has to answer, eyes in the eyes: the Socialist Party is against or in favor of the Tauromachy in Portugal? The Socialist Party wants to abolish or not the Tauromachy in Portugal? What is the Socialist Party's position on Tauromachy in Portugal? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u41	Good afternoon to all the Members and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. In response to this request for clarification, Mrs Raquel Ferreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. Mr President, the position of the Socialist Party is very simple: the Socialist Party presented a motion and therefore it is up to each municipality to decide. In the meantime, this is how we will have to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u43	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, and because we are talking about the environment, it could not fail to begin by welcoming the agreement reached at the end of COP28 (Parties Conferences) on climate change action. I have to point out today that the energy transition is beginning to have a more explicit perspective, with the abandonment of fossil fuels. Despite the difficulties of the agreement and all the limitations, we must consider that this is another concrete step towards the carbonic neutrality that we have to achieve before 2050. In Portugal, we need to move forward more transparently and effectively with regard to public policies and climate action, not forgetting the importance of having citizens, especially young people like our allies. But, coming into the matter, I naturally welcome the NAP for the scheduling of this plenary discussion on the issue of animal protection, although, as has already been said, it was the way it was. It is certainly an important but worrying issue, because, despite the path that has been made in this area, the truth is that we continue to show various weaknesses in policies and instruments that must ensure the well-being of pets. This is therefore a moment of reflection, of political balance, but also of identification of strategies and proposals that make us evolve as a society, because we know that there is a new political cycle on the horizon and that the parties must expose their views. With all due respect for the NAP and having recognized your ability...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u45	Mr Hugo Oliveira, please stop your speech. There is disturbance here in the Hemicycle. Looks like there's a problem, it smells like burning.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u46	Galamba is smoking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u47	I hope that is not a worrying sign, but let's make a little interruption, if you don't mind, to find out what's going on. I would ask the services to take measures in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's interrupt the session for 5 minutes, to see, in better condition, what's going on. Thank you very much. See you soon. [[It was 15 hours and 49 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue our work. [[It was 16 hours and 5 minutes.]] The security services of the Assembly of the Republic have already found out and concluded that there is no danger here, so let us continue. I would ask the services to respond to all the time of Mr Hugo Oliveira. Thank you very much. Mr Hugo Oliveira, you can start your speech again. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my speech today, I could not help but talk about the agreement reached at the end of COP28 on climate change action. The energy transition now has a more explicit perspective, with the abandonment of fossil fuels. Despite the difficulties of the agreement and all the limitations, we must consider that this is another concrete step with the carbonic neutrality that we have to achieve by 2050. In Portugal we need to move forward more transparently and effectively with regard to public policies of climate action, not forgetting the importance of having citizens and, in particular, the younger ones as our allies. But, on the subject here, I welcome the NAP for the scheduling of this plenary discussion on the issue of animal protection, although, as has already been said, the way it was scheduled. It is certainly an important but worrying issue, because, despite the path that has been made in this area, the truth is that we continue to show various weaknesses in policies and instruments that must ensure the well-being of pets. This is therefore a moment of reflection, of political balance, but also of identifying strategies and proposals that make us evolve as a society, because we know that there is a new political cycle on the horizon and the parties must expose their views. With all due respect for the NAP and even recognizing your ability to work and initiative, however well- meaning they are, we must tell you in a very clear way that the cause of the welfare of pets does not have party affiliation. This communicative appropriation effort, which goes from the cause of animals to the problems of the environment, ends up feeding an extremist view on some subjects, contributing to creating factions in society and to a polarization that sometimes has counterproductive effects. There's a lot to do and evolve. Yes, there is. The challenge is to realize and not just to beat the chest and say that he is a friend of animals and that the other parties do not want to do anything or know about these matters. The PSD, in its political programme in 1974 already had a chapter on quality of life and the environment. We are, in fact, pioneers in this area. In 1995 the Assembly of the Republic adopted the first animal rights law of the authorship of Mr António Maria Pereira, which became known as the father of animal law in Portugal. In fact, that law, at the time, was almost underestimated. We have 50 years of action in these areas. in this Parliament, even in the opposition, in addition to the role of scrutiny, we have had concrete initiatives. For example, the Basics of Climate Law was approved on the basis of the work we have done, also with other parties, although we often see the PAN publicly claiming the role of this area to you. But we focus on the issue of animal protection, what we have done, what we have defended and what we will defend in the future. I recall that in 2014 the crime against pet animals was characterized by a change in the Criminal Code with the PSD initiative. It was our parliamentary majority that decided to approve it. We have also approved in 2015 Law No 110 / 2015 establishing the penalty framework applicable to these crimes. Progress has been made in this area, accompanying the sensitivity of society, which has become more conscious and demanding for the welfare of animals. In 2016 we contributed to the creation of a network of official animal collection centres in Portugal and the prohibition of slaughtering errant animals as a form of control of the population. In fact, there has been a broad consensus in this Parliament on the need to protect pets and penalise ill-treatment by criminalizing those who practice them. In our view, this question was safeguarded and therefore we do not share the view expressed in the Constitutional Court agreements and in the summary decisions which have come to claim their unconstitutionality. Anyway, we will be next to the protection of pets and the strengthening of this legal dimension, but not only. Despite the developments in policies and instruments that contribute to the protection of animals and to the deterrence of negligent and abusive behavior, the truth is that we continue to have very worrying indicators. For example, if we look at the 43,600 animals collected in 2021, which includes errant, abandoned animals and victims of maltreatment, we are faced with a highly disturbing reality that lacks more and better answers. It should also be noted that, in this area, there are major asymmetries at national level, with good and bad examples at infrastructure level: in the cases of official collection centres, dissuasive projects for abandonment and support of families, capture programs, sterilization and returns, temporary reception centres and veterinary care and adoption programs, among others. In many municipalities and parishes these conditions are still weak and incipient, having room to evolve and improve and where the central state should provide support. Regardless of the responsibilities and shortcomings of the central administration, it is important to place a greater focus on proximity policies and on support for animal welfare, ensuring that local administration and other entities can have a more effective action, and should therefore have adequate resources at their disposal. That is, a policy for animal welfare and the mitigation of the problem of abandonment, which must be able to articulate efficiently in all dimensions and scales of action. Animal welfare is a concern of the society to which the PSD will continue to correspond with concrete measures, which penalise ill-treatment and abandonment of pets, thus ensuring effective answers to the problems that exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u49	I'm asking the ladies. Authorities would like to open the galleries to the public, since I recently did not make that request. Sir, you have a request for clarification. In order to make this request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your intervention too. However, it is not surprising that the honourable Member has come here to recall the COP, whose negotiations, we well know, were not only difficult as they were in the near future of failure due to false commitment capacity and greater ambition as regards the energy transition and the end of support for fossil fuels. But what we have verified is that the PSD, when the NAP proposed, in the State budget, the end of tax bills to large fuels and pollutants, voted against the NAP proposal. So it seems to me that there is some paradox here between the speech that is made and the time of the vote. in the same way, we look at animal protection and speak to ourselves in the legacy of Antonio Maria Pereira, in that which has been the work done over these years. In fact, what we found is that not only the PSD did not come to play in the process of constitutional review, not bringing a specific proposal for the inclusion of animal protection in the Constitution, but also proposed the reduction of VAT of tourists in the framework of the State budget. I recall the words he said there, because I do not think they are innocent: he spoke only in « pets». So I ask you, honourable Member, whether or not today the PSD will be on the right side of history and whether it will be available to follow proposals such as the amendment to the Penal Code to protect all animals and not just a few — I remember that, in our country, we also have, for example, horses subject to forms of absolutely barbarous abuse,... [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] ... and we also have other forms and manifestations of violence that should not go unpunished — along with an extraordinary review process, which should have happened long ago, there had indeed not been a lack of political will for that. So I ask you what the PSD's position today will be for all the other initiatives, because today you have the opportunity to give your hand and correct the one who has been the path made in the direction of voting throughout this mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u51	To reply, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when I mentioned the COP and the agreement here, it is because I think we should have the notion of the historic day that is today and the importance it has for all parties here. This isn't like the cause of animals, which looks like it's just the PAN. It's from all parties! The importance of this agreement has been realized and the area of the environment it is protecting today, I understand that it should speak about this matter, because it is important. [[NAP protests.]] But let me answer the question you have raised briefly and quickly. We do not try again to confuse the Portuguese about the clear positions that the parties have and that the PSD has always had, and that I have been careful to list here, the position that the PSD has always had in the defense of animals and in the defense of pets. We're not gonna mix things up, we're not gonna mix things up. The honourable Member will understand, with our speeches, clearly and without any difficulty, our position, and the Portuguese, too. Since the beginning of this debate, the Portuguese have been able to understand what the PAN wanted to do here today and how it wanted to do it, which has left us so quietly the possibility of explaining that this is a matter that has always been above the parties. The animal taste and protection, as I said there recently, has no party affiliation. It has, yes, the interest of each of us in being able to have a pet and know how to treat it in the best way, because it deserves it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say this: either one of you. Members who are in here will certainly have this feeling towards your animal, not the way the PAN wants to pass on to all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u53	For an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The subject we are debating today should make everyone aware. Will we be properly protecting our animals with the existing legal framework? The question is easy to answer: no, and the justification is in the examples that come from animal abuse, which continue to pass impunity. We all know the horrible story of an ex-nurse who smashed up a cold-blooded dog to remove her puppies. Following that, the dog came to die, having the dogs, alive, put in the trash. In the face of such atrocities, the judge applied 16 months of imprisonment for cruelty. This would therefore be the first effective prison sentence for crimes committed exclusively against pet animals, all based on the law that penalises the ill-treatment of pet animals that entered into force in 2014. But the story doesn't end here. After all, what had been considered a historic condemnation in Portuguese justice, the effective prison for these types of crimes, was reverted by the Court of Relations. Like this, other decisions have been reviewed by higher courts for the clear benefit of the offender. But this is just an example. The truth is that between 2019 and 2022 less than 14 % of the cases opened by the Public Prosecutor's Office for Pet Mistreatment continued to be charged. In four years, there were 6657 records in 7720 open investigations, which shows that there is still a long way to go. Every day there are abandoned animals, animals left to die in hunger, animals poisoned or assaulted in absolutely intolerable ways. The situation dramatically worsened when the Constitutional Court, in different cases, considered that the law of ill-treatment is unconstitutional and subsequently the Attorney-General of the Republic called for its declaration of unconstitutionality with general mandatory force. The decision of the Constitutional Court is not yet known, but if it is unconstitutional to criminalize animal abuse, we have only one way: to amend the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what we did when we presented our draft constitutional review in this legislature and that is why we will continue to propose. This is what we want when we propose greater protection for fauna and flora, specifically referring to animals, as happens, for example, in the Brazilian Constitution. The intention is for them to gain constitutional dignity and make the Basic Law of the Country follow the evolution in this matter, already present in the Civil Code and the Criminal Code. We know the importance of the exact place of animals in society. We therefore know that it is our duty to take care of them. The arrival is against impunity for the practice of what crime is, and the current situation has allowed absolutely grotesque acts to pass away, which must be urgently changed. I end with a sentence by Abraham Lincoln: "I am in favour of animal rights as well as human rights. This is the proposal of an integral human being. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u55	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. In order to make this request for clarification, Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, pets are important in people's lives and often function as therapy, both physical and mental, help in combating loneliness and even provide more quality of life. Children who live with these animals become more affectionate, supportive, sensitive and responsible and better understand the cycle of life and death, according to scientific study. Now, you can't confuse an animal with a person and, in turn, with the family. Obviously, your loss can cause suffering or even unhappiness, but you cannot compare the incomparable. Animals are not people. The project in question proposes approval of the scheme of deficiencies justified to work on the grounds of death or assistance to pets. Animals, as referred to in the Civil Code, are living beings, endowed with sensitivity and object of legal protection, because of their nature. In the absence of special law, they are subsidiaryly comparable to things; now they are not equal to people. The same law states that animals may be the subject of property rights and also that their owner must ensure their well-being, since the PSD is the creator of the law that criminalizes animal abuse. in this matter, progress has already been significant and there is still a way to go, but we cannot question the principle of the stability of labour law for reasons brought by the NAP. It is never too much to mention Pope Francis, who said that animals cannot replace children, yet encouraging politicians to take measures that help stimulate birth. He also said that many pets are already replacing children in the homes of many families. The project presented by the NAP does not solve any structural problems that affect people and families. The PSD agrees with the opinion of the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Inter-union) in this regard, and I quote: "In the face of many problems still to be solved in the field of conciliation, it is somewhat premature to create a specific system of shortcomings for assistance to pets. Do not keep on seeking. ” And as for the shortcomings justified by the death of an animal, we believe that the proposed regime must be compared with the system of failure due to the death of family members, such as grandparents and siblings, in which only two days of absences are granted and the NAP proposes that a day of absence be granted. Now, it seems manifestly inappropriate for us to propose the NAP. We could list several reasons, but let's stick to those that are central in this time and in people's lives, such as fighting poverty, encouraging birth, eradicating homeless people, encouraging housing creation, access to decent health care. This is the real time to support people and families; this is PSD's DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), it's your mission. And the question being asked is: does this project solve any greater problem that really affects Portuguese people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u57	To reply, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u58	Madam President, Mrs Olga Silvestre, although she did not understand the question very well,... [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] ...because there was a very long intervention before any question was asked, it is obvious that, for the Arrival, the human being will always be first. But that obviously does not prevent us from treating our animals properly. With regard to the proposals submitted by the NAP, we believe that the first proposal, five days of absence due to the death of an animal, is obviously exaggerated and does not make any sense or any logic. However, we believe that changes to the law must be made in order to defend animals, especially when they are treated with excessive cruelty and without any meaning. And in that sense, we will continue to defend this position. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u59	Is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real requesting the floor to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u60	Mr President, it was for an intervention, following the intervention that was made, but as it was a question from the PSD to the Arrival, I will have to wait for my turn.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u61	As you know, requests for clarification must be requested during the speech of the speaker. For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, at the initiative of the NAP, we discuss a set of diplomas related to animal protection and welfare, and some will see on this occasion a good occasion to reopen the recent discussion on a supposed dichotomy between humanism and animalism, the latter understood in the meaning, which is erroneous from the ontological and philosophical point of view, of the existence of a moral equivalence between human rights and the rights of animals. It is not in this plan that the Liberal Initiative is taking place nor is it in this debate that we want to focus on. For us, moreover, the discussion is simple and should be short, because the liberal ideal is a tribute to the humanist ideas of Enlightenment. Therefore, it is clear to us that the supreme protection of human dignity, as enshrined in our own Constitution, necessarily implies the penalization of the infliction of cruel or harmful treatments to other sensitive beings. As you have already seen, this formulation covers human beings and other sensitive beings, and that is why it is naturally and with conviction that the Liberal Initiative views favourably — although with reparations that, in the field of expertise, we may try to solve — the generality of the diplomas that are being discussed here today. I would like to focus specifically on the Resolution Project No. 945 / XV / 2. the, which provides for the assumption, by this Parliament, of extraordinary constitutional review powers, and in this regard I have to say that I expected more rigor and greater sense of opportunity on the part of the proposer. in an exposition of reasons, in addition, in a generally well-founded manner, the NAP argues that there is an indispensable and unadjustable character in its claims. We don't agree, and I'll explain why. First of all, the matter is still under consideration by the Constitutional Court. Several sections of the Court have already been called to rule five times in concrete monitoring of the constitutionality of the application of Law No. 69 / 2014 to criminalize ill-treatment of pets. The decisions were unfavourable, invoking the absence of constitutional protection of animal welfare. And, as the law requires, in January this year, the Public Prosecutor's Office launched a process aimed at declaring, now, unconstitutionality with general force of that same standard. This case will already be decided, not by a section, but by the plenary of the Constitutional Court, whose decision not only is not expected shortly as it is well possible that it does not go in the same direction as previous decisions. Secondly, it is not possible to open an extraordinary review process while it remains open, as is the case, the ordinary review process, during which, in fact, the Liberal Initiative has already expressed its position in favour of the consecration of animal welfare as a constitutionally protected good. And finally, the proposer well knows that the horizon for the dissolution of this Assembly of the Republic, which is next January 15th, makes an extraordinary process of possible open review ineffective and devoid of any practical usefulness at this time. These three arguments, Mrs Deputy, are, or should be, your knowledge. We ask ourselves, then, why did you insist on the NAP in this scheduling, whose practical effect can be null, and still above not allowing drags. The answer, Mrs Deputies, can only be one: it is a sign of virtue — something, already of itself, not worthy and not deserving of the appreciation of the Liberal Initiative and, above all, in this case, has obvious extra motivations for going to the legislative elections in three months, on 10 March. The Liberal Initiative has already proved to be unreceptive and nothing permeable to signs of virtue, media numbers or pre-election maneuvers. We're not going to change now just because we're going to have elections. We will not yield to the same temptations as others. with us, you can count on us to contribute to the protection of animal welfare. You can't count on us for signs, numbers or maneuvers, come them or not from the places of custom. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u63	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I ask you how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u64	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u65	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Carlos Cação, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it is through the combination of measures that we can develop to ensure better conditions of welfare for pets by combating the scourge of abandonment. However, there are proposals for measures which are well-intentioned, but which may lead to risks and even to aggravation of the problems that aim to mitigate if they do not have the due weighting and institutional articulation. It seems to us that this is the situation of Bill No. 662 / XV / 1. the, which aims to recognize the figure of the Community animal and extend the scope of sterilization programmes to respond to the problem of errant animals. But first of all, it is important to recognize that progress has been made in society at this level. Mistaken animals still exist, which remains a problem in some geographical areas, but we are far from the past. We must not normalize the erring animals, even if we can call them 'Community dogs' and we want to have a view up to the buccal point of reality. At this level, solutions proposed by the NAP may even seem benevolent, but in practice they are not the best. They involve costs and resources that could be more effective if invested in the prevention or control of these populations. They say in the bill that this solution has been implemented with great success in Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Ecuador, but do not refer to European countries such as Portugal, where social, urban, demographic and environmental reality is different. It is also important to highlight the opinion delivered by the National Association of Municipalities, which is unfavourable to your diploma. There is much to be done in terms of preventing abandonment, supervision, criminalisation of offenders, raising awareness of the conditions of official collection centres or adoption programmes. However, public policy responses, and in particular laws, have to measure the costs and benefits of what they foresee, under the penalty of being counterproductive. Although we all understand that there is a different reality between urban areas and rural areas, where animals move differently, the truth is that a law has to be applied throughout the national territory. The NAP initiative is certainly well-intentioned. There are cases of people who care sincerely about the basic needs of some street animals, feeding them, and there may even be communities that do, but this is not a solution that we normalize by law. Therefore, Mr President, to conclude, the National Association of Municipalities has issued an opinion which is unfavourable to this diploma. I ask you if you agree with the criticism made in that opinion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u67	To make the other request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u68	Mr President, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, we know that we have ideological differences, but you also know that I have the greatest respect for you and, therefore, going to the ideological debate and on the basis of ideas, I cannot fail to point out to you that I do not really understand what has been said from that bench. Because not only has the NAP already presented this initiative, of the extraordinary review process, for more than two months ago, as you and your bank know well that we have presented another initiative that has been boycotted in the secretariat and that at that time we have resorted even to that decision because we understand that it is indeed urgent in view of the circumstances that we currently have. More than 1000 surveys — I repeat, 1000 surveys! — ill-treatment against pet animals has been wrongly filed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, even if it has not been declared a general mandatory force, in this case with the Constitutional Court's declaration of unconstitutionality, which is not only serious from the legal point of view, but also creates insecurity for all those who daily fight for the protection of animals. I recall that animal protection associations are currently in charge of thousands of animals seized under criminal processes — particularly that of Serra da Agrela, in which the animals lived in absolutely deplorable conditions ; that of the animals of knight João Moura ; that of aggressors such as this case of the bitch Pantufa — which, if the regime of criminal protection falls, will have to be returned to their aggressors, thus constituting a double violence. And we do not know whether the consensus that has met in the context of the discussion of the ordinary process will be the consensus that will exist in the next Parliament. Therefore, Mr President, for the NAP this is not a question of populism or opportunism, it is a question of political opportunity to save what we can save at this time. Because, in fact, we prefer to spend the time that we have until the end of the legislature to ensure that we will not have a 10-year backwardness and that the associations will not have to hand the animals over to the aggressors, seeing these cases unpunished, rather than actually taking a step back. Moreover, Mr President, we have already seen the Liberal Initiative bring us simple things for everything, from the simplex of the bide to so many other measures, which I confess have been loaded and, honestly, I follow that simplification. In the case of simplifying the procedure of the extraordinary review, not only does it not prejudice an ordinary revision, as, wanting and having political will, it is perfectly feasible, taking into account the consensus that has been generated, a deadline is laid down for all to be able to submit their proposals and for the completion of the extraordinary review process in one month. I ask you whether it is not available to simplify and, in fact, we ensure that animal protection is winning at the end of this legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u69	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u70	Madam President, I will be quick, because Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz will answer some of the questions that have been asked indirectly. Specifically, Mr Carlos Cação, whose question I am grateful for, yes, we agree with the part of the opinions of the National Association of Municipalities, but we agree even more with some of the purposes of the diploma that has been presented. Therefore, our stance will be to enable it, to try to improve, in the field of specialty, some of the aspects that the National Association of Municipalities itself mentions. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, also very quickly, the respect we have for each other has to do with, among other things, agreeing on the diagnosis. There is, in fact, a lot to be done for the real protection of animal welfare, but then we differ in what seems to me to be obvious today and that it is the practical impossibility of having this process completed in time. That is why I have mentioned that during the last plenary sessions of this Parliament, to insist on starting an extraordinary review process that we know that, as much as the honourable Member wishes, she cannot have practical conclusion until 15 January is that I thought she should question why she brought it. In the rest, we agree and we must certainly have consensus, in the next Parliament too, to do the process in this way. With regard to the Constitutional Court, I think that he will eventually see much of the positions that our constitutional review would like to make, but we will have to wait to see. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u71	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Four NAP initiatives on environmental protection are under discussion today. Protection of animal welfare, respect for and harmonious coexistence between human beings and other animals of nature, in particular as regards pet animals, is a fair concern which requires a more specific State intervention. The CFP is proud of its intervention heritage in this area. Of course, with the law of the official animal collection centres, of the PCP initiative, which represented a huge advance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u73	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u74	...consecrating the end of the indiscriminate slaughter of errant animals. But if this law was a huge advance, the truth is that they still lack means and it was not because of lack of initiative and proposal from the CFP. Even now, in the State budget for 2024, the CFP proposed strengthening of means for the recognition of municipal veterinary doctors as health authorities, as well as the strengthening of funds for official collection centres and sterilization campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u76	We proposed an amount of EUR 35 million instead of the EUR 13 million contained in the proposal and thus remain in the final version following the rejection of the CFP proposal. In the same budget article, the NAP approved proposals that extend the programme's destinations, but keep the money in it. Now, the same word that was already scarce, dividing by more programmes, means less money for each of them. It also means maintaining the false expectation, with the populations, with the authorities, with the animal support associations, that there will be support for certain purposes, when, after that, the funds are so few and, being divided by so many programmes, there is nothing left for those on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u77	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u78	It is appropriate to say: « Nice service to the animal cause! » Nice service when the State Budget for 2024 keeps insignificant money. See the case under Article 127 ( d ). the proposal for a budget law, which defines an amount of €100 000 — €100 000! — to support all animal associations in the country with veterinary products. Or when you put an amount of EUR 2 million to share veterinary services, create public veterinary hospitals, share food and even create a food bank. All this with 2 million euros! Or even when, with this proposal, the NAP cut almost EUR 2 million for the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et des Forests) with the National Programme for the Adoption of Company Animals and then further extends the scope of the same programme. This is called deceiving people, deceiving associations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u79	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u80	... because the funds of Article 127. it did not increase even € 1, but still the NAP, which marks this debate to try to show that it gives centrality to this cause, refrains from the State budget, the exchange of zero, as it does in Madeira, when it joins the PSD and even the CDS-PP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this aspect of the State budget is in no way disconnected from the analysis of initiatives today. From now on, with regard to the issue of criminalization and the proposal for the assumption of constitutional review powers. When this matter was discussed in 2014, the petition proposed by this and other subjects referred to important aspects such as the responsibility of the State, the authorities before the monitoring and guarantee of animal rights. At the time he stated to the CFP, and I quote that « unfortunately, those parties which have limited the possibility of the authorities being able to hire workers who impose cuts in the financing of the authorities, have cut off the means of the ICNF and the GNR (National Republican Guard ), and which systematically degrade the State's ability to intervene from the point of view of prevention and supervision, are the same parties who, from the proposal of the Animal Association, have only withdrawn the simplest part, which is that of the penalty. Do not keep on seeking. ” We reaffirm today: the penalty — we understand it as the use of the state's coercive power to send people to jail — is the last resort of intervention for the protection of consolidated fundamental legal goods. We do not accept that a State which in terms of animal welfare, and due to political options, fails to prevent and fail to control, wants to replace its failures through criminalization, as if this solves the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u82	The progressive balance and pendant of Portuguese criminal law is a good to preserve, it is indeed one of the most important battles of our time, a true frontier between progress and punitive obscurantism, which has been called criminal populism. Creating new types of crime, increasing the criminal framework of existing crimes does not solve the problems, on the contrary, as is known, are countries with larger criminal frameworks in which more crimes occur.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u83	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u84	for our part, we will insist that the progressive solution to serious problems, such as animal abuse, is more investment in prevention, control, monitoring and ultimately solving the social problems that give rise to it. In 2014 we were still alerting for the possible unconstitutionality of the law that was being approved. This was proved by the correctness of this alert and, because it was not intended to go to a solution of common sense, the result ended up being impunity for animal abuse. We believe that there is a legislative path to resume and therefore the CFP presented a bill for the creation of a counter-order penal system for animal abuse. This is the immediate solution to end impunity for ill-treatment, without violating the Constitution and without insisting on making a change to the Criminal Code which, as life has already shown, is an inglorious insistence that does not solve any problem. As for other initiatives under consideration, overpopulation and errant animals are a real problem. The CFP has been warning about the need for an extended national animal sterilization campaign to control the populations of errant animals and to avoid their continued growth with the corresponding burden on the official animal collection structures. That is why, several times, the CFP has proposed generalised sterilization plans, not only for erring animals, but also for animals with detention and free of charge. We therefore agree with the NAP project on the need to extend sterilization campaigns. However, on this same initiative, the NAP is still seeking to create the figure of the Community animal, including dogs, and to place new obligations on municipal chambers and fregueries in relation to their diet and even their supervision, while the authorities are responsible for animals in their registration, with all that this implies from the point of view of accountability. What seeking to solve the problem of caregivers can create other problems and even discourage CED ( capture, sterilization and returns). As for the clothing parks, we recognize initiatives, such as Sintra, that we have been closely accompanied. The problem is that the country is not all the same, not all the authorities have the same means as Sintra, for example, not all the local situations in this country outside confront a uniformization of procedures and expectations that are created with legislation that is not accompanied by the necessary financial resources. As for the initiative which seeks to establish a system of fault justified at work, for assistance or for the death of pet animals, we will not follow it, because, although we understand the arguments and suffering of those who lose their pet, we believe that the proposed regime, when covered by the regime of currently existing failures, because of the death of relatives who have arrived, such as grandparents or brothers, in which only two days of justified fault are granted, introduces a imbalance that would be difficult to accept. We will, on the other hand, follow the NAP initiative on shock collars and strangulation, and it may be necessary to work in the field of specialty, agreeing that the total deregulation of trade in products which cause physical harm to animals is deeply an attack on animal welfare. But we must also insist that, in order to comply with this law which we hope can be approved, more means of supervision and prevention are needed and, for that reason, the strengthening of financial resources is essential so that the State can have that role, also in the monitoring of this law, which we hope can be approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u85	Mr President, the Bureau has registered for a request for clarification by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Member of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u86	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his speech, and there is, however, a divergence of view between the NAP and the CFP regarding the regime to be applied to abuse. For the PCP, clearly, cases such as that of the Pantufa, which has been emptied and left to die, as well as its offspring, resolve with a mere fine applied to its holder,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u87	This is on the street of the century that you have to deal with, not on the Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u88	... whose deterrent and preventive effect we well know that it is completely different from that which has a criminal code and even in terms of intervention. The NAP does not forget that, for example, when DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) has given up 500 procedures for counter-ordination, the consequence was zero, and, however, if criminal proceedings are not handled, there is a legal consequence that is the crime of obstruction of justice. Therefore, we will certainly have much more confidence in the criminal system than in the counter-ordering system, so we do not understand the insistence of the CFP in, in some way, having such a light hand with these cruel crimes that are practised against completely defenseless beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u89	They didn't hear us when we wanted to move on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u90	But, Mr President, I ask you if you think it is indifferent to the associations to have benefited from zero VAT for the donation of food, when, at the moment, what is most scarce and what we are told is that there is a lack of donations, particularly in feed for animals. I also ask you if you think it is indifferent for associations to have to pay zero — the value is zero! — VAT from 1 January 2024, when the feed is purchased, or when the standard of animal protection and amendments have been mentioned. I suggested that you look a little more carefully, because the values you mentioned are values that the Government had set out in the Budget and the NAP, yes, it has moved in the norm and changed it, because it does not make any sense to have an ambiguous norm that predicted and exhausted all the money in a programme that does not exist and that has no regulatory basis yet, rather than channeling this money to direct support to associations and animal care. I therefore ask you, Mr President, if you think all this is indifferent to those on the ground and it is so difficult. Finally, as far as the rights of workers are concerned, I am very surprised that they do not follow the NAP in the right to mourning for the death of a pet. The NAP follows the understanding that it is manifestly disproportionate that the loss of a brother only has the right to two days, but it is no less fair that a person who loses a pet, which is so often the only company that has within his home, has to take a day's holiday, one day's rest, in order to be rightly absent from work. And there is the case of the most vulnerable and vulnerable people from the point of view of want, who are forced to go to work when they often lose a companion of life. I ask you if you think this is fair and how you do not follow the NAP to a degree of more basic labour justice, both for people and for animals. Otherwise, we enter into the contradiction: we have a law that criminalizes ill-treatment and the lack of provision of medical-veterinary care, but then there can be no justification for taking the animal to the veterinarian. I do not think it is very consistent and we hope that the CFP will follow us and change its position on this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u91	Mystifying demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u92	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u93	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the truth is that the NAP also has to be confronted with the result of this obstination, which it had in 2014, despite the warnings it made: the result was impunity. at this moment, what exists is impunity. Since it was considered unconstitutional the law that you wanted to approve, the objective result is that today we have a situation of impunity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u94	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u95	... and therefore it is necessary to reverse this situation and solve this problem. What we say is that criminal law does not serve to alter consciences. Criminal law is the last resort of a State...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u96	You should know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u97	... and we do not accept that a State that fails in the prevention part, that fails in the surveillance part, then is only there at the time of punishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u98	You have to know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u99	This is a state view that we do not actually share, and not only in this respect, is in relation to a much broader set of aspects. We believe that this is a very important battle for the future and for the defence of democratic law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u100	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u101	Mr President, I conclude by saying that it is indisputable that the NAP's embarrassment with that budget proposal in which it ended up abstaining, because the truth is that the money for animal protection was exactly the same. There was not a further € 1 for this animal protection money, contrary to what the CFP proposed, which strengthened this money. The NAP has not achieved even 1 cent to strengthen these funds and has extended the programmes, making the blanket even shorter for the problems that arrive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u102	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u103	... deluding, therefore, the zoophilic associations who think they have support there, but then they see that this does not reach the ground. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u104	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The marking of elections creates its own political dynamics and, as a general rule, leads political parties, legitimately, to try to overcome differences vis-à-vis other parties, rather than to win ideas or proposals in which there may be some kind of convergence. Therefore, it also sends some political caution that themes that are beyond a purely party agenda — themes of society, how we organize ourselves, how we value a set of ideas, values, emotions — are not the subject of this political debate, party and corrigendum, which often serves only and only when it happens, to underestimate and diminish the space of support that certain ideas could have, both in society and in Parliament. Unfortunately, that is what the NAP is doing with this debate. And I'm going off to the proposals from the beginning. None of them deserve support; on the contrary, all of them deserve support. However, the NAP did not want other parties to intervene in this debate as well. Why? Do you think you have the only solutions to the animal cause? Do you think the animal cause is PAN's property? Now, history has always shown that anyone who thinks that he has property for certain causes is killing the cause and not helping her to make a social majority, that she does the social transformation that is deserved. That is why this is the first failure of this agenda. It is an agenda that is partisan and does not serve to ensure a social advancement that was necessary on themes that are fundamental. Does it make sense that we don't recognize the emotional weight that is the loss of a pet, which, perhaps, sometimes, is the only company for days on end? Of course, all of us, who have some bit of humanity, must recognize that this is a necessary debate, is profound. Does it make sense, for example, that we continue to accept that peak collars, shock collars, strangulation collars, that have already proved to be harmful to animals and nefarious for the purpose of saying that they were created—that it is to educate animals—are they detrimental to this integration and inclusion of animals in a full social life? Does it make sense that we do not discuss whether they should be banned? It makes sense we discussed them. It makes sense until we ban them. However, when we turn this into an essential debate, but in the parliamentary rhetoric, in the confrontation to shoot other parties, we are devaluing these debates. It makes sense that we discuss the figure of the Community animal, the public policies to carry out in the sterilization campaign, the ways of ensuring that the State fulfils its obligation — as it is often not fulfilling, and not only in a budgetary matter, is in the responsibilities of the State, the authorities. The sterilization of animals should be a public responsibility, there should be a concern with the erring animals, which currently does not exist, which is very much what the law even provides, and this debate was fundamental, but unfortunately it is bad if we have it in a logic of throwing against other political forces, because there we are each on his own farm, each one defending his little party and, in practice, each one of us attacking the cause, rather than valuing the animal cause. And that is the problem of this debate, that is the problem of how it has been marked. We could be here discussing more examples, but even Mrs Inês de Sousa Real's own argument, when she used the Tauromachia to attack the Left Block, proves exactly the example of all the argument I am referring to. The only parliamentary group that the NAP can say that it has always been its ally, in all measures, with a view to prohibiting the bullfighting, was used to be attacked, on behalf of what? On behalf of the election campaign. That is why it sends some political caution that themes that are greater than ourselves and causes that are greater than only one party is treated with this seriousness and that we do not keep digging the trenches of differences, but rather building bridges, in order to actually solve the problems. Unfortunately, this is not the day for this, but, in this regard, it is the NAP that will have to take on its responsibilities publicly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u106	You also have a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u107	Mr President, honourable Member, you mentioned here again, on the one hand, the position of the NAP on political options that respect autonomy. I recall that the NAP respects regional autonomy and that, indeed, the words we have heard, still recently, are still curious, saying that the NAP, in the background, came to attack the only ally it has in the animal cause, when the Left Block brings the land here, political options that respect regional autonomy. On the other hand, I ask you why you did not clarify your speech if the Block changed its position on the way you voted in the Budget. I would like you to clarify effectively, because I believe that it can only have been a lapse, taking into account the historical and the struggle, in this House, for the abolition of the Tauromachy, because it is manifestly incoherent in this sense of vote and we do not want there to be an actual backwardness. The backwardness I was talking about recently and the fear that we would not have political consensus in a next legislature cannot go through steps like those we have witnessed in some interventions, either in the field of the Criminal Code, one day, either in the field of constitutional review, on the other, or even less in such fracturing matters and in which we are already so few, as is the case with the Tauromachia. Therefore, without any kind of support, I ask you, because you have more than one opportunity to clarify it and the NAP has nothing to benefit from even asking this question — if, in fact, it was a vote that should not have happened and if that is not the position of the Left Block in relation to the fall in the VAT of the Tauromakia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u108	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u109	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa de Real, I have participated in many demonstrations against the tourdas. In fact, Mr Pedro Pinto, who must now be drinking coffee, who is not here, accuses me of this constantly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u110	But where are we? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u111	Have some coffee? Oh, my God! Look, look! And where is Mariana Mortagua? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u112	Are you winning the second salary? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u113	I believe that, from the point of view of my personal conduct and the conduct of the party in the fight against bullfighting, we have no explanation. As far as voting on the Tauromachy is concerned, I say with all the letters: the Left Block is against the Tauromachy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u114	Where's Mariana?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u115	Mariana Mortágua? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u116	...all will do so that the bullmach is passed in our country and is not part of the future. And we will do everything — you can be sure — is the commitment that I individually have, and I already had before I belong to the Left Block, and it is the compromise that collectively the Left Block has. And we never doubt who our allies are in this matter. We do not reject the role that the NAP has in this area, and that is why I find this trench dig at the moment on this point. There was an issue that I raised right now at the beginning, which was about why other parties should not bring initiatives to debate. And I ask you the question, because you still have time to answer: when has the Left Block ever prevented the PAN, with a single Member, from coming to debate to drag initiatives with Left Block initiatives? When? That is where we see this opening for the debate of those whom we consider to be able to add proposals or this party closure, which, in an electoral period, may be interesting, but I believe that, for the animal cause, it is detrimental to more than to value. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u117	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u118	And Mariana and Soier, where are they? Say that! Drinking coffee? Smoking?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate there is the fundamental question, there is the question of method, there is the question of political opportunity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u120	There he comes for classes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u121	...and then there's another question, which is how I'm going to talk about it in one minute. At the bottom of the matter, we agree. We can opt for a terminology based on animal rights or, as we do in the Free, more based on protection and animal welfare, since, from a philosophical point of view, rights depend on reciprocity, at least potential, among those who share those rights. But that is not the main issue. The main question is that we will follow the measures presented here by the NAP and that, by moving on to the specialty, we will seek to improve them. The question of method has to do with the NAP not allowed — it was not the only party, there are other parties that, at the end of the legislature, do the same — that the other parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic brought initiatives to debate, in the schedules they make. It's legitimate, but it's sad. That is not what the Free will do on the agenda that will have on the next day 19 because this precisely impoverishes the democratic debate. Now, the question of opportunity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u122	Now are you going to start the subject exhibition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u123	... it has to do with the NAP to wish this Assembly of the Republic to assume extraordinary constitutional powers for a cause we understand that it is legitimate and that we even accompany it, but look at this: this Parliament is in a pre-dissolution situation. currently, it is with an ongoing constitutional review process. It is not only to be materially possible or 'impractic' to come to an end. [[Time's up!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u124	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u125	I conclude, Madam President. Imagine that PS and PSD, which have two thirds and can change the Constitution, decided to change the Constitution in cases that found urgent and legitimate to a few weeks in an election. It would obviously be antidemocratic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u126	Didn't you hear the president? You don't respect anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u127	I'm done, although it's difficult, because all the time there were interruptions and collapsing, as usual, from the bank of the Arrival. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u128	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create conditions for the speaker to be heard and I ask the speaker to conclude. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u129	Yes, a final sentence. Exactly in the causes we love the most, the more obligation we have to respect due, democratic and constitutional procedures. To want this Parliament to change the Constitution at the end of the hour, before it is dissolved, it is certainly not serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u130	Mr Diogo Cunha, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate about the adoption of measures necessary for the protection of animal welfare has been gaining more and more consensus. It is essential to promote the protection of animals from acts of cruelty, widespread ill-treatment and abandonment. Portugal, the country in which pets are part of a large number of family aggregates, has more than 4 million registered pets. It is urgent, then, to discuss this issue openly, promoting a strengthened treatment of these matters, so that we promote an improvement in the quality of public animal welfare policies. Portugal must also follow a line consistent with best international practices, but also follow further and be a precursor of public policies that inspire other societies to follow the same example. On 25 March 2021, the Council of Ministers promoted a transfer of animal welfare competences to the Ministry of the Environment and Climate Action, likewise promoting a resolution approving the National Programme for Company Animals. Those who have been aware of our work in this area, and because we understand the promotion of animal welfare as a design of Portuguese society, this draft law of the NAP deserves our attention and discussion. However, it also deserves a more comprehensive reflection. The coercive methods of animal training have long been analyzed and discussed. The English example has enabled a general debate on this subject to be stimulated in a wide-ranging challenge. From 1 February 2024, after a 10-year campaign, the use of e-collar calls will be banned in the United Kingdom. In France, they were banned in January 2023, and in Portugal, they should also walk in this direction. However, with a more in-depth debate. It is important to understand that pets also represent, for many Portuguese, essential support for their life, self-esteem and mitigation of isolation and loneliness. in this context, it should be noted that there is no legislation in Portugal that regulates the training of animals or the use of coercive training tools, such as strangular collars and peaks, which are used by trainers, holders, elements of police forces and even in the training of dogs of therapy and assistance. These devices can therefore be purchased in physical stores or via online stores, without any sales control, without any control over their use. The effects of these necklaces may be diverse and are proven potentially harmful to dogs, and several international official entities have published scientific studies on the subject, exposing the effects of these necklaces and strongly discourage their use. Bibliography and research in the areas of animal behavior are clear: there is no evidence of the effectiveness of these devices in controlling animal behavior. On the contrary, electronic collars are intended to be used as remotely controlled training devices, which may also have the form of electronic fence systems or even anti-lated devices. The evidence recently published confirms, to several degrees, the low effectiveness of the suppression of unwanted behaviors. However, there are also clear potential welfare concerns with the use of these devices. These are: the inherent need to administer electrical stimuli to the animal, which will probably cause various degrees of discomfort or pain; and the potential for misuse or abuse, and the latter may lead to the administration of excessive electrical stimuli and/or poorly timed stimuli, which could cause additional suffering to an animal if it was unable to link the stimuli to a specific behavior. It is clear, then, that, in the overwhelming majority of circumstances, alternative approaches, supported by positive reinforcement, avoid the need for abusive and severe stimuli and are as effective as electronic collars. In the light of current scientific knowledge, the use of these materials is obsolete and, in many cases, dangerous, although the use of these necklaces is still a practice used also in Portugal, with the justification for minimizing the risk of extravioting the hunting dog or the dogs held by police forces. However, the Socialist Party knows that in many activities, such as hunting and others, there are devices that can be designated by collars that interact with the animal in a completely harmless way, but that use a sound or vibrating signal to help improve the relationship between the animal and its owner. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the issues that prompted the most debate in the United Kingdom was whether these rules should be applied to the dogs that make up the military and police contingents, and this was discussed as a matter of national defence. However, the NAP does not refer to this matter. in this sense, the parliamentary bench of the Socialist Party does not disagree with the general meaning of the NAP project, however, we question whether the Bill No. 456 / XV / 1. it constitutes a necessary and robust response in this area. We understand that this bill is not presented with the necessary legal clarity, it does not promote a deep debate and does not include, for example, the corresponding counter-ordination. In view of the above and the grounds, we consider that Bill No 456 / XV / 1. the Socialist Party will not deserve the favourable vote. However, there is a matter for it to be the subject of a legislative proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u132	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, on behalf of the PSD parliamentary board, Mr João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has history, has curriculum in these matters of defending animal welfare and its rights, and will continue to do so, distinguishing the human dimension and nature of the animal. I placed this, center - me, exclusively, in Bill No. 456 / XV / 1. the NAP — in fact, they are bills of the NAP that are currently under discussion and not of any other party – which envisages the marketing of shock collars and strangulation collars. We understand the concerns involved, even though the initiative raises some doubts, which we bring to debate, naturally waiting for Mr Diogo Cunha to accompany us. There are, in fact, different situations with regard to containment collars. They are not all the same and, in the case of shock collars, there is indeed a tendency to restrict their use and marketing in several European countries, in the face of the risks they pose. The proliferation of these electronic devices and their untiring use poses increasing risks to pet animals, and may provoke and provide unjustified acts of cruelty, and therefore States have been reacting through restrictions on their use. These devices can perfectly be indispensable in our relationship with pets, and their widespread use even affects the legislation we have adopted to combat abuse, so we must be consistent and seal or, at least, control their use. [[PSD applause.]] According to many experts, training pet animals, especially dogs, through systematic induction of painful stimuli through shocks or bites, can generate negative impacts on their psychological and physiological behavior, being even counterproductive in view of the intended effects, arguing that training based on positive strengthening techniques is much more effective. Now, on so-called strangulation collars, there are very sharp cases: there are those that can cause serious harm to animals, but there are also more harmless necklaces, which tighten without injury, which are adopted and used to ensure the safety of people. In fact, the question remains about the procedure for violent, large-scale, strong and aggressive animals, whose attacks we see repeatedly in the media. These attack indiscriminately and randomly their owners, children or mere passersby, so I ask: what do you do, PS Member and PAN Member in these situations? Are positive reinforcement techniques sufficient? Or, in these cases, are the containment collars, without peaks and no electric shocks, justified in view of the unquestionable superiority of the value of health and physical integrity of humans? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to banish these collars without proper weighting may eventually be counterproductive. Now, with a great diversity of situations, it would make sense for proper consideration and analysis of all factors, cautioning, so that we can evolve, animal welfare, but also the safety of people. Despite the limited time in this legislative session, we understand that this process can still benefit from a reflection on the specialty, receiving some contributions from entities that allow us to improve the bill and fill the legal gaps that may exist. Does the honourable Member share these concerns? Do you agree with this methodology? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u134	To reply, Mr Diogo Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Marques, during your request for clarification I have been waiting for a question,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u136	I made half a dozen of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u137	...but I think it was more of an intervention than a question. I want to tell you that your question was at the meeting of my speech and that we share concerns about shock collars. With regard to restraint collars, they must be limited, as they must be compatible with the welfare and dignity of animals. With regard to our position on this bill, we hope that this wording can be improved in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u138	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u139	Oh...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u140	But society that doesn't know how to take care of its animals is a society that doesn't know how to take care of its citizens. [[PS protests.]] We cannot forget that an animal is not a person and, as a veterinary doctor, I say that those who put at the same level of dignity, the person and the animal... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u141	I ask you to keep quiet. Ladies and gentlemen. There is no need to respond to bad education with other bad education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member may proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u142	Mr President, Mr President himself has public statements saying that it was a node in his curriculum to be recognized as President by this bench, so we insist on this term « Mr. President of a number of seats'. We must not forget that an animal is not a person and, as a veterinary physician, I say that those who place the same level of dignity on the person and the animal commit violence both with the animal and with the person. There is a natural order and, when that natural order is exchanged and reversed, we all lose as society. But no one can expect a state and parties that do not respect people and want to kill them for euthanasia, especially the most vulnerable and the most ill, to respect animals. No one here, among these 230 Members, likes animals more than I... [[Rice from PS and PCP Members.]] ... therefore, I decided to be a veterinary doctor and, for years, I have devoted my academic and professional life to caring for animals, research, prevention, treatment and, therefore, I do not accept lessons from any animalist sitting here. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, animals are not people, but they are our friends, and unfortunately there are some who still treat them without respect and compassion. Unfortunately, for animals too, there are some who say a lot of their friends and even tear their clothes and make vows of love, but they are the same ones responsible for perpetuating the ill-treatment and systemic animal distress. It is that, in the name of animals and of nature, they enable budgets and support governments in exchange for benefits that reach almost everyone, but they never reach the animals they need most. It's been like this for the last eight years. Fortunately, the times have changed and, on the next 10th March, the people will vote and will put the Arrival in the Government of Portugal. [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u143	The enemies of the animals in this House are the same enemies of the common Portuguese. They take over the PS, the Left Block, the PAN and the Free. I say this because it is worth proposing and approving your legislation, which tries to protect animals, if they do not create the conditions for their application.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u145	Mrs. Members, take advantage of the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic and, between January and March, leave the Palace of Saint Benedict and travel through the Real Country. They will visit the associations, visit the municipalities and see what is happening on the ground: see the lack of veterinary doctors in the DGAV and in the municipalities; see the lack of means that the police and the Public Ministry have to enforce the legislation; see the lack of technicians and tractors; see how they have created the Animal Providence, but then they have not given them the means to carry out and develop their mission. It's a real shame, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Every day, 120 dogs and cats are abandoned. It's over 40,000 a year. They increase every year, as poverty increases in this intergovernmental country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Portuguese know well that socialism is their enemy and that their crutches want to reduce them. They are the worst enemy of the Portuguese, of the people and they are also the worst enemy of the animals. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u146	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The contemporary world has undergone an evolution from the point of view of the consecration of rights, not only with regard to people. Animals have also taken on the concern of new generations, who treat their pets with increased care and as another family member. Several studies have already shown the benefits of pets in people's lives, particularly at the level of mental health. The Liberal Initiative accompanies these concerns and recognizes the importance of pets on the day-to-day Portuguese, so it cannot fail to overcome the fact that ill-treatment and intentional and free cruelty to animals is not admissible in a country such as Portugal, a signatory to the European Convention for the Protection of Pets of Company, since 1987. The convention provides that « no one should cause unnecessary pain, suffering or distress to a pet» and also adds that « no one should abandon a pet ». The notion of responsibility for animal treatment is not new. The notion of increased responsibility of the people who decide to take over pets is not so either. An animal life is not a human life, but it is, in any case, a life; a life in charge and the care of a responsible person. On the other hand, it is true that the reproduction of animals without any control can quickly become a public health problem and of great contribution to the increase of errant animals. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not mix matters. The NAP proposal concerns the need for a sterilization campaign, but it also creates legal obligations and figures with which we cannot agree, such as that of the dog and the Community cat. We will not imperil the NAP initiative on erring animals, because it seems to us that this is a question of self-being and, at the same time, a public health issue, but we regret that, once again, they mix different subjects into a single bill. We also regret that no proposals are made without due attention to the proportionality of the measures and, in this case, we refer to the project which creates a system of justified shortcomings for the assistance of the pet or in the event of its death. This means that, although we recognize and defend the importance of animal rights and rights associated with animals, we do not understand projects that do not have a proportionality criterion. Since then, does this scheme of justified failures apply to all pets or only to those who are registered? To all the animals or only those who have chip? Will or will not there be a limit on the number of days that are justified each year? We know that pets are considered by several people as members of your family, we also understand that the mourning of a pet can be heavy and devastating for those who feel it—I have a dog, Nico, and I don't want to think about it! — but, in order to ensure that the system of loss of death or assistance of a pet is impermeable to abuse, certain criteria must be laid down. The NAP does not analyse the consequences of the proposal, at the cost level, in terms of the possibility of abuse, it does not provide a ceiling for the number of shortcomings that may occur. An effective emotional bond should also be demonstrated with the animal, which also depends on the species and its characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, from our point of view, our society must have these concerns, but the NAP is useful and helpful in presenting initiatives whose titles and contents point to a certain sense, but which are not sufficiently in-depth so that we know what the concrete impact these measures will have on our society. Once again, Mrs Deputy, it is the "PANpulism" that we used to. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u148	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, I have to ask you whether you have read the initiative or only read the preparation of this intervention. The initiative clearly states in Article 252 ( 1 ). o -A, which is considered only for the purpose of missing, the death of a pet that is registered in the Company Animal Information System ( SIAC ). Pets in SIAC are the dog and the cat, and not other species, and the law itself has a limit of animals that can be arrested, which also answers your questions, especially on proportionality. The initiative also provides that the worker is entitled only to the absence of one day, once again, of animals registered in the SIAC, and that he has to attach evidence from the competent authority, such as the veterinary doctor who provided assistance to the animal. So, I just have one question to ask you: Mrs Have you read?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u150	Leu!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u151	It is that what you did or was an act of pure demagogy or then you have not read the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u152	As Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has no time to answer, we are now speaking to Mrs Barbara Dias on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group. Thank you to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who want to be in the plenary room, please sit down. The gentlemen. Members who wish to attend the plenary work should do so - sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u153	They're rude!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u154	And I thank you for your silence so that you can be heard. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A year ago, I adopted Belchior. I share this personal fact because my cat is a product of the CED project — Capture, Sterilization and Return to the Community. Well, in the case of Belchior, it was capture, sterilization and adoption. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, like your guardians, my cat is a socialist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] Fortunately, Belchior was captured by people who understood that his behavioral characteristics did not adapt to a life in the colony and decided to make an appeal for his responsible adoption. But how many cats don't have this luck? And why are dogs not yet part of this program? Moreover, as of 1 January 2024, they will be thanks to a proposal to amend the Socialist Party to the State Budget to 2024. [[P.S.'s applause.]] How many animals are not lucky to cross with people who see in animal welfare a cause to defend? These people should be grateful for all the meritorious and self-sufficient work in behalf of animal protection and the fight against animal abandonment. This work is, par excellence, on the net. To these people, to the defense and animal protection associations, to the municipal chambers and church councils, our greatest thanks, because they are, who are on the ground and know the reality, our biggest partners in this cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We, the Socialist Party, have many elected autarchs in the municipal chambers and in the parish councils, so yes, we know the reality of this country, and that is why we make proposals that benefit the animal cause. Not all animals are properly integrated into confined dwellings or spaces; there are also animals that adapt to street life. It is common to have institutions, associations, groups of residents who adopt animals informally, whether they are cats or dogs, and who cherish them as a member of that organization. In fact, Tobias and Jeremiah,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u156	Are they socialists? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u157	...the most famous parliamentary cats, are the closest cases we know. You really wonder how they'll be recorded. The positive influence that pets have on families, workers or even people with mental forum diseases is more than studied. Animals are increasingly seen as members of the family. On this issue, we must recall the path that the Socialist Government has taken, in order to promote animal welfare and to combat the abandonment and phenomena of errant animals. From then on, the State Budget for 2024 has as priority the implementation of the National Programme for the Adoption of Company Animals and the National Strategy for Errant Animals. This strategy stems from the need to strengthen the work done in combating animal abandonment and defines a new model based on a genuine national network of political and organizational responses to the problems felt at national level, such as the abandonment of pets and the increase of errant animals. In 2024, a number of support continued, including support for official collection centres (ORCs ), and zoophilic associations in the animal sterilization process within the framework of a national sterilisation campaign. Support for the construction and modernization of the official collection centres and the facilities of the animal associations and veterinary services to animals in the official collection centres, in deprived families, zoophilic associations or which integrate registered colonies into the catch, sterilization and return programmes; sharing in the provision of veterinary services to pet care provided by deprived families, representing a consolidation of the network of public veterinary services; and sharing in the expenditure of zoophilic associations with the purchase of veterinary products. Support for electronic identification and registration of pet animals continues. As for this measure, the investment in the disclosure of the Company Animal Information System, which resulted in a significant increase in the registration of dogs, cats and ferrets, is planned for a awareness-raising campaign to be launched in 2024, with the aim of alerting for the identification of pet animals and also for the responsibility not to abandon them. Ladies and gentlemen, population control cannot be limited to the obligation to place animals in completely unwelcome environments which, most of the time, cause greater frustration to animals. Much less the answer may be the slaughter of animals due to lack of space or boxing. Sterilization is undoubtedly a good answer, however, there are others that promote their well-being and dignity. We are following the diploma that recognises the figure of the Community animal and promotes the realization of an extraordinary campaign to sterilize errant animals, because we believe that, as legislators, we must have the creativity to inspire our policies in other good examples by this outside world, which complement their strategies with other effective measures to combat animal abandonment, such as the figure of the Community animal. Indeed, we are working to ensure that, in the near future, there is no urgency or need to implement these answers and that our animals have dignity, because, at the end of the day, this is at stake: dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u158	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u159	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Members : Laurentina Pedroso and Miguel Ángelo Carmo brought this year frightening data on violence against children, domestic violence and violence against animals. contrary to what we can think and what we have been discussing in this House, throughout this legislature, and in this particular debate, in most cases these attacks do not happen in isolation. The truth is that in 90 % of cases of children reported by complaints of abuse or neglect there were also indicators of abuse to their animals. These cycles of violence are contagious. With regard to domestic violence, 35% of the victims who saw their animals being abused in front of their children saw their children begin to replicate the behavior of the attackers; 70% of those who were charged with crimes of abuse and violence against animals were already referred to and signalled by crimes of abuse and violence against people and some even homicides.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u161	We speak in a very perverse way of violence, of course, by violence itself against the animal, but also by psychological violence that can be exercised on the victims when they see their animal suffer and the same is used to achieve them. This requires concerted answers. It is inconceivable that in the 21st century, veterinary medical services, for example, do not contact social services and do not communicate with each other and signal these cases that may be common. [[Congrats from the CH.]] How many children and women could be saved from their violence if the abuse of their animal had been identified in a common system? How many animals have been left behind when a victim flees his aggressor? How many victims don't know what to do with their animal and therefore remain with their aggressor? Since 2022, the House has been asking that the shelters be prepared to receive animals. Our proposal first was dubbed, then copied and still today lacks implementation throughout the national territory. How long have we lost in the support and responses to the victims while trying to draw red lines to the coming party? Combating violence must indeed be in every form. All human or animal victims shall be protected. And in this fight, who prefers to look at the parties instead of protecting the victims does not dignify Portugal, does not dignify the Portuguese and does not deserve to be sitting here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u162	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in a long debate — and much of it is lost, if I may say so — to talk about animal rights agendas, but each one selling what is his position. It seems that we have forgotten what should be the real wish of this debate, and that is what I intend to do during this intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. It is important that we centralize what, really, should congregate us today and throughout the ages, which is animal welfare and animal protection rights. [[PS protests.]] In this regard, the PSD — contrary to what has been said during this debate, has always been on the front line in protecting and safeguarding the rights of animals and doing so at the most different levels, but without populism, without demagogy and without forgetting respect for all the ways of life that exist in Portugal. For us, it has always been very clear that the division between pets, which must have special protection; and production animals, for which, contrary to what is often tried to be sold here, there is already a great deal of legislation, in particular the European Union, about good practices in the management of animals — and therefore they have to have a regime. at the same time, it is essential for us to safeguard the traditions and the rural world, namely venatoria activity, hunting, and also to safeguard our traditional activities, such as the tour, the cow of the Cordas, of Ponte de Lima — which is so dear to me — and all these activities that make our portugality. [[PSD applause.]] We have not seen this debate today to please each other with this demagogy and populism of "the animals above all" or "we are the great protectors". You know why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and also for the Portuguese? Because for us, animals are all, regardless of their use and function in society. We don't confuse people with animals: people are people, animals are animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u165	Each animal has its scope, its purpose, and one of them is for human feeding. We always have to think about it. We cannot talk in hunger and at the same time not protect human food. This is important to us. On the other hand, there are those animals that are also part of the species control itself. Just think of the javali: so much protection to the javali and today it is a real plague. It is essential for us to control this species. This is a global view that we have of the territory and place of animals in that territory. It seems to me that it is important that we do not seek a constitutional review, which we know is impossible, to see who most forbids, who limits more, who gives more rights to animals. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, when there was the first unconstitutional statement in Portugal, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real was here to defend the increase in penalties for the criminalization of animal abuse and I, from this very place, said to her: « Mr. the Member is concerned not to tighten the mesh more and more, but to the question of constitutionality. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] He did not worry, he worried today, when he knows that we are 15 days from the end of the legislature. That should have been the central concern and it was not — and this applies to everyone. In the PSD we did not run in search of the first focus, in pre-election period. A responsible party protects everything and all, according to its function, and at every moment, not only when it works best. This is a note that seems fundamental to me. Nor can I let this debate end without being clear: if there is today a law on criminalizing animal abuse, it was because in 2014 the PSD approved it, because it had an absolute majority in this House. If it weren't for us, she wouldn't exist. [[PSD applause.]] To hear today several parliamentary groups speak of the date from 2016, as if there was no long way up there, was at least a demonstration of evil or mere ignorance. They choose, because for us it is clear who did what at every moment. The truth is that in all proposals, in all balanced animal welfare solutions and of what is essential for Portuguese people — to treat their animals well — the PSD has always been on the front line, present, to follow up with proposals, but always, always, in view of the balance in the legislation and not to see who runs faster for the holofote, because it is not the interest of Portugal, nor of Portuguese, nor even of animals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u166	You have a request for clarification, but you have no time to answer. I ask Mrs Inês de Sousa Real whether the request for clarification remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u167	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u168	Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u169	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u170	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u171	You then have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u172	That's generosity!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u173	They're studying the alliance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u174	Repent! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u175	I beg to be quiet, please. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u176	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I cannot but ask you this question. during this debate, we are not surprised that there are political forces here that come with the narrative that we are trying to compare the rights of animals to human rights, as if that were some downgrade. In view of the formative basis, we are surprised that, in some way, there is a clear lack of knowledge here of the Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness, which recognizes that animals are living beings endowed with sensitivity, so a narrative should prevail that effectively recognizes their ability to suffer and thus question activities such as tauromachia. We are struck by the intervention of the PSD in this matter, which not only comes to invoke completely side matter, which is not being debated here today, as are animals, such as boars, as pests when our law, in particular the Civil Code, recognizes all animals as beings endowed with sensitivity. The debate that must be made is that the damage caused can be compensated, how we can ethically and humanitarianly control the populations, without necessarily having to be stigmatizing the animals. But with regard to what the honourable Member has come to defend, from the bullfighting to the rope,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u177	It's not stringed up, learn! It's Cow of the Ropes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u178	... it is good for the Portuguese to leave this debate to know which side is the position of each of the parties. The PSD, which so often here mentioned António Maria Pereira, which in its animal protection law protected all animals and not just some - it did not only protect pets - has not made it clear which side it will be positioned in a next legislature - given that it has already stated that it will not follow the NAP in the extraordinary review project to ensure animal protection. In fact, it has been very ambiguous, it has not come to play with its own proposal for constitutional review, nor has it been clear about its political options for a future legislature, and out there the animal protection associations and the families that have animals in charge of it—and that, so often, in the context of domestic violence, they are vulnerable or even see animals being used as a weapon of shooting, aggression and abuse—they do not know what your position is. It was important for the PSD to clarify where it will be positioned in the next legislature and if, in fact, it will be next to a constitutional review that protects all animals,... [[PS protests.]] ... or if you will be next to the lobbies and interests that have so far fattened and have had your status quo sitting in this Assembly of the Republic, as is the case with lobbies of hunting or bullfighting,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u179	Get back there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u180	... and that have sought to prevent the civilizational progress of our country and the effective protection of animals. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] So, what PSD are the Portuguese gonna count on? [[At this moment, CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão waved with a white scarf.]] With your speech, for the NAP, it is clear, but it might have mattered that out there was effectively clarified, because mistreating an animal...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u181	Mr Pedro Frazão, is he capable of acting in the Assembly of the Republic and respecting his colleagues, in particular his colleague Inês de Sousa Real? [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] [[CH protests.]] There are limits that cannot be exceeded. Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. We profile the two of the same doctrine: there are things we share in the curriculum and, in fact, there is a line that separates us from certain anti-democratic and populist forces and, therefore, it is better to ignore and move forward in this debate. Therefore, Mrs. Member, the NAP would like to know where the PSD will be positioned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u183	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u184	... if you will honor the legacy of Antonio Maria Pereira or if you go, once again, and regretably, to approach the extreme right and somehow to step back on a path that should, at this time, be more than consensual and unanimous in this common house.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u185	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. I thought it was quite clear during my speech, but as I was not, I thank you for the opportunity to clarify once again. The PSD will be where you've always been.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u188	And it has always been in the protection of animals and in the protection of the various uses of animals and our different traditions. Mrs. Member, I have heard you talk here about the plague of the boars as having to have a humanized approach, it is even from whom you have never known or visited the rural world, because if you had been there I wouldn't say something like that. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, what is called lobbies, what is called the hunting lobby or the animal production lobby, for us it is not lobby, for us are fundamental agents of the territory and the rural world, which we always defend. We're here where we've always been and we'll be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u190	In the constitutional review, we have discussed this matter for a long time and the PSD has said, since the first day—and as it is a matter of speech, it will also be on the same site—that we are clearly concerned and we want this problem to be resolved with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Yeah, we'll be right next to the solution. It may not be in terms of which the honourable Member wants: those of those parties which supersede the animals to the people. For us, people will always, always, always, first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u191	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are approaching the end of the debate and I believe that this is an opportunity for us to take stock not only of the debate, but also of what has been the debate in this Parliament and the adoption of measures in this area. I begin by welcoming the NAP again for the agenda and I would now take advantage of it to remember that it is only possible because, in the context of an absolute majority, there has been a reinforcement of the participations by the only representatives of the party and other political forces - I think it is the living proof that the debate was worth it, because we all had the opportunity to enrich this discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real said, in one of her initial speeches, that no one has dealt with these issues in this Parliament. Now, not only does it seem to me that this statement is somewhat inaccurate, because in several State budgets there was an opportunity to adopt measures in this area, but it is also unfair, because we all know that this legislation ends abruptly and, therefore, we would obviously have three years ahead,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u193	Or constitutional review!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u194	... in the framework of which there were several subjects which could be addressed on this subject. Finally, I don't think I give any surprising news to anyone, we obviously speed up the calendars in some matters, precisely because the legislation will end. There is an important point in this debate, which is a consensus — not a unanimity, but a consensus — very broad, trendly transversal, in the recognition of the matters of animal welfare, of course, when this value arises without the reflection that we have to make on how we compatible with other constitutionally protected values. This debate only becomes complicated when, as we have seen throughout this discussion, it is necessary to find out how we compatible animal welfare with livestock production, how we support animal welfare with cultural activities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u195	And surely we will differ between ourselves as to where the borders are and where we draw these regimes. Even in my parliamentary group we have several different positions, for example, on Tauromachic activity. Mr Pinheiro's position on this subject will certainly not be the same as me, but we share, as Mrs Raquel Ferreira recently said, that this subject should be returned to its own populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u196	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u197	And this was, in fact, the proposal we made: that each municipality should have autonomy to decide whether or not it is a municipality whose traditions pass through the Tauromachic activity at a given time. Personally, my position, I think it is known: I oppose this practice, regardless of where it occurs, but I recognize that in some parts of the country it has a weight, it has an impact, it has a symbolic value, it differs from that of other regions. We continue to believe that this, at the moment of the debate and with respect for the position that at various points in the country may be different, would be a more appropriate solution than what we have, in which really no one can gain cause and no one can do the democratic debate. So we won't have a chance in this legislature, but I leave this note: we'll get it back next time. And I invite the political forces that rejected it in the past to consider this solution. Having said that, it is important to bear in mind that this debate is not zero. In the balance sheet of recent years, I would like to stress — in this last speech of this debate, I imagine, on the part of the Socialist Party — that none of the advances in animal welfare have been made against, or in the absence, or without the participation of the Socialist Party. On the contrary: the criminalization of the ill-treatment of pets in 2014, 2015, and revised in 2020 ; changes to the Civil Code which introduced the nature of the animals themselves, was also by the hands of the Socialist Party that it was achieved; the end of the slaughter in the canis; various avulsive materials that have already been discussed and analysed here ; the animals of the circus; the purchase and sale of animals; the mergers of databases; the prohibition of shooting to pigeon as a sport activity; access to establishments and planned by whom it is intended, when the establishments agree; the transport of pets in public transport in certain circumstances; the subject of review and support to the CROs at various times; fiscal measures; the national strategy against the abandonment and promotion of responsible adoption. All examples in which, when called upon to equate, or rather, to balance animal welfare with other values, it has always been possible to do so. Did we all agree with the solution at the end of the day? Certainly not, but this is the nature of the democratic debate and the way it was built and, therefore, this debate today is another step forward in this direction. We were able to identify three or four aspects in which the Assembly will probably be able to produce legislation on which some minimum consensus exists — the matter relating to collars, which has been discussed here; the matter on an extraordinary sterilization campaign; and even an old project on the Community animal, which provides additional instruments to local power and associations that, on the ground, treat animal welfare in order to carry out their mission. I take advantage, in fact, to note precisely those who are often forgotten, and are thousands, tens of thousands of people throughout the country, who voluntarily spend their time in the front line ensuring the reception, the well-being, the collection of food and the protection that must be given. It is therefore important for Parliament to be able, unanimously, to say here, to welcome these animal associations and the work which, on a voluntary basis, every day of the year, they do in the interests of animal welfare. Finally, one last aspect of what the NAP also brings us to the discussion and that we will not follow, which is the subject of the extraordinary assumption of constitutional review powers. Much has already been said, but let the position of the Socialist Party be made clear. In substance, it is not yet clear that it is absolutely essential, in order to solve the problems that have been placed before the Constitutional Court, to have to review the Constitution. We do not yet know what will be the decision under abstract supervision that the Court will take on this matter, so let us wait with caution and patience, and there are still signs that there will probably be no adherence to the solutions of the previous judgments and that the answer can even be positive. From another perspective, in fact, a constitutional review process is in progress, even if it is to end. And even if you can legitimately graft or create an autonomous constitutional review process, the appropriate time for this has passed long ago. That is, we are in the immediate vicinity of a dissolution and, indeed, today's debate is strictly platonic. Even if it were not, there would or would be a constitutional review process where this matter could be resolved and in which — and with this end — the overwhelming majority of the parties who presented constitutional revision projects — and the NAP also presented, therefore we decided a constitutional review process, all contributing — had this matter in their projects, and even those who had not noted that they would follow the measures in this matter. Therefore, if there is anything about the constitutional review that we can withdraw from this debate, we all try to maintain the compromise we had identified during this legislature. We continue to try to build balance between subjects that are sometimes simple, and others not so much, but accepting that the democratic debate over the past decade has brought so many things and so many civil advantages to the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u198	To close the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in 2014, bad-treatment of pet animals was criminalized, we did so because civil society so complained, having a petition was submitted at the time, which brought together more than 100,000 signatures. And, from there to here, more than 14,000 complaints of ill-treatment to pets have been registered. Has the law been perfectly applied? No, you don't. We simply look at cases such as that of Boris, who died after months of being left without food in the achievement of his house, right here next to the French Peninsula, to realize the gaps that the law had and which led to legislative changes over the course of several years. But the Assembly of the Republic cannot be indifferent to this reality and to the frustration of those who see the criminal protection and its maintenance threatened, or those who are on the ground and every day, without exception, have to deal with barbaric cases of ill-treatment of pets, with abandonment and with the worst side of which the human being is capable, which is to mistreat an extremely vulnerable animal. This is more than a debate on animal protection: it is also a debate on social protection, on the most vulnerable people and on support for associations; it is also a debate where the political will of each of the forces represented in this House is seen; and it is also a debate where we have the opportunity to bring animal protection to the 21st century and not only shake it as a flag in electoral times. More than 90 000 people have already asked us, they have challenged us to guarantee this protection. Every year, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than 42 000 animals are abandoned, only in accordance with official data, without even talking about animals by animal protection associations. That is why it is so important that they take these steps and do not close their eyes to the warnings of civil society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here today equate them with the dignity of the human person. We have heard Pope Francis quote to criticize proposals such as those we bring here and aim to ensure greater animal protection, but also of people. And, yes, today more than 50% of families have pets and feed on them the greatest affection and esteem, and also associations suffer every day when they see an animal lost to the hands of injustice or inapplicability of the law. What cannot be granted is civilizational retrogressions, and that is why, to conclude, I say: this principle, which must be questioned here, should have been the quote of Pope Francis, when he reminds us, in his encyclical Laudato Yes, that it is contrary to the dignity of the human person to make animals feel useless and to have their lives available. The debate we should be having here was a broader debate on the abolition of anachronistic practices such as tauromachia and not on the setbacks that lie on the table. Today, we have the opportunity to make progress, and it is in our hands, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, make sure we make the difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u200	That is how we close our debate and we will start the votes. I remind everyone that the last vote is electronic. This means that, for the purposes of registration of presence, it is the electronic vote that counts. We will check the quorum, of course, in principle, but for the purposes of registration of presence it is the electronic vote it counts. I would ask the services to begin the quorum verification period. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. We have quorum, we can vote. I ask for silence, we are now voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u201	This is a clown!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u202	Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, I would also ask you to behave. It's in the plenary! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u203	It's hard, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u204	It's hard, but there's a lot of hard things in life that we have to do. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] We shall then proceed to the vote. Bill No. 412 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the scheme of deficiencies justified at work on the grounds of death or assistance to pets. The NAP has submitted a requirement for it to go down to 10. the Commission, without a vote, for 15 days. Let's vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 456 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Regulates the holding and training of pet animals, sealing the marketing and use of « shock collars » and « strangulation collars », making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October 2001. [[The vote was taken by votes to IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and 3 PS (Alexandra Leitão, Carla Sousa and Pedro Delgado Alves) and PS, PSD and CH abstentions.]] This project goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 662 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Recognizes the figure of the Community animal and promotes the realization of an extraordinary campaign to sterilize errant animals. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions against the CH, IL, PCP and PS Pedro do Carmo, were adopted.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 945 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Taking on extraordinary constitutional review powers by the Assembly of the Republic to ensure the consecration of animal protection in the Constitution. It is an electronic vote and I would like to point out that Mr Miguel Iglesias is taking part in this vote by remote means. [[When put to the vote, he did not get the required four-fifths majority, with 182 votes against (PS, PSD, PCP and L), 18 votes in favour (CH, BE and PAN) and 5 abstentions (IL).]] Mr Rui Tavares, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u205	Mr President, it is to announce the submission of a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u206	Nobody wants to know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-13.u207	The next plenary session will be tomorrow, with the agenda set by the PSD on the state of public services. Thank you very much and good night, the session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 5 minutes.]]
