ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u1	Good afternoon to all of you and to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. The table greets you very much. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by taking your seats and creating conditions for the start of our work. From now on, I like to inform VV. Ex. that today's work will be long and will spread in the afternoon and even, some say, at the beginning of the night, so adjust the hours of your dinners. That being the case, I ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] Now that silence is already being done in the Chamber, I ask you to give your greatest attention and your greatest respect to the announcements that our colleague, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, will make. The information that will pass on to us is important. You have the floor, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u2	Mr President, I am announcing an opinion coming from 14. the Commission, which shall deal with the following : « 1. [...] Mário Sérgio Quaremas Gonçalves Marques (Electoral Circle of Madeira) renounces the mandate, assuming the mandate of João Dinis Santos Ramos (Electoral Circle of Madeira), with effect from January 16, 2023, including. 2. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate, João Dinis Santos Ramos, is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, as presented in the list of votes in Madeira. 3. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. 4. in this regard, the Commission intends to deliver the following opinion: The resignation of Mr Mário Quaresma Gonçalves Marques fulfils the legal requirements, assuming the mandate of João Dinis Santos Ramos, with effect from 16 January 2023, including. Do not keep on seeking. ” This opinion must be voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u3	In accordance with the rules of procedure, we must vote on this opinion, and I therefore ask them to create the conditions for this. [[Pause.]] Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u4	Mr. President, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 491 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, and 492 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 390 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 391 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 392 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 393 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 396 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 397 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 398 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. It's all in terms of announcements, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let me now remind you of the agenda for today: we will begin with an urgent debate, required by the parliamentary group of the Arrival, on "crimes and demands of teachers" — in fact, we greet the members of the Government who have just arrived; then we will have political declarations; and then there will be even more two points on the agenda, the first on Question No 279 / XIV / 2. a and the second concerning Petition No 321 / XIV/ 3. the, with which legislative initiatives will be dragged. If you will allow me, even before we get on the agenda, I am pleased to announce to the plenary the presence, in the gallery, of the President of the Parliament of Albania, Lindita Nikola, who is in the Assembly of the Republic on a working visit, and of its delegation, which we are greatly honored. I would ask for a warm greeting from the honourable Members. Members to the President of the Parliament of Albania. [[General applause, stand up.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are then in a position to move immediately to the first item on the agenda, which consists of the urgent debate required by the parliamentary group of arriving on « strikes and demands of teachers ». For the opening of the debate, the honourable Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival André Ventura has a six-minute meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u6	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Education and other Members. Government members : « I have been a teacher for 34 years and in the last 12 years, I have increased €20. "When I entered the teaching career, I was able to make an extraordinary journey. I only got involved at the end of 22 years. Do not keep on seeking. ” « I have a frozen career and I am going as if I were a street vendor, from land to land, to receive an ordained land, which does not even serve to pay for the two roofs I have to have: one of weekend and one of week, more than 600 km, go and return, which I have to do, weekly, to be with the family. Today, any other profession compensates. The teacher's, unfortunately, has long stopped compensating. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u8	Mr. Minister, I would like you to know these testimonies, because they are neither mine nor anyone in this House, are teachers and education professionals, who have gone out on the streets and have given, over the past few days, an amazing and incredible witness to what is the degradation of teaching, teachers and school. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u9	This is what we have had on the part of the government. The career of teachers, the career of education professionals, has been frozen for years. It is probably the most flagrant injustice situation we have in Portugal in terms of career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u10	Races have been frozen for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u11	And it must never be forgotten that who, for the first time, frozen the teachers' career was not the PSD, it was not the Arrival, it was not the Liberal Initiative, nor was it any other right party. Whoever frozen the teachers' career has a name, called the Socialist Party, at the time when he was Prime Minister José Socrates. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Of course, others chose to maintain the same system of freezing and injustice in which we had retained the teachers. Of course, others chose, the government behind the government, not to pay housing allowances, not to pay the distances that teachers had to travel, not to update and restore the time of service. Others, who should have assumed responsibility for teachers, hid themselves from them and ignored us in public opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u13	Others today, Prime Ministers, threatened political crises when the dignity of teachers was at stake, as if the dignity of teaching was something that could be mercenized. We ask our teachers everything: we ask them to teach, we ask them to value the school, whether it is public or private, we ask them to represent the future of our children. But when they are attacked, there is no parliamentary group that remembers them. When they are attacked, we run looking for justifications for the bandit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u15	... but we never get justifications for those poor men and women, who, teaching and giving their lives, are attacked on average twice every week, a fact that should shame a whole country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Minister is not negotiating, he is pretending to negotiate with unions, teachers and education professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u16	Sure! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u17	You put red lines before you enter the negotiating room, you say what you are going to do, but you know it is Fernando Medina who, at the end, sends in everything, to the point the Prime Minister himself said that there are no meetings without the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u19	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u20	You are not the Minister of Education, you are a servant of the Minister of Finance in this government. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u21	Liar and scoundrel!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u22	We're still losing teachers. The school year of 2022-2023 began with 60 000 students without at least one of the teachers — 60 000 students did not have at least one of the teachers —... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... strikes are prolonged indefinitely and thousands of teachers have dropped for medical and psychological reasons. This has a responsibility, and the government official is Mr. Minister of Education. While you're sitting there responding to this Parliament, I'm sure that, in some district of the country, you're a teacher delivering another certificate of discharge, you're a teacher being assaulted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u24	...you're looking at when you're going up in your career and there's some probably being cleared because you can't afford the house you have to pay near the school where you teach. The lack of teachers brings together the lack of employees and degraded schools, where it rains and the classes do not have the minimum conditions for having classes with dignity. Mr. Minister and other Mrs. Members of the government, we all know that one of the main struggles of teachers is the replacement of the full time of their careers. This replacement is a question of justice, but it is above all in times when inflation is a matter of dignity. According to the figures we have, and the Minister considers it unbearable, to restore the full time of service of teachers would cost between EUR 800 million and EUR 900 million to the national coffers. The money is high, the cost on taxpayers and above all we would be high. But, Minister, when we have a Ministry of Health that wastes EUR 1000 million per year, how do we not give teachers 800 million to count their time of service? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] When we bury at TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) 3, 9 billion euros, when we give the New Bank, BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ) and so many other billions of euros, how do we, as politicians, face to look at teachers and say "We have no money to count your time of service"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u25	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u26	I shall finish, Mr President, with the following words: yes, Mr Minister, Mr STOP (Union of All the Professionals of Education)! Stop the degradation of careers, stop your ministerial arrogance, stop the loss of purchasing power, stop the indiscipline and the aggression that teachers suffer, stop this destructive direction that the government wants to create.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u28	Stop, on behalf of the teachers, on behalf of the teaching and on behalf of the school, that the government wants to destroy! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u29	Having no requests for clarification from Mr Andre Ventura, we are entering the debate period at the end of which, I inform the House already, the Minister for Education will intervene. The Bureau therefore records for the time being the registration of Mrs Joana Mortágua by the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u30	Mr President, Minister : In the face of the problems that were evident in public school, the government chose to refuse — deny, deny, deny — and, when we warned that teachers were missing, when we warned that there was a barrel of powder about to explode, what the government did was deny. When reality became too obvious to be denied, what the government preferred to do was to attack the teachers' strike. Now, between the denial and the attack, what he did was not to realize how essential it is to stop asking why teachers are on strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u32	The teachers' backs are very wide, but they are not enough to bear the blame of the government for the state to which the public school arrived. Apacio da Novoa recently wrote: ‘[...] the rule has been indifference or even forgetting, when not any hostility, in relation to teachers. And this reality, which Sampaio of the Novoa so well described, is not a reality that can be denied by Mr. Minister. Certainly, it is a reality that teachers can no longer deny. What happened was that the government stretched the rope, stretched it so long that it broke it and, when it broke the rope, thousands and thousands of teachers went out on the street saying that they don't comply, that they won't shut up and that they don't quit public school. This issue is absolutely essential, because there is nothing more radical or more disproportionate to the country than the ruinous situation in which the Government of the Socialist Party placed the public school: on the verge of having no teachers to guarantee the future. With regard to public school, the government does less than it has promised and promises more than it does! In view of the evidence that none of this is enough, in view of the evidence that the teachers are struggling, because there is no other alternative left, the Prime Minister has come to say that the role of the government is not to solve strikes. So who has the function of solving this strike? Whose role is it to solve the problems of public school? So, Minister, I can only tell you today one thing: do what you have to do! Correct the shot that was fired in 2019 by PS and PSD in the Assembly of the Republic when they refused to recognize the time of service to teachers; end the vacancies for the 5th. a is 7. the steps; link all teachers who have to link, not as a weapon of exchange against teachers' rights to their career, but because the public school needs these teachers; support teachers in household and transport expenses. Mr Minister for Education, if Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, say that saving public school is no longer worth any more and that there is no more tostoon to save it, think which side is he wants to stay on, because the country is also deciding whether his taxes will pay wages to teachers, or whether his taxes will finance millionaire awards to private business managers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Joana Mortagua. Before speaking to the next speaker, I ask for a little more serenity, because it was very noisy and it was great the effort that Mrs Joana Mortagua had to make to reach the end of her speech. I therefore ask for your cooperation and availability in this regard. Now, yes, I am in a position to give the floor by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group to Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u34	Mr President, Mr Minister and other government members, Mr. Members: This urgent debate has been scheduled because it is considered that the government has been unable or is unable to respond to teachers' demands. Unfortunately, it is not only the teachers' demands that the government is unable to respond. However, I suppose the Minister of Education was surprised by this request for urgent debate, because apparently in the debates we have here in the House, it seems that everything is all right. Since the beginning of this year, « achievements » have been highlighted, as everything is well in education, namely, since 2018, a step 98, 5 % of teachers have progressed, and 90 % have progressed two steps ; that in December 2022, were 16 % teachers at the top of the career ; that teaching teams have strengthened themselves ; that hours have been strengthened for the direction of work ; that a better disbursation has been achieved. Finally, scenarios, scenarios, scenarios! It is clear that, unlike international data, in which everything points to the degradation of teaching derived from the pandemic in Portugal, the results of the IAVE (Instituto de Evaluación Educação educativa ) arrive to indicate an improvement in learning. These are the data! So perhaps, there is even a surprise about teachers' demands and about the state of education and the complaint in general. But what is not really talked about is the deep and evil portrait in which the state of education is nowadays. A fair dialogue would recognize that mono-doctors work almost 7 hours a week more than colleagues in 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary, which are still six years, six months and 23 days of work by rest, that the evaluation of teachers is amorphous and ineffective, that we have teachers administer medication to children because there are no nurses in schools, that we have teachers with a very degraded mental health status, that specialized superior technicians spend years on edge in precarious conditions, that there is a huge lack of transparency in the process of teachers mobility, that the mental stress levels of teachers are dramatic. The Liberal Initiative considers that there is a lack of courage in the government, that there is a lack of courage to introduce changes in assessments, that there is a lack of courage to reform, that there is a lack of courage in the eternal pass-backs. Ideological prejudice speaks higher. The government continues to insist on centralism and ruptures. Do you think, Minister, teachers would spend these days in the cold, in the rain, if everything was all right? The public school is in crisis, but the whole education system is in crisis and this scenario puts children and teachers at stake. It was no longer enough to have been one of the countries that had more time closed schools during the pandemic as, now, in 2023, the students will continue to be without classes. Students and teachers continue to be harmed. Education policy is not serving either one or the other. It shocks us the government's inertia, it shocks us what little is being done. In 2019, Mr. Prime Minister threatened to resign before a replacement time scenario, saying it was unsustainable. Threats, fun maneuvers, pass-backs—that's what we have, delays, rather than solutions. And we expect everything! Finally, the time has come for once if you have the real courage and reform. Not acting is also a choice. The policy of inertia is a bad policy, especially when politics needs to move forward. I end with a sentence said yesterday by the Minister: respect is always a subjective dimension. What is objective is the concern we have, either with the teachers or with the children's future. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u35	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u36	Mr President, Minister : We are here today in an urgent debate, convened by a party that had no urgency to change its programme, which, until a couple of years ago, had simply registered the abolition of public school as a service provided by the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u37	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u38	... that demands things from the Ministry of Education, but that until 2021 had in its program the extinction of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u39	Ask the question, don't be vassal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u40	However, we should not be surprised at the inconsistency of those who cheat on politics. We must ask ourselves, and that question is for the Minister, how can we make excuses for those who do so, not negotiating. [[CH protests.]] This should be when it should be pleased to show in public that it negotiates, in order to dignify the demands of an entire class, such as that of the teachers. Going further, in addition to negotiating with the unions, should make true general states of education with teachers, yes, but also with education officials, with autarchs, with civil society, to allow Portugal, finally, to embrace this challenge and be able to tell young people who have a vocation to teach...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u41	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u42	...that what they see every day on TV won't go on like this...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u43	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u44	... and that they may have good reasons to want to embrace the career of teaching and not to run away from it, which is the will that, at this moment, they look at the news, certainly, will.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u45	Great contribution to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u46	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate the request for silence and moderation in language and sound. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real wants to speak and does not have the right conditions and she wants to have the conditions we all have. You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the members of the Government here present. Public school is absolutely essential, it is an opportunity and equality in access to training and education, without which many children and young people would not have the same learning opportunities in our country. But the public school is formed by teachers and non-teachers, whose appreciation is absolutely essential. So they give every day to the future of our society, teachers deserve respect, gratitude and professional dignity and do not deserve to be accused — and here I am also addressing the Minister of Education for misinformation or manipulation. Everyone has the right to strike, everyone has the right to protest and we must all live in democracy with the same right and, above all, we must all know how to dialogue and hear, even if that dialogue can be difficult, Minister. The EUR 100 million package, already announced by the government, brings some progress that we recognize can be important but still insufficient. In fact, not only do they fall short of the 15 % target of public expenditure in education, as recommended by UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), as they will not solve the more than six years of service that are seen by the government as if they had never existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u48	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u49	I really am concluding, Mr President. Nor does it put an end to the model of progression in the career that causes teachers to take 120 years to reach the top, as it does not prevent teachers to have to walk 10 to 15 years with the house on their backs or to be placed hundreds of miles away from home, without their allowance for accommodation/dislocation, or that the competition for mobility in disease ends up like this, i.e., a contest instead of a right. So, Minister of Education, what we would like to ask you is what will change these formulas and correct some of the priorities that teachers have been pointing out.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u50	The Bureau appreciates your cooperation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because the afternoon is going to be long. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor now by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Education : Teachers struggle for the enhancement of their career, profession and public school. It is a struggle that is not today, it is already many years old, and it is in fact the result of disinvestment in public school, the degradation over the years of career and the devaluation of the teaching profession. What is required of the government is a response to the structural problems facing the public school today, as well as the demands of teachers. But that was not the option of the government. What the government has announced does not respond to these problems and does not meet the demands. So what the government is witnessing is a refusal to respond to these problems, and if nothing is done, what will happen is the continued degradation of the conditions of public school. The government insists on not accounting for the hours of service provided by the teachers, it insists on blackout. Mr. Minister said he can't solve the past. Yes! Maybe, if you like. Nothing prevents all the time of service provided by teachers to be accounted for for for progression. In fact, that is what would be fair, that is what teachers claim, i.e. that they do not delete the time that has been worked and that the same is considered for the purposes of progress. The question is whether the minister and the government want or not. It seems to us that they do not want, on a matter of choice, for lack of political will and for nothing else. The Government continues to block access to 5. a is 7. The steps. Mr Minister, there are thousands of teachers who, by meeting the criteria, will not be able to progress, because not all vacancies are open for this to happen. What is required is in fact to eliminate access quotas and to ensure the progression of all those who are able to make progress towards 5. a is 7. The steps. The Government continues to impose an unfair disease mobility regime. There are about 3000 teachers in a disease situation who, due to government imposition, do not have an approach to the area of residence for treatment or follow-up by the family. The Government continues to fail to take effective measures to combat precariousness. Minister, the average time to enter the career is 16 years, the average age of a teacher when he enters the career is 46 years. In the face of the lack of teachers and the number of expected retirements, which continue to increase, the formation of new teachers does not replace the number of retired teachers and the question is that, if nothing is done, the number of students without teachers to all disciplines will continue to increase. In view of this reality, the truth is that, as far as career is concerned, there are no measures in the sense of their valorization. So the question I would like to ask is this: what is the strategy? What effective answers is that the government has to give — not those announced yesterday! — to value the career and the teaching profession? [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u52	Mrs Deputy has no time to answer, but she has a request for clarification from Mr Ventura, Mr Ventura, who, I imagine, does not lack this request for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u53	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, it is a bit confusing to hear the PCP, and also the Left Block, to talk about the issue of teachers' struggles when they approved five or six budgets of the Socialist Party. [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u54	No, it's true. I'm sorry, but it's not fake. They approved five or six budgets of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u55	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u56	In fact, Mrs.Deputy, I have here a news from 2018 where Mr. Secretary-General of the PCP, Jerónimo de Sousa, says that he understands the teachers' struggles, but that he cannot, or will, condition the vote of the Budget and the stability of the country to count the time of service of the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u58	That is: you sold the stability you wanted with the Socialist Party to the teachers' struggles.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u60	And now that they no longer support the government, they say they attack the teachers! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares said in 2018 that the Left Block « has already promised that if the Government continues to push forward» — alas, my God, what such a big threat! — 'The Block will not let this happen. » Pedro Filipe Soares said: « Now that it will be, let's solve the issue of time in the 2019 Budget. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Only it passed the 2019 Budget, the 2020 Budget and had already been 2018, the 2017 Budget, the 2016 Budget. There were strikes in 2016, 2017, 2018. All budgets have been approved and supported by your vows, and I have not seen any indignation! And now they're angry with the government? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by the MP of PCP Paula Santos and the MEP of BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] I mean, whoever frozen the teachers' time of service was the PS, but when you entered into management, you could have said "or this changes or we left. But, no, they preferred the comfort of PS support to fight for teachers and education and now come to say « ai, ai, Jesus! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u61	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u62	It is not « alas, alas, Jesus », the responsibility is not only of the PS! The PCP and the Left Block also have responsibility in this fight! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u63	Mr President, this is not a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u64	When they were armed with the Rabbit Steps was that it was all a sea of roses!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u65	Speak up in your turn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u66	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the Socialist Party now speaks for one speech. [[PCP protests and CH counter-protests.]] I would ask that the conditions be created for Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are having today and the period we are living, with the expressions of discontent of the teachers, call us to the responsibility of not letting ourselves be taken for the timeliness of the moment. It is our responsibility to hear what these professionals, who build the public school every day, want to tell us, and we need to be clear in this debate that at no time can we allow, as a society, to create the image that the teachers who manifest themselves are the enemy. It is essential that we collectively achieve that this moment does not translate into a divorcing between public opinion and the teaching class, and it is also essential to say that, in the project of public school, the differences that exist need to be resolved without antagonizing the image of a structuring professional class for the country, of men and women and dedicated to a profoundly demanding career, subject to enormous challenges and instability that profoundly harm their lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Speaking in careers presupposes a fundamental step that has to go ahead with any discussion, because there are thousands of precarious teachers hired to whom their rights of progress and stability have been sealed. We do not forget, nor do we let them forget, that we reduce the bond by the norm-work from five to three years of full and annual hours, nor do we let the two extraordinary bonds be forgotten. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] But despite all the advances made in recent years, and of the more than 14,000 teachers linked since 2016, hired teachers continue to be too long to link. It is too long without stability, without progress and to be received by the base of the career. We can certainly move forward and certainly do so in the recruitment model. It is necessary to approach and reduce the distance of placement of teachers. The existing recruitment model is not fixed in territories and does not offer stability. Pedagogic zone tables ( PQ ) have an over-extended geographical area. We must move forward in the fight against instability and precariousness, and we must therefore look at this negotiating process with the expectation of those who know that there is still much to be done. It should be recalled that the negotiating process that triggered these demonstrations was opened by the government, knowing that it would always be a matter of great sensitivity, but absolutely necessary. This is because to change what is wrong it is necessary to make decisions, even when they are difficult. Nevertheless, we open this process because we have the conviction that it is possible to move forward in the dignity of the teaching class with dialogue and with the openness of those who believe that a commitment is possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is possible to move forward, as we advanced with the defreezing of careers in 2018, which means that 98, 5 % of teachers have progressed at least one step and 90 % of these have progressed two steps. It is possible to move forward, as we have advanced in the reduction of the norm-work from five to three years, as we have advanced in the binding of 14 500 teachers since 2016, as we propose to move forward again. Yesterday's proposals are not the point of arrival, but they are undoubtedly an important starting point. In justice, it is not possible to ignore some of the proposed advances: the linkage of 10 500 teachers is not irrelevant; the reorganization of the 10 tables of teaching area to 63 QZP smaller is not irrelevant; the correction of surpluses and the strengthening of placement by graduated list is not irrelevant; the change to the rates of remuneration for hired teachers is not irrelevant; the extension of vacancies in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps are not irrelevant. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty not to deny difficulties and acknowledge problems, but it is also our duty to ensure the balance and sustainability of the measures. It is to move forward that this negotiating process is open by the government and is under way. It is to move forward that we are government and that is why we will continue to do, in dialogue and spirit of openness, with the commitment of always, what we have done here, by a school for all and by the dignity of the careers of those who build it every day, and by a Portugal of science, culture and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u68	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u69	Mr President, Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, I will focus on an initial part of your speech. I'm sorry if I don't quote to myself words that I said, but I'm going to try to quote the idea that you tried to transmit to the beginning. At one point he said he hoped that this moment of some tension in the education sector, with the teachers, would be managed in a way that would not — and this is where I will try to quote his idea — to create social friction between teachers and families. He will have said anything like « not create a hostility of society towards teachers. Do not keep on seeking. ” I have noted your concern and, as I have noted, your concern, which we have subscribed to, I would like to ask you how you have seen the action of the Government, when you have requested an opinion from the Attorney-General of the Republic on the legality of the strikes that the teachers are doing and have made this public in the way you have done it. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Because if this is not to create friction, distrust and hostility between families and teachers, between teachers and society, then I don't know how the government will meet the objective mentioned in the rostrum. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u70	To reply, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your request for clarification. In fact, it is very clear to us that this is not a war against teachers and, basically, the question that you put does not go to the substance of what we are focused on solving. The right to strike is a constitutionally planned and regulated right. As the unions did, the government also asked for clarification on the legality of these strikes. But, for us, that is not the bottom line, the bottom line is the teachers' objective concerns. We need teachers for public school... [[Now?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u72	... and we are committed to improving the teaching activity, the quality of their careers. That's what we're betting on doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u73	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u74	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members : Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, thank you very much and well for your intervention, because she has proved that, indeed, the government and PS are really on their backs. So, I'm glad you came here to confirm what we all suspected. [[PSD applause.]] The teachers are tired, old, exhausted and demotivated. Public school is at stake. It's seven years of promises, instability and saturation. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Minister, this country is not for teachers or for students. This was a proof that also left us. For seven years the Government has ignored teachers, educational policies, working conditions, bureaucratic burden and their career. In short, he was unable to solve any of the problems of the education system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u75	In seven years, the government proved that, after all, public school was not a passion, even a priority. In seven years of bad memory, we saw the dismantling of public school and, in this way, the Minister caused an irreparable damage to the social elevator. This is the portrait of education in Portugal: changes in education policy, increasing bureaucracy, lack of working conditions for teachers and the entire educational community, to the detriment of the educational mission, which is access to knowledge and learning. The path of facilitation—as Mr Minister well knows—has proved to be bad, and yet this week the Portuguese Society of Mathematics has come to accuse him of "strengthening mathematics in secondary education to unexplained historical minimums. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u76	Nuno Crato? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u77	Here, the government uses a persecution tone against the teachers. It fears the class, uses students and families as a political weapon against teachers and an entire educational community and still claims the illegality of strikes. But this is not new, because you have already tested this type of coercion against the teaching class with mobility for disease, as you well know, without any suspicion being confirmed to date. So there is no stone left on stone and the compressor roller took everything. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] We are concerned about the inability of the Ministry of Education to complete the negotiation process with the teaching class and call for a serious, thoughtful and good faith dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u78	PSD has nothing to say about anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u79	It is recalled that the school year began with 60 000 students without a teacher at least one discipline, and that we resumed 2. the school period with about 20,000 students without classes and without teachers at least one discipline. Of course, the Portuguese are concerned. The high number of lessons lost in the pandemic was not enough, so far we are also witnessing the growing disturbing environment caused by the Minister as a result of the incendiary zigzag and the statements he has made with regard to all this dissatisfaction of the teachers. So we ask : will it or will it not strengthen the Learning Recovery Plan in the face of everything we have attended? The School Plan +, as you know, is a "less school" plan because it has fewer teachers, less learning, but more grids, more roles and more vulnerable students and delivered to their fate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u81	The number of candidates for initial teacher training courses has also fallen by about 70% and, in the last 10 years, 10 000 vocational teachers have left the education system — it is 10 000, it is not little! In 2017 and again in 2019, the PS promised to study the recruitment model for stabilisation of the teaching body. What happened, Minister? Nothing. Once again the teachers were required, and the entire educational community, in solidarity, came to the streets, for the Minister to sit at the negotiating table, not without having also been the target of a handful of ears from the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u83	He also promised to create incentives to increase the attractiveness of careers. What happened? Nothing, Minister. Now, in January 2023, the Prime Minister announces that the other Costa, the Minister of Education, will again present a set of proposals to solve the problem of teachers and from home to back. I wish you were successful in this mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u84	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u85	The PSD is supportive of teachers and the educational community and, of course, awaits the conclusion of the negotiations. But according to the already known reactions, Mr Minister, we are afraid to stand before a set of 'nothings', which is very little. The country claims that the profession of teacher is dignified. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It is to be remembered, Mr. Deputies, because the PS usually has moments of collective amnesia in this House. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese want the school to take place, that education be treated as a pillar of democracy and that the teacher's mission be recognized. But can we not stop asking, Minister: will you or will you not value your teaching career through professional stability? Will it or will it not take measures to counter the lack of teachers, attract new professionals and strengthen the initial training of teachers? Will it or will it not present measures to attract the professional teachers who, in the meantime, have left the teaching system? Will you or will you not start the discussion on the model of teacher assessment, valuing the profession and career? Will you or will you not value the salary at the beginning of the teaching career? Will it or will it not create tax and wage incentives for the setting of teachers in low density areas and large metropolises? Are you going to reduce the bureaucratic burden or not? Is this time you're going or not? Or are we going to continue to watch ironic smiles when we talk about serious things, democracy and the future of the country in Portugal? Yesterday he presented a package of measures, Mr Minister, but he failed to tell you whether teachers have the right to believe that it is this time that he will contradict seven years of loneliness and seven years of a monologue... [[PSD applause.]] ... in which he did not hear anyone and was not available to solve any of the problems of the teaching class.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u86	It's asking the unions if they leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u87	For now, we know that, until today, the government's educational policy deserves nothing but lead. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u88	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I repeat what I said to you — in 12 years, €20 increase. I ask you if this makes sense in some profession in this country. In 12 years, 20 € increase! So the PS conversation that recovered two years when nine had been lost is the same as taking the televisions all out of someone's house, taking them to the backyard and then bringing two inside and saying: « See how good we are, we put two TVs back inside your house. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u90	How many TVs do you have at home? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u91	This is what PS does to education professionals. Mr Minister, since 1 September 2000 applications for medical leave have been made — 2000, since 1 September 2000. 60 000 students started the year without any training at any discipline. In 2010 we had almost 180 000 teachers and in 2010 was the Socialist Party government. In 2021, we have just over 150 000 and the Socialist Party is government. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Approximately 30 000 teachers have been emigranting, leaving because of this government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u92	When he was from the PSD, he beat his hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u93	And so it is amazing to see how the left is mobilized to defend the Socialist Party. We have even had the Free Member—that not stop being the PS spokesman! — to say: "Oh, they want to destroy the public school. Do not keep on seeking. ” Moreover, when he came to the debate of the State budget, he brought eight proposals for education. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The work of Rui Tavares on education is this: eight proposals. Look, Mr, there are more than 60 people that this group, behind me, has done! This is for you to learn how you work in education. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr Minister, to a left that does not work or wants to work, we will continue here to demand answers and we will demand that you respond to the thousands of teachers who continue to have no future. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Assaults, the future, careers: responsibility is yours, but if you can't solve it, you have an easy way:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u94	It's leaving!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u95	...the door is over there and the exit of Parliament is right here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u96	I'm the only Member! It's math, you're 12!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u97	Come here in the middle!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u98	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have come to this debate at a time of challenge by the teachers, who are concerned about us and who are accompanied by their dissatisfaction, but also by the disturbance these strikes have brought to all of us — families and, in particular, students. We saw this debate at the request of a party, the Arrival, whose electoral programme I read with interest. The program with which the arrival has been presented in recent legislation says the following about teacher careers: nothing, strictly nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u100	On the contrary, it is a programme that once again affirms the will to make public school only one offer, with the explicit, and here well mentioned, purpose of diverting public money to private schools, as has already been done in the past,... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] ... in the time when Mr. André Ventura was still militant of the party that ruled, with great pride,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u101	That's history!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u102	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u103	... and was, in due time, corrected by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] unlike the Arrival, the governments of the Socialist Party did not turn their backs on the public school. [[CH protests.]] They assume it as one of the main achievements of democratic Portugal, in its role of openness to all, not selecting students at the entrance, ensuring protection and education to the most vulnerable and constituting itself as the engine that made Portugal, today, have never reached a number of graduates, researchers, scientists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u104	No unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u105	...and that companies have innovation and technology. It was with the public school that arrived here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government is currently in negotiations with teachers' representatives, giving the resolution of old issues the highest priority:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u106	It's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u107	... end the house behind, approaching the teachers of the places where they want to work, setting them in school frames, reducing the geographical areas of placement, binding hired teachers, recognizing them as permanent needs of the system, valuing their wage condition and contributing with good management tools so that binding, fixing and approaching are also powerful tools to deal with the lack of teachers. Therefore, we have placed on the negotiating table the passage of the current 10 tables of teaching area to 63,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u109	... ensuring, in more than 95 % of cases, maximum distances of 50 km, going beyond the proposals presented to us by the unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u111	We also discussed the agility of the mechanisms of exchange between teachers, by mutual agreement, to enhance the approach to residence; the resolution of problems of over-employment in placements and connections; the stabilization of teachers in school frameworks—booking the pedagogical zone frameworks for non-permanent substitutions and needs of schools—; the setting of teachers, interrupting the obligation to compete for those who are satisfied with the place of supply, opening vacancies dynamically as they arise; the change of the conditions of linkage, accounting for the time of service accumulated and introducing a dynamic linkage process that will enable more than 10,500 teachers to link, this year, with the consequent replacement in career and wage recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what Mrs. Joana Mortagua wants, the Socialist Party no longer wants extraordinary links. The Socialist Party wants a permanent and definitive structural linkage,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u112	... the introduction of three pay rates for hired teachers and the deburocratization of teachers' activities. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] The government is solving old problems of teachers in good faith negotiation, integrating suggestions and proposals already received at previous meetings, listening to the voice and proposals of teachers, in a movement of approach to various claims. This will of dialogue and negotiation has never been interrupted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u113	It's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u114	It is time to regain serenity, to continue to negotiate and, above all, to ensure that, after two years of pandemic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u115	It's the pandemic's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u116	...the schools work normally, so that we don't have a third school year with learning losses. We have heard everything during this debate — catastrophic portraits of the public school, which only demean the work of professionals, as if the public school did not have a past and a gift of success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We dare say: many of those here who are critical of public school studied happily in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u117	But who spoke in public school?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u118	You want to ask: how are you here? How did they get here if the public school in Portugal is so bad?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u119	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u120	We have heard intransigent positions, incompatible with the good faith of a negotiating process, without real concern about the sustainability of the measures or other careers, apparent solidarity with the teachers, of whom he has already cut pay in the past, of whom he has cut subsidies, of whom he has fired 28 000 teachers and now has a solidarity to try to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, we don't lose memory, Mrs. Sonia Ramos. Do you have any proposals for this debate? No, no, no. Your election program shows well: you have no proposal for teachers' career. [[CH protests.]] Your program speaks for itself. He is, as always, merely sailing the wave of discontent. on our side, we continue in dialogue...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u121	It's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u122	... constructive, serene, and committed to solving the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u123	Look at the teachers' reaction!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u124	They're leaving!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u125	Mr Minister, you have a request for clarification, but you no longer have time to answer. Assuming that the BE Parliamentary Group does not abdicate its request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, in 2019, Parliament, the Socialist Party had the opportunity to return to the teachers as long as it had been frozen. What happened was that the PSD gave in to the Prime Minister's blackmail and the PSD prevented the teachers' time from being recovered in this Parliament. It is exciting to see how the Arrival comes here to wash the image of the PSD in this process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u127	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u128	...but the truth is that the right has betrayed the teachers in 2019. [[PSD and CH protests.]] There is one question to be answered at the end of this debate. [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u129	The Minister of Finance said that negotiations with teachers could not result in more permanent expenditure. If this statement by the Minister of Finance is true, the negotiation that the Minister of Education is making is a fraud. And so what I ask you is whether the Minister of Education is in the forefront of a negotiation which is a fraud, because it is not based on the explicit, clear and true will to invest money in public school. The Minister of Education is right, the public school is a successful project.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u130	But it's not for his children!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u131	But this successful project largely depends on the resistance capacity of highly qualified teachers and teachers who are, today, tired and poorly paid. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] When Mr. Minister says « they have evolved one or two steps since 2018 or 2019 », it is not true; they are teachers who have evolved one or two steps from 15 years to here. They're tired teachers, they're poorly paid teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u132	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u133	These teachers need to be valued, so that the public school continues to be a successful project.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u134	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u135	And I therefore conclude, Mr President, with the appeal I made recently: Mr Minister, do what you have to do, go to the negotiations with the answers you know that teachers want, with the proposals you know that teachers feel are important for the valorisation of public school. Don't go to the negotiations with false parties so that you can withdraw and say that it's all right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u136	I renew the request already made earlier, by President Adam Silva, of maximum restraint in the times, because we have a long time ahead of us. In order to speak in the debate, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u137	at this moment, I am looking at Mr Filipe Melo! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u138	We have two minutes! It's just seeing the time of the Block! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u139	Mr. President, Minister for Education, Mrs. Members: In 2008 and now, in 2023, the two greatest manifestations of teachers have always occurred. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] This means that between 2008 and 2023 teachers were not heard by successive governments. The Socialist Government leaves this urgent debate and has to return teachers to the dignity of their careers, the full recovery of service time and the end of quotas on access to the fifth and seventh steps. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The problem is that the Minister of Education and the Socialist Party are the ideological exponents of a school idea comparable to that of the Soviet Union in the years preceding the implosion of the regime in 1991. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In the years of the end, there were passionate promises about the future of that heavenly republic, but within and outside the Soviet Union no one already believed in that. Today, inside and outside schools, no one already believes in the idea of school of the last half century. A public school with dismotivated and poorly paid operational teachers and technicians is not viable; a Ministry of Education populated with parasitic services whose extinction would save a lot of money;... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... very expensive and bad curricula; half of the teachers in physical and psychological suffering; indiscipline and violence that beats records; rude facilitation in the evaluation of students;... [[Look at the weather!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u140	... pathological bureaucracy; shortcomings of students justified in any way; highly degraded school buildings; unforgivable failures in support of students with special educational needs;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u141	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u142	...and contempt for the teaching of music.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u143	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u144	I will finish, Mr President, by saying that a socialist government that has been fueling this chaos for more than seven years has a deep contempt for teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u145	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u146	... by students and by public school. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u147	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u148	I'm done now, Mr. President. To the left, I meant that shame is beating the chest and having approved six budgets of the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u149	This concludes the urgent debate and fires us from the government. We move on to the next point on political declarations. The first political declaration belongs to the Liberal Initiative and to give it the floor Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Government of the Socialist Party is guilty of three political errors, one of which is the most serious. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] One : does not explain the past and the accumulation of cases, whose origins are always surrounded by nebulaes, is an illustration of this. Two: do not take care of the present, that the collapse of public services is the best example. Three: it does not prepare for the future, because it does not have any strategy for Portugal to adapt to the changes that are happening a little around the world. It was largely because of these three mistakes that, in good time, two weeks ago, on January 5, we presented our motion of censure, because we do not believe that the PS government could regenerate itself. That was two weeks ago, and someone said in times that « one week is an eternity in politics», but for PS it is not. Two weeks are just two more periods of time when they can demonstrate the degradation that fats in government and also the degradation of the political culture that PS has installed in Portugal. Otherwise, let's see. these two weeks came up the famous 36 questions that would avoid cases in the government. These 36 questions could well have been just three — which should always have been asked to any individuality invited to the government — which would have been these: do you have conflicts of interest? Was he a beneficiary of public funds? Do you have any problems with justice? I don't think it was very complicated to have done this and avoided some of those cases. in these 15 days there were further doubts as to the appointment of a friend of the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration, in the City Hall of Barreiro ; an adviser of the Prime Minister, former President of the Municipal Council of the Cartaxo ; the President of the City Council of Espinho was arrested for corruption ; the doubts about the lawful conduct of the current Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities while he was President of the Municipal Chamber of Funchal ; he discovered - and the Parliament was also not well in the photograph - that the former Secretary of State of Health had accumulated functions of Deputy with well-remunerated functions in a state-dependent business group ; and it is known - yesterday, that searches were made at the City Hall of Lisbon to find out suspicious contracts for party financing, made during the presidency of Fernando Medina to an ex-autarch of the state, five years ago, in a process that he has already begun. Finally, and very likely because IL was afraid to ask the Constitutional Court what was going on, we had the indication of the President of the Transparency Entity, three and a half years after the creation of this entity in the role, and we do not yet know whether there will be any means to monitor thousands and thousands of public office holders, who will be in charge of it. In view of this role of poorly clarified cases, involved in such a nebula, what we call the number one error is grounded, that the PS does not explain the past. Error number two: PS does not take care of the present, because while we call it "disgovernment of PS" it deals with the control of damage of cases that happen every day, the problems of the daily Portuguese accumulate. I will not even talk about the classics — health, education and social security — because, as far as these are concerned, neither does the PS have the can to say that things are going well, but I will add other examples to the already known. I am going to tell you about the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ), which has ceased to function and thus prevents citizens from regularizing their lives; the public notarial network, which also does not work and prevents citizens from updating documents or registering transactions; the judicial officers whose scandalous treatment leads to the disastrous state of justice itself; the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) — important public service belonging to the future government — whose report from the Public Prosecutor's ( MP ) point of contact says that the Committee on Audit and Control of the Programme shows that the General Inspection of Finance has validated the payment of the second instalment of the PRR without the fulfilment of some goals that were set. In view of this growing role of public services in collapse, what we call error number two is grounded, that the PS does not take care of the present either. All of this would be serious, but there is still mistake number three. While the PS de-government is in charge of controlling damage to cases that happen every day, the world around us is changing and nothing truly structural changes in Portugal. There is no strategy for the future of the country. For example, protectionism is back. In August, in the United States, an anti-inflation package was approved ; now in Europe, there is a European sovereign fund ; and what is the strategy of Portugal? Nobody knows. The geopolitical tensions are conditioning access to fundamental raw materials for the future, and what is the strategy of Portugal? Nobody knows. Demography and migration are central themes to solve the Gordius node of the country's growth, and what is the strategy of Portugal? Judging from what happened in yesterday's debate, the PS has no strategy. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Not to mention technological developments, such as artificial intelligence or nuclear fusion, whose impact will be seen in future decades. What is the strategy of Portugal? Nobody knows. No one knows what the strategy is, but we know that without one we will continue to fall into all the rankings that matter, as happened with the record fall of six places in the IMD competitiveness ranking (International Institute for Management Development ), which has recently been known. The IMD was very much quoted by the government when the result was good, but now we haven't heard a pio. Therefore, error number three is that PS does not prepare the future. In short: PS does not explain the past; PS does not take care of the present; and PS does not prepare the future. It is in this context, ladies and gentlemen. Members — since this is my last statement and last political statement as President of the Liberal Initiative —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u151	That says everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u152	... that, in this forum, expresses the following wish: whenever the past is to be explained, whenever the present is to be cared for and, above all, whenever the future is to prepare the first and strongest voice to give the warning continues to be that of the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u153	The Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification and I assume that the honourable Member will answer two or two.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u154	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u155	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor to ask for clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, first of all, would like to welcome you because, as I said, from the top of the rostrum, this is your last intervention as President of the Liberal Initiative. I would like to welcome you, democratically, for the performance that you have always had in the orders of the Liberal Initiative. We know that we have our political disadvantages, but we also have always had cordiality. So I wanted to say hello to you for that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would like to record that I said — and very well — that the Socialist Party does not take care of the present, as it has not taken care of the past nor taken care of our future, which is what we are most concerned about. We really have the chaos in health: we see the motherhoods closed and babies born or obstetric consultations carried out more than 200 km away from home, which is extremely worrying. In education is what we see every day. We had here recently the Minister of Education who spoke about the height of that rostrum, which seems to be all right. But no! It's not all right, in Portugal, with education, on the contrary. There is a great problem with education in Portugal, with thousands of students without classes and thousands of teachers without work. More: where do parents put those students? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] That is the big problem, because this school has an associated problem, behind it, much bigger. Then, we have a government and a Socialist Party that deceived our reformers, who, when they arrived in January, realized perfectly that they were deceived by the Socialist Party when, in October, he told them that he was going to give them half the pension. Now they realized: "We were deceived! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] And we have a government and a socialist bench of controversial and more controversial. Let us see what you are going to do — as the honourable Member has said, and very well — the searches in the City Hall of Lisbon and what will happen to Fernando Medina. The question I am asking you, Mr President, is about the motion of censure. It is true that the Liberal Initiative recently made a motion of censure, which came with us, but in July we had already made a motion of censure to this Government, because we clearly realize that this government is not serving our country, it is not for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u157	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u158	I ask you, honourable Member: why did the Liberal Initiative not then follow the finish line? Didn't you even realize that the government was the one we had in Portugal? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u159	You now have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to greet Mr Cotrim Figueiredo — who will continue with us, but not having the leadership role of his party — and thank him for his commitment and, above all, for his contribution to democracy in our country. Mr President, there is no second round of a motion of censure, but in fact here we must clearly vote on the government. in this case, there is no way to hide: the government is like public services, a real chaos!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u162	Isn't that arrived language?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u163	It is a government without authority, a government that hides the truth, as we heard yesterday, at the hearing of the CEO ( chief executive officer ) of the TAP. [[PSD applause.]] Speaking of TAP, Mr Member, when money is thrown over a problem almost always what disappears is not the problem, and this is truly one of these cases we have in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u164	Now we see the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u165	It's a government that has teachers on the street, closed schools, parents and students to despair, but it can't answer. It is a government that has the National Health Service (NSS) in an authentic blackout. More: in fact, we no longer have a government, we have a domino. Just watch them fall, one by one! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Member, I end up as I began: the government is like public services, a real chaos! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u166	To reply, available for 3 minutes, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u167	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Pinto and Mr Hugo Oliveira, the questions they raised and the words they kindly addressed to me, but what matters is the party, which continues, and not the people who lead it. In fact, Mr. Pedro Pinto, I could not have spent 6 minutes, because not even 16, 26 or 56 minutes would come to list the numerous problems we are experiencing in public services, many of which Mr. The most serious thing is that we have been talking about this for three years—since I am here in Parliament, of course—and what we see is a total denial by the PS of the nature, depth and difficulty of these problems. Worse: we see a total inability and inability to consider structural reforms. When the problems are at the bottom, sirs. Members of the PS, when the problems are structural, only with structural reforms is that they resolve themselves, even if your Secretary-General says that the words "structural reforms" catch him off. Still, it's the only way to solve it. [[Applause from the IL.]] And, yes, it was the succession of these kinds of problems that have no solution in view and that apparently the PS has no interest in resolving that led us to present the motion of censure here 15 days ago. We had in this motion of censure a different position from the position we had in July and the reason is simple: in July I was the government 3 months old, I had none of these cases on the table and, therefore, we could disagree with their policies, but I did not personally believe that an absolute majority could be wasted in nine months. It was 13 or 14 resignations in just nine months and a total inability of the government to regenerate. That is why we found that the right time was in the New Year and that is where we presented the motion of censure. We did not spend the cartridge too soon and I am sure that if the cartridge had been kept by the arrival, we would probably have had more motions of censure. On the other hand, I am now entitled to Mr Oliveira's question, not being a second round of the motion of censure, I would like to believe that if the debate on the motion of censure was perhaps today the PSD's position was not abstention, because it is obvious to those who want to see that, with the situation in which it is, Portugal does not stand this type of governance any longer. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr President, since you spoke in the case of TAP, I take advantage to say in the plenary, with all the letters, that no one can deny that it was the Liberal Initiative which, from the very first moment, was more vocally opposed, more unequivocally to the injection of 1 € that was in the TAP, because we already knew what was going to happen. Yeah, throwing money on the problem usually leads to the disappearance of the money and not the problem. But let me tell you more about a current topic. There was yesterday in this Parliament the President of the TAP Executive Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u168	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u169	I shall conclude with this serious tone, Mr President, because this matter is of the greatest seriousness. She was questioned 20 times— 20 times! — on the nature of the termination of the Eng.a Alexandra Reis contract and for 20 times refused to reply. I don't know what the government, which the Socialist Party is supporting, is waiting to draw the conclusions from there and draw from there also this executive direction of attack, which does not serve the interests of the company. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u170	You now have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS, available for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u171	Mr President, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, first of all, in his last speech, I would like to wish you, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the best personal and professional happiness from now on. Going directly to the subject, it is said, in favour of the truth, that, as a last intervention, it was quite out of expectations. It was a resounding speech of censorship that they made, the result of which we all know. But let me talk about something that seems very important to me and that somehow has to do with the path of the Liberal Initiative, which you have led. I believe that in recent years there has been in Portuguese society — taking into account the expectation created by the Liberal Initiative — the feeling that liberal policies are a sign of a kind of destruction of the values of society that were conquered in recent years in Portugal. In fact, if we start thinking about the context that we live in, which you mentioned somewhere in your speech, we realize that, in the current context, liberal ideas do not survive any of the problems we have. Just remember the problem we had with the pandemic, in which liberal ideas would not survive. If we didn't have a National Health Service, we would hardly have overcome the pandemic as we went through. The same with regard to public school: if we were to wait for liberal ideas we would not have overcome the difficulties as we have overcome. But there is more: we have a war. Today, we have inflation from the war and also the consequence of the pandemic, which, as you know, brought a number of problems. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] And the problems have not been solved by the market, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u172	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u173	I'm done now, Mr. President. The problems have not been solved by the market, as you defend it successively, and you are curiously asking the State to intervene because the market has failed. So I think the failure that the Liberal Initiative makes sense, which led to your resignation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u174	You must conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u175	... and that is leading to some contradiction in your party is precisely because you have not had the outcome you expected, you have not had the policies that should have and have not solved the problems that you said you were solving.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u176	Thank you very much, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u177	In fact, for you, we would make strategies every day to solve the problems of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u178	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP, who has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr... of the Liberal Initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u180	João!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u181	... João Cotrim Figueiredo. [[Laughing.]] The Liberal Initiative brings here a theme, beginning with its intervention on the promiscuity between political power and economic power, the lack of priority to the public interest, something that corroborates and undermines our democracy. But is that not exactly what the Liberal Initiative stands for? Do you not defend the primacy of the economic power over the political power and power of the decision-makers of the State? Is not the Liberal Initiative having difficulty showing how different it would be from the government? The Government and the PS refuse, for example, to control the price of food goods; they make the greatest transfer of work to the capital ever made; they deliver money from the State budget directly to the stock exchange of economic groups; they see Navigator, with EUR 10 million, plus EUR 18 million of the PRR, or we look at the dealers of motorways and bridges, with EUR 140 million; they refuse to raise wages; they refuse to increase minimum wages; they maintain all mechanisms that promote and stimulate precariousness; in terms of the absence of solutions to the lack of staff — nurses, doctors, operational assistants — the government is, in practice, delivering health, education and public services to business; they want to privatize the TAP; they do not interfere with the law of lease; and they keep housing in the market logic with the glorious results they know. Ladies and gentlemen, even the President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) said that he voted in favour of the State budget for 2023! This leads us to question the following: what does the Liberal Initiative want more of life? Oh, my God! Poor public investment? We have. Deregulation of working relationships? We have. Privatization of strategic companies? We have. Liberalisation of housing or energy markets? We have. Liberalization of prices, delivery of education and health to the private sector and the market? We have. Reduced tax burden for large companies and economic groups? We have, too! Subjection to the logic of deficit and public expenditure? Here it is, in sight! Therefore, anyone who has to complain is not the Liberal Initiative or the interests that the Liberal Initiative defends. Those who have to complain are workers and the people, they are students, teachers, SNS workers, justice, security forces, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, they are users of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u182	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u183	Yes, Mr. President. Will the Liberal Initiative not find it difficult to find policies that truly differentiate it from the Government and the Socialist Party, when a policy of plundering and sacrifice is imposed for the majority at the same time as protecting the interests and profits of a very small minority? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u184	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor, with 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. Mrs Alma Rivera, thank you very much for the question you have raised. It's not going to hurt, but I'm going to tell you that you gave a great example of why the PCP can't get out of the trash can in history. It is because, in the face of the facts, rather than looking at them and trying an interpretation that has to do with the facts, it makes up something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u186	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u187	Fact : who presented a motion of censure? The Liberal Initiative — can only agree with the Government! Who always opposed the injection of money into a company like TAP? The Liberal Initiative — you can only want it...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u188	That's right! Privatize.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u189	But it's not because TAP is public, it's because it was that injection that allowed shareholders like Mr. Neeleman to take 55 million euros home, because the state there put money, otherwise they wouldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u190	On the Navigator, on the dealerships!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u191	Who has always fought against any injection of any euro in the bank? Who was it? Oh, my God! The Liberal Initiative. Is that to defend the primacy of economic interests over political interests? You're very wrong, Mrs. Member, very, very wrong, and that's why the PCP can't get out of this trash can in history. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. Carlos Pereira, thank you very much for the words you have spoken to me, although I feel that you will regret the professional happiness you have wished for me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u192	Ah, we have a candidate for the presidency of the Republic! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u193	Then why, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God! Don't tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u194	I think so, I think so, unless there's a dose of masoquism in your desire, but I don't think there is. And don't confuse repetitively! Also there are days when I can't even hear myself,... [[Rice from IL.]] ...but the truth is that there is no chance that you will hear but repeat the same thing a thousand times! [[Applause from the IL.]] I am not going to compare the level of your question today with the level of other questions you have already asked me in the past, but I cannot let anything happen that touches me a little bit more — let us say so — which is the question of the destruction of values that liberalism represents in Portugal. [[The PSD Member Luís Gomes's laughs.]] Mr President, it has not been so for so many months that we have been here celebrating the bicentennial of the Constitution of 1822 and, almost unanimously, as well as the 'almost' we also know to whom we refer, we declare ourselves all heirs, tax due to this heritage of liberal values.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u195	This political philosophy is weird!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u196	They were too little liberal for what our understanding would be today. [[PS protests.]] They do not tell me that there is destruction of these values, unless the PS is looking at the mirror and saying that the PS who fought against dictatorships and who fought against the extremisms following the revolution has disappeared — this PS, who refuses to vote in the plenary against the condemnation of communist regimes, unlike the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in the European Parliament. [[Applause from the IL.]] And as for the mantra, which has been very repeated, that it was the state health and education systems that were worth Portugal during the pandemic, I recommend that you look at the reports on how each country in Europe reacted, either in terms of delays in learning, or in terms of response to health problems, and see what kind of policies the countries are at the top of this ranking. Liberal countries, with liberal policies, have reacted much better to the pandemic than we have. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u197	You must conclude, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u198	And if it is a matter of defending support during the pandemic, we think that the money the state is going to get people in times of fat cows should then return it in time of lean cows. And I can also return the charge that the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u199	Thank you very much, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u200	Mr President, this question is rhetorical and I will leave it to the Bureau: does the PS defend the limitation of people's movement and confinement at home? It is that if that is your value, they have also violated it during the pandemic. Or not? Oh, my God! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u201	It is now the time of the CFP to make its political declaration. To that end, Mr João Dias has the floor, which has 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems of access to health care are not conjuncural or episodic, are structural and chronic. Problems that get worse every day due to lack of answers, to some extent elementary but fundamental responses, of which the intentional devaluation of all health professionals is highlighted. Yes, sir. Members, the devaluation of health professionals is intentional to be part of the backbone of the strategy that economic groups have, with the convivence of successive governments, to make the health sector a business. For the PCP, the path is clear and inverse to the one that has been followed. That is, only with a real and considerable strengthening of investment in the National Health Service will it be possible to end the high number of users without a family doctor and the high waiting times for consultations, surgeries, treatments and examinations, as well as to end the outrage of the devalued health professionals and obsolete equipment and the degradation or inadequacy of the facilities. Mrs. Members, we can say with all security that by 2023 the health situation in Portugal is expected to worsen. This is to be assessed by the measures announced and implemented by the Government, which do not respond to the difficulties experienced by the SNS. Otherwise, let us see: in response to the enormous difficulties experienced in the emergency services of gynecology and obstetrics and in the blocks of births, which are temporarily closed throughout the country due to lack of human resources, the Government recently announced that it will undertake the reorganization of gynecology and obstetric emergencies. In fact, the solution you want to extend to other specialties—we fear that, practically, to all, since the deficiencies are generalized and not only one or another medical specialty. Equally, in addition to the problems that emergency specialist services face, one cannot fail to address the problems that exist in general emergency services, where, in general, users are faced with much higher waiting times than desired. In this respect, the Government shall apply the same model of urgency rotation as it applied in the gynecology and obstetrics emergencies. In other words, the general emergency services will have this model applied, leaving out that here too there is preparation for a reorganization of the general emergencies, which will certainly not lead to an increase in the responses, but rather to a reduction in the emergency services available. These are solutions that, in addition to not solving them, still allow problems to worsen further, since they do not solve what is in their origin, which is the huge shortage of health professionals, especially doctors. Therefore, the main solution is to ensure the hiring and placement of more health professionals. In fact, what the government has in progress is a real process of closing and concentrating services that does not serve the needs of the population in any way. The Government may even state that these are temporary measures, however, what is being realized is that, in fact, they have a clear objective of making definitive, which only benefits the interests of the private groups of the disease. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for these days, the Government has announced some support for the establishment of young internal doctors only in some areas lacking in the country: Bragança, Guarda, Covilhã, Castelo Branco, Portalegre, Santiago do Cacém and Beja, but it is also obviously very at the expense of the authorities. However, the government continues to « pass as a dog for vintage wine», alongside the basic issues, which are the wages and careers, as can be seen by the postponement of negotiations with the unions of doctors — flee to the necessary solutions! But it is also unclear why it leaves out areas strongly lacking, such as the regions of the Thamega, Sousa, Aveiro, Lisbon and Tejo Valley or also the Algarve. It is that the difficulties of fixing doctors are a cross-sectional problem throughout the country and the SNS, from north to south, from the coast to the interior. Another issue that matters to resolve concerns the application of the rules for defrosting nursing career, where there are inequalities and injustices that need to be resolved. This is the case of nurses who were promoted to the category of specialist by competition and to whom the points prior to the transition to the category were cancelled, while nurses who automatically transferred to the category of specialist, under Decree-Law No 80 - B / 2022, see cautioned—and well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — the relevance of previous performance assessments. Now it is also necessary to respond to virtual positions, particularly in what has to do with the need for them to be resulting from the rules for freezing the nursing career, which are preventing fair progress. And it is also necessary to respond to the problem that exists with regard to the accounting and retroactivity of the points frozen to 2018, not to 2022, as the Government is proceeding. Mrs. Members, with regard to public health, remain the conditions of great weakness of their structure, which is impoverished in their means, particularly humans. For years, the public health structure was allowed to be profoundly devalued, but the pandemic also proved its importance. However, the Government has olympically ignored the Committee on Public Health Reform and the report it submitted. The Minister has never met with the committee, which, of course, led to his resignation for lack of appreciation of his report and his proposals. We cannot accept that they remember public health only when we have a pandemic or an outbreak of legionella. It is urgent that public health problems be solved and it would be important for the government to start listening to public health professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u203	Four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u204	Mr. President, two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u205	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr John Dias, of the Portuguese Communist Party, it seems that you have now woken up from a deep coma! The voters tried to take the life support of the Communist Party, you saw greatly diminish your electoral base and now suddenly it seems that they have agreed on health problems, forgetting that they have approved six State budgets. That's true, sirs. Members of the Communist Party, I'm sorry I'm always knocking on the same key,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u207	You don't have keys anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u208	... but it is unacceptable that they will go to the rostrum to lament all that has been done in the health policies of this country in recent years and are trying to ignore that they have approved, along with the Socialist Party and the Left Block, the health policies that have been sinking the SNS. The ruin of the SNS is also the fault of the Portuguese Communist Party. And what do we have in the ruins of the SNS in Portugal? We have over 4 million Portuguese who have already moved to private because they had to meet their needs with a health insurance or a private health system, such as ADSE (Instituto de Proteção e Assistência na São Paulo). The largest motherhoods in the Lisbon and Tejo Valley are private, already one third of the births in Lisbon and Tejo Valley are made in private maternity because women who want to plan their maternity, safe and comfortable, make a health insurance when they think about getting pregnant. E, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, when we all want a specialist consultation — whether it is ophthalmology or orthopaedics, whether it is in dermatology, whatever the specialty — tell the truth frankly: who is not going to use private medicine to have a specialist consultation? How many are you? Ladies and gentlemen, are you waiting on the waiting lists for a specialist consultation? Put your arms in the air — zero, nobody! How many are you? Ladies and gentlemen on the waiting list for surgery in the public system? No one, zero, no one! We all resort to private medicine and the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party also do so, of course, and even there are photographs of this in the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u209	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u210	Yes, Mr. President. Mr João Dias, in conclusion, I would like to ask you one question: because it is that, repeatedly, the Members of this House. Members of the Socialist Party do not follow the proposals of the Arrival in the protection of the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u211	Ask the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u212	Why do they not follow the proposals of the Arrival in remodeling and valuing careers and have an ideological prejudice against our proposals, not looking at what is written there, but at the chance of the party arriving? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u213	Ask the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u214	The second request for clarification lies with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the BE Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Dias, register your political statement and list the various problems that health services currently face, but would like to follow in particular the denunciation of the government's unwillingness to value the National Health Service. Otherwise, let's see: some of the things that are being done are to dismantle health services and not to improve people's response. I ask the honourable Member what this idea of having to do more with less, which in practice does not solve the need for recruitment of specialists in the SNS and is cutting — like the example given by obstetrics — emergency services in various parts of the country. Instead of making a rotating scale of professionals, we have a rotating scale of closures, reducing people's access to these services. Does this indeterminate sense when it is said that what being is saving the National Health Service? No, what is being said to people is, "Get out of the way, because the government is not here to bring solutions, but to bring complications. Do not keep on seeking. ” And the same is true of professionals. The Government rejects all proposals for the valorisation of health professionals, rejects everything we have proposed, such as in the last State budget; ends the period of internship; then enters the phase for recruitment and it is the government itself that takes months to open these tenders. The government tells us: « There is no problem, because they are still there for hospitals. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, since you have already been a health professional, I ask you whether this is the case in hospitals. I ask you if what people are looking for is not stability in your life and if, when you tell them, "you've finished your time here, but you can stay a few more months and you can see when you open the contest," what you think is not if you have to find another place to work. Yes, of course! For the formation of their stability in life, to ensure family planning, to ensure the stability that all workers need and deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u216	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u217	Finally, Mr President, I would also like to ask the honourable Member whether this is not the choice of the State which, after that, the privates themselves benefit. In fact, sometimes it seems that those who make these decisions by the State are taking them for the benefit of the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u218	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u219	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Deputies Pedro Frazão, of the Arrival, and Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Block of the Left the issues they addressed to me. I would like to reply very clearly to Mr Pedro Frazão of the Arrival when he questions why the CFP does not follow the proposals of the Arrival. It is because, in fact, they are not in favour of defending the National Health Service. But I must also, in a way, return the question to you with another question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u220	I don't have time to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u221	I don't know if you are talking about the proposal that came here to eliminate this important solution for the lives of Portuguese people who have to have a public health service, the National Health Service, or if you are talking about, then, wanting to disguise this proposal—that they keep, because the goal is the same —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u222	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u223	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u224	... to end the National Health Service, still maintaining proposals that clearly aim to deliver health care in Portugal to the private. Clearly, Mr President, we do not follow this proposal. But allow me also to tell you, to dismantle the idea of health insurance, so that, once and for all, you can understand what is going on in health insurance. Here is an example: you defend health insurance, then you end up with the public response.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u225	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u226	It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u227	But I want to tell you this: health insurance in Portugal is not a deliberate option right now, they are imposed on people through other options, from credit to housing to mobile communications. These solutions are imposed and, therefore, what we think is that health insurance does not serve,... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] ... from then on by the underlying logic, because in the logic of health insurance is the profit and not the services that should benefit the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u228	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u229	And when things get complicated especially in childbirth, it's for the National Health Service that goes. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u230	That is why I tell you, Mr, that the best health insurance for Portuguese is the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u231	It's been a while, it's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u232	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, in fact, is quite right when he characterizes what has been the position of the economic groups of the disease. In fact, let me tell you that the economic groups of the disease have no interest in preventing the disease or promoting health, because this was to end the hen of the golden eggs, which is, in fact, assistance in the disease and hence obtain gross profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u234	But the truth is that there was a deliberate strategy, either of the economic groups or of the policies followed by PS, PSD, CDS and, now, their successors, who come, even more forcefully, to overcome the importance of this strategy of transferring health care to the private. In fact, today more than 40 % of the State budget goes directly to the pockets of private health groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u235	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u236	But this strategy has deliberately gone through devalued resources, particularly human resources, transferring them to the private sector and devaluing the public response.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u237	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u238	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, whenever a Portuguese resorts to a private service for not having a public response, that is where we should invest with more professionals, with more means, to respond to the needs of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u239	Mr Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u240	Mr President, Mr John Dias, I often wonder whether the Portuguese Communist Party believes in what it says.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u241	It's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u242	How can the Portuguese Communist Party say that the PS wants to destroy the National Health Service when it was the Socialist Party that created the National Health Service? [[P.S.'s applause.]] How can the Portuguese Communist Party say that we are on a path of not valuing professionals, of not valuing health services and of reducing access to it when, even in this government, we end up with moderate rates to ensure access to the National Health Service to all Portuguese? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u243	It wasn't in this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u244	If it wasn't our intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u245	It was the other one. So it's been a while longer! [[PCP protests.]] The other one was very short!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u246	And the PCP voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u247	Mr. João Dias said the Socialist Party wants to devalue professionals. Again recently, last year, the PS reached agreement with nurses to recover part of the career,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u248	Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u249	... and that was 70 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u250	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u251	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u252	We can say that the government could have gone further, but reached an agreement and did. currently, he is negotiating with the unions of doctors and with the unions of other professions. That is why this Government of the Socialist Party is in fact negotiating and trying to find the best solutions. Not to save the National Health Service, because it doesn't need to be saved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u253	Oh, that's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u254	... but for it to be valued, evaluated and continuously reformed, and this reformist momentum has always come from the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u255	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u256	Mr President, as I have no more time, I just wanted to tell the honourable Member that he is somewhat out of date, because he has come to say that public health has been devalued, that the working group has decided to resign, but he has not read the latest news, that the public health working group has been quite pleased with the meeting with the Secretary of State, realizing that the work they have done was the basis for the reform of public health that was being prepared. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u257	To make the last request for clarification to Mr. João Dias, Mr. Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Dias, the Communist Party once again understood to denounce in the Assembly of the Republic the state of degradation in which the National Health Service is located.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u259	Do you think that's wrong? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u260	And he's right in a lot of what he says.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u261	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u262	In fact, the closures and constraints in hospital emergencies, from north to south of the country, increase the number of Portuguese people without a family doctor to about 1 million and a half; worse wait times for consultations and surgeries, in months and even years; continue delays in the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases, especially oncological and cardiovascular diseases; and are increasingly health professionals asking for an excuse for responsibility and leaving the SNS because they do not have minimum working conditions and no longer believe in the reliable conversation of self-proclaimed parents of the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista and Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] All this is true, the problem is that the SNS is as it is and the Communist Party is not free of responsibility, because in the last seven years it has made up half of the State budgets presented by these socialist governments. The Communist Party is not a victim, it is, yes, an accomplice to the chaos and pre-colapse situation in which the state of the National Health Service is located. I say more: the Communist Party is sponsoring and responsible for the greatest increase in private health insurance in Portugal,... [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u263	Are you serious? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u264	... which has been registered in the last five years, since, for you, the time of the Prec ( Revolutionary Process in Course). So, Mr President, I am going to ask you a simple question: when does the CFP realize that, in order to be taken seriously, you have, before, to make my fault and apologize to the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u265	That expression is enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u266	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u267	Yes, you have to apologize to the Portuguese for supporting the governance of the Socialist Party, which is dismantling the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u268	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor, which is available for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u269	Mr President, Mrs Berta Nunes, Mr Rui Cristina, I thank you for the questions that have been put to us. Mrs Berta Nunes, the National Health Service is a conquest of the April Revolution, is a conquest of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u270	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u271	The PS, when it begins to say that it is the father or mother of the SNS, only reveals the difficulty that it has before the way the National Health Service maltreats. In fact, if he's a father, he's treating his son very badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u272	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u273	In fact, what I want to tell you is that there is, moreover, evidence of what has been the governance of successive PS governments, who have abused so much, but both the National Health Service. Look, Mrs Deputy, I remind you: Mr Correia de Campos, at the time, closed almost 20 maternity wards. Do you know what that meant to the population and to our pregnant women? It meant loss of access to the National Health Service, particularly the right to maternity. See if the PS has not been more stepmother and stepfather than, itself, father and mother of the National Health Service. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u274	And many more examples could give you, Mrs. As for our proposals, why we fight, the PCP believes so much that they are the answers because they are also the ones that health professionals put — health professionals who want to wear the National Health Service shirt, but that the PS refuses, because it sends them to the private or to immigration. [[PCP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] You know why? Because professionals who want to work in the National Health Service have been much, but much, devalued in terms of wages and careers. In the case of nurses, that Mrs Deputies spoke in particular, it was not clear that the PS refuses to pay what they owe, in particular the retroactives, of their points, to 2018 and not to 2022. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr. Rui Cristina always does a gymnastics, which is a huge sprawl,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u275	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u276	... between saying that he defends the National Health Service and making the speech of chaos. You decree the failure of the National Health Service... [[Protests by PS Deputy Rui Cristina.]] ... and this reveals your intention to transfer the public service to the private sector, but I want to tell you honestly that the private sector is more expensive, Mr. The private works on the part, the private prescribes more complementary examinations, more treatments, and the case of hemodialysis is an example of what happens, in which a health sector is all delivered in private. See how much the public is hostage, how much the National Health Service is hostage to a private sector that does what it very well desires in terms of treatment and in terms of what it wants. The honourable Member has left behind the question of ideological prejudice, as if he had only ideological prejudice against those who defend the National Health Service and as if those who defend the private did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u277	We're defending the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u278	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u279	Mr President, let me just say the following: you, as well as the other parties on your right, have in your ranks many of the leaders of the private sector and that is why they defend the private sector so much. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u280	That of the board of directors is there with the PS! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u281	Following political declarations, it is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Rui Moreira proposed this week, in the City Hall of Porto, a recommendation to the Government to make, and I quote, « all initiatives of urgency, in particular of a legislative nature, which allow the criminalization of drug trafficking and the criminalization of their consumption on the public road. Do not keep on seeking. ” The right-wing councilors voted in favour, but, as it were, they had the Socialist Party councilors' company. In the case of Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Mr Rosário Gambôa, the councillors are also Members in this Parliament and have decided to endorse this recommendation to the Government to change Portuguese law. Moreira's challenge to recriminalize drug use would be the response of the Chamber to the phenomenon installed in the Pinheiro Torres and the Pasteleira neighborhoods, following the dismantling, irresponsible, of the Bairro do Alexo district. Now, if there is anything that the demolition of that neighborhood has proved, it is not because it is to drive people out of the territory and threaten prison drug addicts who can fight social problems. Moreira's proposal, supported by the favourable vote of PSD and PS, in the Authority, is wrong at all. The assumptions contradict the accumulated knowledge over the past two decades; the proposal is omitted because it hides that the origin of the problem is, to a large extent, in municipal options, particularly related to Alexus and the dispersion of the phenomenon of trafficking and consumption; the proposal is superficial and misleading because it fictions that the problem of the neighborhoods of Pasteleira and Pinheiro Torres would magically resolve with the return to the law of the last century; the proposal is proven ineffective because, when Portugal criminalized it, consumption was more problematic and the problems of safety and public health were greater.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u283	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u284	When, in 2000, the article of the law that defined drug use as a crime, with imprisonment for up to three years, phenomena similar to what exists today in Porto happened then in many cities of the country. We did not decriminalize consumption even though there are such phenomena as Pinheiro Torres or Pasteleira, we decriminalized consumption, precisely, because there are such phenomena as the one we are facing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u285	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u286	The proposal by Rui Moreira, who has benefited from the subscription of PSD and PS, is still deeply misleading. Trafficking has never ceased to be a crime in Portugal ; it is also a crime with a penalty that can go up to 15 years and consists of the priorities for prevention and criminal investigation. In short, the proposal is a tactical maneuver for Rui Moreira to deresponsibility in view of his own incapacity, pretending that the problem is the law and not the lack of public policies, particularly municipal policies. For decades, Portugal treated the drug problem as a matter of police and prison and the results were a fiasco. While he was expelled and arrested on one side, locating prisons with drug addicts, the problem arose elsewhere, moving consumption to other areas of the city or to prisons. The paradigm shift occurred in 2000, a milestone of which we should all be proud. The great transformation that we made over 20 years ago, then governed Antonio Guterres and the Bloc had just entered Parliament, was precisely the decriminalization of consumption, also that of the street. This has become treated as a public health problem, leaving the police with the phenomenon of trafficking. The Portuguese model is a global example, praised to date and taken as a reference, because the results were impressive. The population affected by the phenomenon has decreased to less than one third; in the same proportion problem consumptions have decreased; the peak HIV infection (humanimmunodeficiency virus), by tuberculosis or by drug-related hepatitis; the number of overdose deaths is seven times lower than it was; crime and feelings of insecurity were also drastically reduced. The problems were not all solved, but one thing is certain: those who defended a model of criminalization of consumption were defeated by reality. For all this, we pride ourselves on that heritage and that option. It is a heritage of the Left Block, which then struck by this transformation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u287	Is he from the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u288	... but it is also a heritage of the Socialist Party and the Communist Party, which have approved the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u289	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u290	Protecting school spaces, removing street consumption and reducing the risks associated with them is not displayed by the authority of the criminal state to consumers or with inconsistent atoards, assuming that drug addicts should all go to prison. Guaranteeing security and tranquility is a task parallel to combating trafficking and is being carried out with the presence in the territories and with the strengthening of intervention in public health. The assisted consumption rooms were part of the initial law, but they took years of resistance and prejudice until they were finally placed on the ground. In Lisbon, it was necessary to wait decades until the decisive intervention of the Block took out the role of the first assisted consumption rooms. The consumption room that exists in Porto, only three months ago, has already accompanied more than 600 users. It should be valued, enlarged and multiplied, should have enhanced multidisciplinary intervention instead of being run by an idea of criminalization of consumption that would introduce, between the intervention team and consumers, the phantom of referral by the police. That Rui Moreira wants to carry out a political campaign against Portuguese law, as if it were the problem and as if again criminalizing street consumption was the solution, until it can be seen: it is part of the way the populist right addresses this phenomenon and its own inability to give it a consistent answer. That the Socialist Party, in the Port House, together with its signature to this recommendation of the populist right is, from our point of view, shocking and a tremendous step back. Moreover, the question remains: if, perhaps, the right to present this proposal to Parliament, which the Socialist Party has signed, how will the PS vote? [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Will the PS have, perhaps, changed its position on drug policy, or was it only in the Port Chamber that changed? For our part, we have no hesitation: much needs to be done, but no solution will have to go back more than 20 years in this policy. The Block is proud of Portuguese law and it would be a fundamental mistake to destroy or undermine one of its fundamental legal pillars, the decriminalization of consumption, which the Socialist Party, with Rui Moreira and the PSD, now propose to change by means of this resolution of the chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u291	Don't say nonsense, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u292	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u293	I conclude, Mr. President. The recommendation that has now been made is a nonsense and the vote of the Socialist Party, making a chorus with Rui Moreira, in this gesture of adversarial of our law, is a face-to-face to this conquest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u294	It's not worth everything, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u295	It is a face-to-face who has been beaten by the end of the criminalization of consumption and all those who, over the years, have engaged in this model. But the PS vote is also a face to its own party heritage that, with others such as the Block, was agent of this transformation, from António Guterres to Jorge Sampaio. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u296	Mr President, the Bureau has registered four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. I assume two to two answers are answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u297	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u298	All right. The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, who has 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u299	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u300	Sir, is there a regret?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u301	Yes, Mr. President. I'll answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u302	All right. It's registered. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal by Rui Moreira to criminalize drug use on the public road is an unacceptable conservatism. Therefore, not only could we not agree with the political declaration of the Left Block, as we believe that it is based on an antiquated, discriminatory vision that does not value the human person and does not recognize that, in fact, 23 years ago, with a disruptive humanism and the names that have been mentioned here too, we have decriminalized the consumption of illicit drugs, treating people with additive consumption not as criminals, but as a sick person, who proposes and who should be treated. The NAP will always be next to this humanism, which wants to strengthen the care, treatment and inclusion of people with addiction. The IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) have a key role here in this treatment, but the State has not updated the money transferred to the IPSS for 14 years. The NAP will propose the extraordinary update of these values, so I ask whether the Left Block will accompany us in this measure, also recognizing the importance not only of mobile health care units, including assisted consumption, but also fixed ones, which have had a lot of controversy and difficulty in implementing throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u304	For a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, from the PCP, now has the floor for up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u305	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, I would like to thank you for bringing this issue, which is very important for the CFP. We do not deal with this, asking who is the father or mother of this policy, which was quite progressive, but what we both know and we know about the effects on people's lives, particularly people living with the problem of drugs and addiction, the decriminalization of the use of illicit drugs. In 2002 Portugal, in fact, filled us with pride with a very progressive and humanist policy, which focused on respect for human rights in access to health and social rights, particularly in social reintegration. These gains were achieved, but in 2011, and from 2012 onwards, there were the effects of a new model, which came to bring an amendment, notably with the end of the unique structure that existed, the RTD (Instituto da Drugs et da Toxicodependência ), creating difficulties, fractionating all the response, losing the coherence that the response had and degrading that same response, in relation to addiction and drugs. in this sense, what I want to evaluate and analyze here is that, in fact, we understand that there is this concern that the Block brought here. For us, the criminalization of consumption on the public road is a backwardness, it is, in fact, a punitive and repressive approach, which we do not, at all, defend. But I want to tell you this: in recent years, the answers have been very difficult. One of them has to do with the inability to respond, due to the lack of human resources and the need of new professionals to work in this area. It is, in fact, very poor and very needy and we need answers. Another situation that has to do with people who use psychoactive substances is that this use is very linked to two questions: on the one hand, mental health, on the other hand, to living conditions and poverty. in this sense, Mr President, the question I leave you with is whether the way is not to help these people, rather than to punish and arrest them, saying « far from the sight, far from the heart». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u306	To reply, having no more than 3 minutes, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u307	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mr João Dias, we agree. We all agree on this. We certainly need to rebuild the intervention capacity of SICAD (Intervention Service in Additive Behaviors and Dependencies ) ; more human resources ; a greater commitment or more resources to develop prevention; risk reduction and harm minimisation policies; expansion of consumer rooms—which eventually took so long to see the light of the day, as we know, here in Lisbon and in Porto, very recently only, and we have been insisting on this public policy, which was already foreseen by law since 2000; strengthening funds for municipalities; strengthening public health, in its various dimensions, also in the area of mental health; and combating trafficking, of course. Now, what we know is that the success of the Portuguese approach to the drug phenomenon has a legal pillar,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u309	... and the legal pillar of this success and this paradigm shift was the decriminalization of consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u310	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u311	What has been discussed in the City Hall of Porto and in a recommendation which has now been sent to the Government is, and I quote: 'to address the Government of the Portuguese Republic the appeal to take all initiatives, with an urgent nature, in particular of a legislative nature, to allow the criminalization of drug trafficking [... ]' — which, I remember, is already a crime with penalties up to 15 years — '[...] and the criminalization of its consumption on the public road'. How the Socialist Party voted to do this is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u312	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u313	Is that a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u314	How is it possible for a party which has also been at the origin of the law that described consumption to have two Members in this House of the Republic to recommend that the Government change the law as a council member. For what? I read: « for the criminalization of their consumption on the public road». The paradigm shift that we have made has allowed the police to combat trafficking and concentrate the consumer's relationship with the health system, social intervention and risk minimisation policies. That is what we have changed and that is what we need to develop. Only the populist right, against all scientific evidence and against everything we learn in public health, is that it would be able to resurrect the criminalization of consumption, which, we all know, was a fiasco, and it was precisely in the rejection of this policy and this orientation that we built the basis of the so-called "Portuguese model of approach to drug addiction". Therefore, Mr João Dias and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we are on the same side, rejecting criminalization, proud of Portuguese law and demanding the reinforcement of the means to develop this intervention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u315	The third request for clarification to Mr. José Soeiro belongs to Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u316	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, thank you very much for the political statement, which ultimately leads us to discuss the question of drug policy in Portugal. On this point, I would like to make it very clear that the position of the Social Democratic Party, which endorses a vision that goes precisely in the sense of the bet that Portugal has made on the decriminalization of drug use in our country. The banist route has failed in all its history, and therefore we are dissociating ourselves from this logic of the Member who wants to bring a local issue to a national issue. Now, I want to tell you something, sir. There is a fundamental issue here, which we cannot ignore, which is the serious problem that is being lived in Porto. Promises were made, even by the management, of which the Left Block was part, and by the Socialist Party, who so criticized the Social Democratic Party when the SICAD was created, the Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies. I remember the Socialist Party saying, at the time, when the SICAD was created, that the first thing I was going to do was reverse the SICAD, to have the IDT back. Seven years have passed, nothing has happened. SICAD depends on regional health administrations to intervene on the ground. An executive direction was created, the ARS (Regional Health Administrations) continue to exist, but this is a complete balbodia, no one knows who commands, no one knows who does what and at the moment we have no answers on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u317	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u318	We are seeing a real increase in mental health problems, in which one in five adolescents in our country today has a mental health disorder, and we see a failure to respond to the National Health Service in these matters. When we talk about dependencies, Mr President, what was the only initiative of these seven socialist years? It was the creation of another scrapper, the scrapper of the heritage, to raise more money to the poorest and most vulnerable, knowing that this was precisely a policy that would attack those who could and who have more mental health problems. So I ask you, Mr President, what did the Left Block demand, while it was in management, on drug policy... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u319	... and, in relation to mental health policies, and in particular policies to combat drug trafficking in our country and to support those who unfortunately have the problematic consumption of drugs, which is the evaluation of the Left Block and agree that the Socialist Party has failed in these seven years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u320	The fourth and final request for clarification belongs to Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u321	Mr President, Mr Soeiro, first of all, I congratulate you on bringing up an issue that is too important and too obvious here for this seat, for the Assembly of the Republic. This is where we should discuss and hold this debate. I will not speak to you in repressing the issue of drug use. That, Mr President, I would like to remind you that, as I said, and very well, you have been back there for more than 20 years. Mr. Deputies, the Socialist Party was the father and mother of decriminalization of drug use. We have no illusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u322	You already have more children than mothers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u323	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to be able to continue. Indeed, this decriminalization of consumption had results that put Portugal as an international reference and an example below. We are all reminded of the fears that have been raised, and all of us, convincingly, have maintained our strategy of continuing, which has been followed with many good results. Some problems, Mr President, continue to persist and need to be resolved, with a multidisciplinary approach, within the framework of public health, social integration and also safety. But the legal framework that exists can solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u324	Full of agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u325	So we know each other well, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the social drama caused by drug trafficking, but that is another problem. That's a crime and it continues to be. Whenever there are situations of alleged traffic, it is up to the courts to evaluate, and that is how it will continue. Also, Mr President, we continue to defend with conviction, and are not the doubts of Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u326	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u327	I will now finish, Mr President. I repeat: it is not the honourable Member's doubts that they will extrapolate a position which has been well justified by a statement of vote, which he certainly knows, for a position that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Party, with all this heritage, wants to withdraw.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u328	Looks like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u329	We defend a society to move forward, not to retreat.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u331	Don't count on us. We'd like them to come with us, as they've been with us for 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u332	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u333	Mr President, Mrs Antonio Almeida Santos, I welcome the statement that the Socialist Party will not change the law, because there were two Members of the Socialist Party who made a recommendation — which was voted in favour — for the law to move to, and I quote, “the criminalization of drug use in the public way”. I would therefore like to welcome this position, because this consensus is very important. This recommendation is nonsense...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u334	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u335	... and I regret, in fact, that the Members who are governors, but they are also Members, recommend the amendment of Portuguese legislation. The problem, Mrs Deputy, is that this is not just a local problem, this is a recommendation on the law of the country, and whenever, from a local point of view, there are Members of the Socialist Party riding the discourse of right-wing populists, who win are the right-wing populists, because they are open to these policies and positions. Therefore, the discourse of the populism on the right, as soon as you have this approach, has to be fought and not rode. We cannot make a chorus with Rui Moreira and her populism, because it gives us a way in the port, when we have to do shielding and maintain the paradigm of decriminalization and, of course, Mrs. Members, bet on strengthening multidisciplinary mechanisms to combat drug addiction and approach this phenomenon. The consumption room assisted in the Port already accompanies 600 users. Did we need more? Of course! Did we need more investment? Of course! But this investment has to be made from this paradigm and we are here to fight for this investment and here we are to fight against the position of these two Members of the Socialist Party and against the position of the Socialist Party in the Port. Here we are to defend that decriminalization of drugs is a fundamental pillar of our law, of our model of intervention, which must be preserved. We are here to beat ourselves by our principles and they do not stand in parentheses in the face of the pressure of populists. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u336	The political declaration of the Socialist Party follows, and Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The mission of public school is to make everyone learn more and better. Here, every word counts: everyone, learn, more, better. But none of this can continue to happen without the professionals of education, and in particular none of this will be possible without the teachers. in these seven years of governance, we invest in professionals: instead of disbursing tens of thousands, we recruit and give more resources to schools; instead of precaution, we bond; instead of forcing them to pay for training, we promote more training and more geared towards real needs; instead of requiring them retrograde curricular reforms and without dialogue, we give them more autonomy and flexibility to fully exercise their 'professional' teaching. We have cut off the career and, if we cannot change the past, we have changed the future: we have put in place the mechanism of progress and it has very visible effects. However, it is not all done, we must move forward. Since September last year the Minister of Education has been in negotiating contact with the unions. For months now there has been a negotiation process on a central priority: to review the teaching recruitment regime, to end the house behind the teachers. This week, the government has put a very comprehensive package of proposals on the table to improve the teaching condition and public school. We would highlight two central objectives of these proposals: to combat instability, to combat precariousness. The proposals now presented continue and consolidate the fight against precariousness that we started in the previous legislatures. We improved the norm-work and thus we were able to link 14,400 teachers. And what is now being proposed is a revolution in the fight against precariousness, a sort of gold standard-work: to complete the three years and bind, count the days of service, in full-time equivalent, count each day of service, and not only the annual and complete hours successive. Thus, a dynamic binding mechanism is created, a permanent anti-precarity mechanism, which is a giant leap of the teaching condition. And we also introduced wage progression for the contractors. It should be remembered that these proposals have not fallen from heaven now. The Minister had already presented his general drawing here in Parliament to the Committee on Education and Science. Another central dimension of the proposals aims to combat instability in teachers' lives, which is bad for professionals and is bad for educational projects. Start with the principle: to define the permanent needs in each school or grouping,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u338	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u339	... on this basis, define the tables and, consequently, link the teachers to the school; stop abusing the zone frames, reserve them for non-permanent substitutions and needs, and give stability to the teachers, setting them to a school or grouping and, when they are satisfied at the school where they are in the frame, do not force them to run the risk of going elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u340	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u341	at the same time, it greatly reduces the geographical area of the zone tables from current 10 to 63 QZP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to explain here the whole range of proposals, which are still combined with management measures to make the best possible use of the teachers we have to deal with the needs. But it has to be said that, realistically, knowing that it is not possible for a career to have what no public career has,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u342	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u343	... these proposals open the way to resolving other questions raised by teachers and trade unions, in particular the correction of surpluses motivated by different routes of linkage, the modulation of the conditions of progression associated with the 5. a is 7. the steps, the fight against bureaucracy when it has no pedagogical utility. at the same time, against the tide of misinformation, it should be noted that the proposals submitted respect the principle that placements are made by professional graduation, in the same way that do not transfer to municipalities any competence relating to teachers. We believe that teachers want to preserve the school as a learning space, that teachers never lose sight of their students. We believe that teachers want compatible solutions for their career and public school and believe that this can be achieved by those who effectively want relevant agreements in substantive matters. It would be a lack of respect for teachers to tell them that everything is all right and nothing needs to be changed, just as it would be lack of respect for teachers to tell them that we left the zero, because what we did was done with the professionals of education, it was done with the teachers, with their 'professionality', with their knowledge and with their dedication. So we leave an appeal: we all give a chance to public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u344	Mr President, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u345	For what?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u346	The honourable Member — and well — did not waste his time and therefore not all parliamentary groups had time to register the requests for clarification that they intended to make during their intervention. I therefore repeat, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u347	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u348	All right, Mr, you have three minutes to do so. The first request for clarification belongs to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free, and it takes him one minute to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u349	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I shall begin by the end with your last sentence: « Let us give everyone an opportunity to the public school ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u350	What's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u351	This is, in fact, a challenge for the future that we have to overcome. Let us think, at this moment, of a young person who has a vocation to teach what is happening. Would you like to dedicate yourself to the teaching career? I would say no, because you see a class that repeatedly says you don't feel respect, and that has to come somewhere. In your understanding, what can be done to, in a certain way, open this dialogue? Could it be through, as we propose, a general state of education, with teachers, teachers in charge of education, autoarchs, civil society, so that we can value the vocations of the future, in the way that it is more direct and immediate, that it is deignifying the careers of the present?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u352	Thank you, sir, for your discipline. The second request for clarification belongs to Mr António Cunha of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Porfirio Silva for his political statement to us on a sector of governance which is very expensive to us all, but which is in fact in convulsion. from our point of view, this seizure was caused by a governance that has been pushing with the very serious belly problems, such as the lack of teachers, because of their aging, and because nothing has been done to counter the lack of attraction of the teaching career, which little tells the younger ones and in fact goes on to wear out the older ones more and more. Mr President, the first question I have to ask you is the following: there are negotiations, but what is the young person who will invest time and money in a higher education course that will offer you, at the beginning of his career, €1100 monthly liquids, to travel and to pay for home, when there are other professional exits much more attractive, inside and out? Therefore, I think it is time for the Socialist Party and the Government itself to assume that they are in fact impoverishing the country and that they cannot pay higher orders to the careers of the Public Administration. Mr President, there is another issue that I have not yet seen on the negotiating table. The Socialist Party, in 2019, and also in 2022, promised to create incentives to bet on the teaching career in areas of the country where the offer of professionals is scarce. So we have had thousands of students without classes at least one discipline and, in seven years, I wonder where are those incentives and what they've been doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u354	We took off our careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u355	Yeah, they've frozen their careers, but in fact, you don't appreciate, you don't like and you're hostileing teachers from Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u356	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u357	Therefore, Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues was part of a government of José Socrates, of which you are ashamed to speak here in this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u358	They're not ashamed of anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u359	And another question: they are hostile and enough to mention that, in the face of the strikes we are experiencing now, you, the Minister of Education, have made completely incendiary statements,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u360	You have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u361	... seeking to shoot teachers in charge of education, and this, for the PSD, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u362	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. This is the fourth time I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u363	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u364	So, please conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u365	I now conclude with only one question on the QZPs. Suddenly, 63 QZP — and well — appeared, so there is no hunger that does not fill. So I ask: why hasn't this appeared any longer? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u366	What is "this"?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u367	The third request for clarification belongs to Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP, who has no more than 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u368	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I have listened carefully and allowed myself to ask you a few questions. I would like to ask myself, of course, whether the Socialist Party which is present here to ignite the measures of the Government is exactly the one that discussed the State budget a month and a half ago, and in particular the set of proposals put forward by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u370	Mr Porfírio Silva stated: « instead of precaution, we are bound». So, you might ask why we haven't linked any longer? We see : of the 12 proposals in the area of education that the CFP presented at the headquarters of State Budget, at least four had to do with the conditions of teachers. The first concerned the external invitation to tender for extraordinary teaching links. And what was the meaning of the PS vote? Against. Then, on the accounting of the full-time working time teacher, what was the meaning of the PS vote? Against. It would be appropriate to ask whether I would vote in favour today. Another proposal was on measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and technicians specialized in public school. What was the meaning of PS's vote? Against. How would you vote today? And about the full accounting of all the time of service in careers and special bodies? The PS voted against. It is true that there are measures that are being presented that are positive, but they are clearly insufficient. The Minister of Education announced yesterday the association of 10 500 teachers with the allocation of EUR 100 million. We asked: why didn't you do this before?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u371	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u372	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u373	I shall conclude, Mr President. Well, it probably has to do with the answer that it was inevitable to give the strength and struggle of the teachers on the street and that the Minister yesterday acknowledged, in particular, the strike of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) in the districts. So why didn't you do it longer? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u374	The fourth request for clarification belongs to Mrs Joana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u375	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to thank you for this opportunity to go into detail with some of the negotiating proposals. A negotiation implies that both sides put proposals on the table, being willing to yield part of them, but based on the principle that they are an advance. That is what gives the negotiating character to a trade union negotiation. In fact, the government has put on the table, not proposals that mean progress in the context of negotiation, but proposals that were inevitable, i.e. proposals that would have to make, whether there was negotiation or there was no negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u376	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u377	The case of binding is exemplary. The Government, upon reaching a negotiation allowing the country that is in a position to link 10,500 teachers one day to the other, admits that until today, during the last few years, it has lived very well and without any problem with 10,500 school precariouss, knowing that they were precarious. And if he binds them today, it's not because he's changed his mind about precariousness in school, it's because the lack of teachers in school makes him afraid that these 10 500 also go to places, careers or jobs where they earn more money. It was therefore inevitable to link these teachers, if the public school could have short-term teachers, and no longer say in the medium term. Introducing steps for contracts is an obligation of the European directive which the Government has been failing for months; it is an obligation of the European directive and the government was about to receive a fine, a condemnation, for not fulfilling it. The government did not propose steps to the contractors because it feels sorry for the wages of the contractors; it proposed because it was obliged by the European directive. So when you say that teachers can't want what no career has — because the PS always has this temptation to say that teachers are asking too much — I ask you about support for travel. All public service careers have, teachers don't. And vacancies for 5 o'clock. a is 7. The stairs? Teachers have and no other career has. So I ask: after all, what is the career that is damaged? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u378	To respond to all requests for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has a maximum of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Rui Tavares, Antonio Cunha, Alfredo Maia and Joana Mortágua, thank you very much for the questions. I would like to begin with Mr Cunha and respond very quickly to his essential question about why we have not done so much longer. I'll tell you why we haven't done it in a while. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] Mrs. Member, do you want to hear or are you making up? So I'll tell you. You know why we haven't done it in a while? We haven't done much longer to reform the binding regime, because we were doing the studies, drawing up the proposals, beginning to contact the unions when you, more left parliament, interrupted the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have not done so much longer, because your President, the President of your party, said that there were more teachers and that in the framework of the reform of the Public Administration it was necessary to correct this. [[PSD protests.]] So we didn't do it any longer, because we were doing it and because the government didn't... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u380	Please let Mr Porfirio Silva give all the explanations, because he only has three minutes. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's just that the PSD, when you see a reform, runs away. The PSD talks about reforms, but when a reform runs away,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and that's what you're doing again. We are negotiating, we will continue to negotiate and we will not replace ourselves - the government or the unions, because it is the government and the unions that have to negotiate, and what we want is that we both negotiate in good faith and achieve results. Of course, if we think like Mrs. Joana Mortagua, who says that all the proposals are inevitable, it is not worth talking about. The honourable Member, perhaps, has not had time to read the proposals yet, but read, because teachers and trade unions know that what is there is new, is substantial and very important to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u382	That's why they're on the street beating palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u383	Yeah, yeah! It's so young they're all on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u384	Today’s strategy has expanded to other benches, which is to cry out not to hear the answers. [[BE's protests.]] Mr Alfredo Maia — I will leave the answer to Mr Rui Tavares for the end — the honourable Member had a gesture that distinguished him in this debate, which was to say that there are positive proposals, but they are insufficient. That's a good principle. I must tell you that if any government started a trade union negotiation to think that all partners were going to say that it was coming, that government was crazy, for sure. We hope — I do not know what the government is trying to do, because, obviously, who negotiates is the government, we are not — that the government knows that it put a proposal on the table, which certainly has to be worked. He certainly did not invent the last Coca-Cola in the desert with that proposal and will be willing to improve it. But this recognition is important and I want to give you a very concrete answer to the question of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u385	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u386	I shall conclude, Mr President. We can't do piece reforms. The habit of trying to solve all the country's problems in the State Budget, with one piece here, another one there, does not work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u387	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u388	Things have to be logical, they have to keep going, they have to be systemic, and that's why we're doing this. Mr Rui Tavares, I believe that what we really need right now is that negotiations are fruitful and results. For example, we can leave the General States of this and that for another time—in fact, the Socialist Party itself has in its electoral programme, for which it was elected, the proposal of a social pact for education, and we will do so—because now it is necessary to negotiate, it is necessary to reach agreement, it is necessary to give the public school an opportunity, and that is what we are committed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u389	We shall now proceed to the political declaration of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr. Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u390	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What does this government have to offer Portugal, in addition to the ballroom in which it lives? The Prime Minister, on his knees, already on his knees, afflicted, at the end of a debate here in this plenary, in an attempt to escape, invented a mechanism — indeed, the mechanism — of prior check-in for government members, a checklist, an inquiry, what role to play in any division or dental consulting. But in the best handkerchief the knot falls. Faced with the demand of the PSD leader and then the President himself of the Republic, the Prime Minister retreats, he does not want to apply the investigation to all members of the Government, distinguishing those who are in charge of those who are to come — the many, probably, given the intense turnover that this government team has. This questionnaire is failing. What are you afraid of? Don't you have a calm awareness of the choices you've made? You don't trust your government members? First, he tried to involve the President of the Republic, exactly when he announced the mechanism, and did so opportunistically, without notice or advice. He took it back. The President of the Republic was not in this novelistic role that the Prime Minister had assigned to him and then Antonio Costa withdrew. In fact, it looks like that Risk game we were playing — at least me — when we were younger. So, he invented a new introduction, a new pretext, an interaction, which is: the questionnaire. And now, why not submit the questionnaire to current rulers? The truth is that, with questionnaires or without questionnaires, with facts or without facts, the Prime Minister is not responsible for the beginning of everything, which is most basic, that is to constitute a team, to present a government and to propose its members. It is not so responsible solely for the most basic principle of the constitution of the government, nor for the choices it makes. In any civilized country of a mature democracy it would not be like that. But Antonio Costa is not like that either. I believe that it has never been — for which I will observe — and prefers to flee, prefers to take refuge in excuses, pretexts, scapegoats, in all and everyone, less in themselves and in their actions or omissions. This Prime Minister is even deprived of being an ideal team. He can't, he always needs a mule or an excuse. It's all an ink, actually, it's a lot of ink. In fact, the government lives in a permanent state of ink, so it is an inkling government, without time or mindset to rule the country. Perhaps it is not all bad, because perhaps it reduces the possibility or probability of asinining, or of asining too much, or of asining continuously, as happened in the other absolute majority government of the Socialist Party, then led by Technical Engineer José Socrates. As they do not govern and make decisions, because they are stuck in their ballroom, they will be less expensive to the country, but when they decide, it is always to pay high bills and without any strategy or vision of the future that, at least, will ensure that we no longer have these financial imbalances and that, on the contrary, we would enter a decade of economic and social development. Seven years have already been there; four are missing! And, look, one example of what I just said is the chaotic state of the company—it is no longer the flag company, it is the flag company, the flag that the Portuguese pay, or the flag that the company and the government give to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u391	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u392	We see the disqualified Minister who, seven years later, leaves a lot of reliable conversations in the TAP, in the railway, on the roads, finally nothing but damage to billions of euros thrown to the streets. Pay Zé. Cool, man! That's how you talked at the time. All of this, for seven years, with the « get used to ». All this is a joy taken! Mr Prime Minister does not respect and does not respect Portuguese. Play with everyone, play with them and play at the cost of the lives of millions of Portuguese and the future of our youth and our country. It's a play in the sand! This government is broken, it's breaking up every day! The Government, the members of the Government, permanently, of clarifications on their own probity, on their ethical qualifications, on their legal qualifications. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] In fact, they are absolutely incorrigible. Some are going the way, but it's always someone else's fault. The guilt dies single and the practice of impunity, lack of ethics, irresponsibility, use and abuse of the public, use and diversion of resources continues, and is to last.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u393	Mr. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u394	I will finish, Mr. President. We are all paying for the bill, all the Portuguese people and more of those who will come. Yes, because the near future is also compromised, for worse, and there is always a galloping debt trail. We need a developed and exemplary country, in which everyone has the opportunity to have access to a better life, without having to go and ask or wait for the state's alms. But right now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution is in question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u395	The Bureau recorded six entries for requests for clarification, the ladies and gentlemen. Deputies André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, Rui Tavares, of the Livre, Rui Afonso, of the Chega, Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, Paula Santos, of the PCP, and Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u396	Mr President, if possible, I would join groups of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u397	So it will be, in groups of two. in this case, the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the PS André Pinotes Batista has the floor to make the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u398	Mr President, allow me, in your own words, to welcome all colleagues. Mr Miguel Santos, from the PSD, is not very proud of the number of requests for clarification because he is probably stuck with perplexity in the face of such an empty political declaration, a political proclamation that leaves us all, indeed, full of doubts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me tell you that your rhetorical trickling, always turning to 1. the person of the singular, does not leave us alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u399	But we're resting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u400	But what I want to say to you is, above all, that this measurement mechanism is a mechanism that enables the government members to choose more information about the context of each person in order to strengthen our democratic institutions. Let me also tell you that this thesis of de-responsibility, of course, in the Portuguese Constitution, which makes it very clear who are the powers to appoint and the powers to invite. And, Mr President, it is because of these untied narratives of reality that it must be stressed that, in this House, a constitutional review process is open, in which — no doubt! — neither the party of V. Ex.a nor any of the other parties submitted any initiative to adopt another methodology consistent with our Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u401	Not a PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u402	But you guys still don't stop. We think tightening the claw is valuable. However, we would also like to point out that it might be interesting that the leader of the party of V.E.A., Dr. Luís Montenegro — who considered this instrument an "inconsequent" — could start by making a self-assessment himself, to see if, by completing this investigation or any other finding, he will meet the conditions to propose to be Prime Minister of this country. We believe that the Portuguese will not give him that responsibility, but by the way, it would not hurt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, let me tell you this, Mr President: everyone who burns the way to the seat of power will have no way or power. This is a reflection that the PSD should do, because this thing of bringing matters of defense of the regime to the party dispute of the foam of the days does not help anyone, and you may believe that not even you, however happy it is, will help. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u403	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u404	Mr President, I take this opportunity to ask for clarification, but also to clarify. Mr. Miguel Santos mentioned the famous « cool man! Forgetting to mention the context. It is true that it was delivered by a former PS leader, and the former Prime Minister of our country, by embracing a former PSD leader, and also the former Prime Minister, while they were both prepared to fail a promise — to subject to a referendum a European treaty — on which both parties had converged in a constitutional review.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u405	So beautiful, defending the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u406	And his example was more correct than it seems, because if it is true that this mechanism is, to a large extent, a concession to populism that will generate more populism — as already seen in the requirement that it is applied to ministers present — it is also true that it has not been seen, either by the PSD or by the PS, an alternative. It is in this sense that I use to make the clarification I was talking about. It's just that, dear André Pinotes Batista, you're not right. It is not true that, among all the parties that presented constitutional revision projects, there is no alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u407	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u408	Before all this happens, the Book presented, in draft constitutional review, an amendment to article 186. the Constitution, for a prior parliamentary hearing. It is always said — and so I conclude, Mr President — that it is not good to legislate on cases. They now have the opportunity to approve a proposal that was made before there were cases, before there was politicism. Let's see if they approve it or if they end up hugging, in another memorable' cool, man! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u409	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate my request that you try to respect the time allocated, because otherwise, in the afternoon it will be really very long. In reply, Mr Miguel Santos, who has three minutes for the aggregation of the two Mrs, has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen who have certainly had the honour to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u410	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Rui Tavares for this. It is clear that there is a risk of this mechanism becoming absolutely populist, because of its proliferation and being used as a pretext to justify all and any reason, especially the Prime Minister's inability to, at least, constitute a government of the right people. Attention: I do not say that the government does not have the right people. In fact, I think it's an injustice for those who are there in this condition, because, between the saint and the sinner, they all go in tears, and I don't intend to do that kind of interpretation either. On the PS / PSD alternative to the mechanism, we do not want to have any alternative to the mechanism. And here too, in an issue which Mr Pinotes Batista mentioned: there is no need for an alternative to the mechanism. The Constitution is very clear on this: the Prime Minister proposes and the President of the Republic appoints. Is there a problem with this? There's no problem with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u411	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u412	Do you know what the problem is? It is that, by chance, the country has a Prime Minister who does not have this capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u413	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u414	He cannot introduce a government, he cannot replace State Secretaries, he cannot replace ministers, without giving any more emphasis. Therefore, the problem is not, Mr Pinotes Batista and Mr Rui Tavares, in the Constitution, in the use of constitutional powers by this Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] Then there was another issue which Mr. Pinotes Batista pointed out, in a provocative way — that I accept and admit — that it was to recommend to us a certain type of conduct that we find more appropriate, especially so that the PSD does not burn the way to get to the chair of power.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u415	That's not exactly what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u416	Mr. Deputy, put the movie back there a little bit. Go to the box. You're very familiar with the box from back to front.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u417	Don't be jealous!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u418	Go to the box and see the impeachment that Antonio Costa made in the Socialist Party because he was in a hurry and willing to reach power at all costs, and—how did you say? — burning not only the way, but many people. So it's not a good example. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u419	Mr Miguel Santos, if I may, I commend you for the restraint and discipline of your answers. Now, let's move on to another group of two gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for the parliamentary group of arriving to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Santos, we agreed that we have never seen such a dance of chairs and so much cheated in so little time, so many doubts and suspicions of the use and abuse of public money, of clientisms, of friendship, of payment of favors, of family and personal profits, of everything less protection and promotion of the common good and of public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u421	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u422	The PS was caught with an absolute majority, and with this absolute majority there was a lack of absolute notion. If everything that had happened over 2022 was no longer enough, the year 2023 begins as the year that ended: with more scoundrels and new suspicions about newly appointed rulers. All these scandals came, without doubt, to cast a veil of suspicion over the government, particularly in the way its members choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u423	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u424	To close such a failure, the Government chose to introduce a questionnaire of 36 questions which, we agree, represent very little as a voting mechanism. It is even shameful to wish to withdraw ministers and State Secretaries in office of this scrutiny itself. In fact, the President of the Republic himself has made mention of this. I therefore ask you, Mr President, if, in addition to this questionnaire, we should not also have a parliamentary supervisory mechanism, carried out in the form of hearings before taking possession, with scrutiny of the opposition. Will the PSD be willing to review and follow up on this proposal? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u425	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs PAN, Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u426	Mr. President, Mr. Miguel Santos, thank you for bringing this subject to debate. Indeed, the phenomena of corruption, the benefits and conflicts of interests that have fattened our society — and that do not concern the government — are worrying and should have answers which, in the view of the NAP, do not co-operate with mere forms, which are no more than a handful of nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u427	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u428	Not only because of what they represent — a lack of a credible response to both political power and citizens' confidence in institutions and democracy itself — but also because of their effectiveness. We accompany the concern of the questionnaire not being applied to government members, with due relief. It is factual and fair to say that not all people in politics should be understood and understood in the same bag as the cases that came to the public. There are people who have served the common good, regardless of the political forces they represent, and the fact that wheat is being confused with juicy is also a damage to democracy and citizens' confidence in political power. But there is a concern that we cannot neglect, which is the answer. The NAP has already introduced a set of proposals to improve the current regime for the exercise of public functions, in order to avoid conflicts of interest, and will introduce a proposal that brings more transparency in the expenditure and tax benefits granted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u429	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u430	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because there, yes, we can see how important a ruler can have in the public or private sector. A short time ago, he said that there is no need for any amendments, and I therefore ask whether or not the PSD is available to monitor amendments, which can effectively mitigate these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u431	To reply, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u432	Mr President, Mr Rui Afonso, from the Czech Republic, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN, thank you. In fact, you are right, Mr, it is a huge dance of chairs. It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace, and a misfortune never comes alone. in this case they are echoes of misfortune, because they are continually happening, every week. So, at this moment, the Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party have objectively increased responsibility for all others, because it is you who really support this government. The country needs stability, and I don't see how the government will begin to rule effectively while walking in these chairs dances. Because this consumes time, energy, availability. You have the responsibility to try to put some judgment on the head of the government, to try to put some judgment on the head of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u433	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u434	Why does the Prime Minister, presenting the questionnaire as the solution, not submit it to all government members?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u435	He's scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u436	He's short! The Prime Minister invented the question of the questionnaire. We all know that, some recognize it and others do not. The Prime Minister invented the question of the questionnaire, it was an invention! It is the legendary ability of Antonio Costa to maneuver between mazes and corridors and invent things. He invented the questionnaire, and now that he invented the questionnaire, he's with the boy in his hands. He is with the boy in his hands and has to submit the questionnaire to all government members, or he will treat them unequally. When a next problem arises with a member of the government — God wants us not to, but we agree, to the letter of what is going on — how is it? Will the Prime Minister shake the water again? I think it's hard. I don't think so. In conclusion, which I still have some time left, on the issue which has already been defended by the House many times, which is parliamentary supervision, an election, a submission of candidates, a member of the government or proto-candidates to an evaluation committee, Mr President, we can no doubt reflect on this. There is no taboo or dogma, we can reflect on it. But I also challenge you and your parliamentary group. They reflect on this: imagine that we are in 2015, that the PSD and CDS had just won the elections and were forming government. You didn't exist at that time, but I imagine there was this mechanism. With voracity — as Mr Pinotes Batista said, "to burn the way to the chair of power" — of the united left, who ruled our country in this way for at least six years, imagine what would have been a hearing for the establishment of the minority government in the hands of that emotional and political climate that existed in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u437	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u438	It seems very difficult, indeed. Think about it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u439	There is a new round of requests for clarification to Mr Miguel Santos. For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u440	Mr President, Mr Miguel Santos, the questionnaire which was presented and decided by the Government does not solve the fundamental problem we are facing. The fundamental problem we are facing is that of subordination of political options to the interests of economic groups; that of promiscuity between political power and economic power, which we condemn. at the same time as we condemn these options of right-wing policy—which has, moreover, been the protagonists not only of the Socialist Party, but also of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and the CDS —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u441	The CDS isn't here anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u442	... we denounce the lack of answers that are necessary to solve the problems that affect workers, pensioners and our country. Let us not forget this lack of response or allow it to be devalued in this political debate. There are those who depend on these circumstances to pretend that it is opposition to the government, but when we talk about the concrete problems that affect workers, that affect reformers, that affect our country, and when we talk about the need to respond to these concrete problems, what we see in the Assembly of the Republic is a convergence between the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u443	Is that a CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u444	In response to a request for clarification, you said recently that stability is needed. I would say more: stability is necessary in the lives of those who work; stability, security and trust are necessary in the lives of workers and in the lives of reformers. What is needed to ensure this stability? Oh, my God! It is the increase in wages, the increase in pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u445	What about the precariousness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u446	... the control of prices and the strengthening of public services, the National Health Service — the problem we have brought here today — and the public school. In fact, a policy must put an end to this promiscuity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u447	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u448	I will finish, Mr. President. A political option is needed to put an end, indeed, to this promiscuity, to a policy that meets the answers that are necessary. The Portuguese do not need alternance, but, yes, a political alternative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u449	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u450	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u451	... in which wages, pensions, public services and defence of the public interest are actually present.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u452	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u453	What I wanted to ask the PSD is this: where is it located? Is that really what we do not know — in line with the PS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, in rejecting the solutions that are necessary? Is it, as it has always been, in governance, favouring the interests of the economic groups? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u454	Now, from the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u455	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Santos, the issue that has brought us today - soon to popular wisdom, to that popular maxim that « after the stolen house, locks on the door », not only because of the question of the mechanism, of the questionnaire, which was created by Mr. Prime Minister, but also, above all, because « after the stolen house », we saw Mr. Prime Minister go to Coimbra, to a meeting of the Socialist Party, and say to the whole Socialist Party : « Stop there! We can't exaggerate. We have to be careful! Do not keep on seeking. ” I have once faced Mr. Prime Minister with this. It is because the Government of the Socialist Party — the governments of António Costa in the last seven years — the champions of the creation of working groups, task forces, monitoring and related committees, and many informal units — is unable to create an informal unit of one or two people, in Mr. Prime Minister's office, to ask questions to those who are appointed to be in government. You don't need 36 questions. A short time ago, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, in the statement he made, said that there would be only three. And you don’t have to be in a role; it’s to get to someone’s feet and ask, “Do you have conflicts of interest? Did you get public funds? Do you have any problems with justice? In view of this, they can assess whether they then send the name to the Palace of Bethlehem so that the President of the Republic can make the appointment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u456	It's a good synthesis!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u457	The most funny thing is that, despite the creativity being so much, it starts to miss, because about 20 of the 36 questions are redundant in relation to the statement that any member of the Government must then hand over to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, there are questions within 36, which are redundant between themselves and which are then redundant in relation to the statement they are going to have to make. It's a creativity that's starting to miss. This, of course — as Mr André Pinotes Batista quotes the Constitution as saying that there is no deresponsibility — is a mechanism for deresponsibility. Of course! [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] I remember that there was a first experience, trying to do what is also vulgarized as the "bear embrace" to Mr. President of the Republic, who said immediately: "Don't think about it! It's not gonna be like that. Then came the questionnaire of the 36 questions. So this is really that modality that Mr. Prime Minister has already used to us: that of deresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u458	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u459	I conclude, Mr. President. The question, Mr Miguel Santos, is as follows: in this mode of « waving the water from the hood », what is the artistic note given to the Prime Minister? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u460	To answer that question from the artistic note and others, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u461	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the artistic note is not going out, because I don't know if we're talking about ballet, gymnastics, fencing, or darts. I have no idea! So I don't dare, I don't risk getting into these paths. [[Rice from IL.]] Mrs Paula Santos said that the questionnaire did not resolve and spoke of the traditional subordination of political power to economic power.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u462	That's right! It's a serious problem, but you don't want to talk about it! And you can see why!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u463	Madam Member, I reject this qualification at all. for my part, I am not subject to any economic power, so if you have something to say, get up and say, but present the names, name and specify, so that you can get the right answer. When it started in that wave, I must admit that I stopped paying much attention to what I was saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u464	You don't care, do you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u465	But in spite of everything, the honourable Member said something important and true. You're right: this questionnaire doesn't solve. That was your sentence and you're absolutely right: nothing solves it. The government gave us a pretext, gave us the entertainment of the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u466	You don't want to talk about the basic problems! You don't want to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u467	It seems like something, even, almost lunatic that we went two weeks ago to discuss a questionnaire and nothing else. In the meantime, the questionnaire does not resolve, because the Government, while it is being entertained by it, does not, in fact, govern and does not solve — then, now yes, responding to the second part of the speech by the honourable Member — the problems of the Portuguese, the reformers, the workers, of all those who are experiencing a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u468	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u469	Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, the President of the Republic asked the Prime Minister for good sense. I mean, this has a history, right? Oh, my God! This is a novel — so ridiculous, it seems to me — and it has a history. The Prime Minister launches, at the end of a debate, the history of the mechanism, the President of the Republic says no, then puts the thing in the bathroom, and then the Prime Minister has to get something else and submits the questionnaire. The President of the Republic says'may be, may be, may be' because there has to be some solution, since the Prime Minister cannot present a fully suitable government, or mostly suitable, is he not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u470	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u471	So we have reached the third part, where the President of the Republic recommends—of course, of what were you waiting for? Oh, my God! — that the questionnaire, so important, so decisive for the constitution of the Government, is submitted to all members of the Government. Obviously! The President of the Republic speaks in « common sense». The President of the Republic says that the Prime Minister must have good sense, and that good sense is achieved if the Prime Minister corresponds to the action and initiative of submitting all members of the Government to the said questionnaire, to the 36 questions. Therefore, if the Prime Minister does not do so, he is a Prime Minister, in the capacity of the President of the Republic, without good sense. Moreover, since the questionnaire is confidential and secret, we're here talking about something we'll never know. We will never know if someone who went through the questionnaire was presented, but was rejected for other political reasons, or something worth it! We'll never know if someone who didn't pass the questionnaire was presented...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u472	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u473	...and was rejected by that way. So paranoia is such a way, that we're talking about something we'll never know, because it's stealthy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u474	We shall now turn to the political declaration of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. To that end, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u475	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to start with a metaphor, but a metaphor that is real. This socialist government, this socialist majority, in everything looks like the Titanic: great, very large — too great, even — to put water everywhere, to begin sinking and, worse than everything, to take the Portuguese and Portugal to the bottom.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u476	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u477	Mrs. Members, we have an inflation that reaches 10 %; we have the reference interest rates, which are used in housing credit, still reaching 4 % this year; we have the highest taxes of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). The Portuguese families have gone through serious—very serious! — difficulties and what did the Socialist Government do to attenuate them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u478	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u479	Zero! Nothing! The arrival proposed, in this chamber,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u480	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u481	... the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of food products to the zero rate. What was the response and concern of this government and its bench towards the Portuguese? Oh, my God! Zero! “Ball”!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u482	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u483	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, with immediate support, tries to disguise the misery that this country has brought. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the Socialist Party — our Portuguese people do not need your alms; they need dignity; they need fair wages; they need relief from the tax burden that torments them. That is what they need and not socialist alms, which, when necessary, you are always ready to give! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, despite this sacrifice that the Portuguese still have to take daily on television with news that should embarrass us all, as politicians, but mainly you, the Government and the Socialist Party. We should be ashamed when we see a TAP administrator taking almost 45 000 € a month home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u484	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u485	This administrator will still receive a bonus, in 2025, very loud, which will toast, will melt 3, 2 billion euros of taxes that the Portuguese, with difficulty, pay. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, those are the ones who pay them! These are the ones that support the salary of this lady and all her administration; they support the purchase of 79 BMW to directors of this company; they support the 450 € that these directors and administrators have to spend monthly on Uber; they are the ones who pay all this play that is the TAP and the airline business. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is decoration and responsibility for returning the dignity that the Portuguese need and deserve. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In addition, on this issue, which is ancient, the following: while many Portuguese try to survive and have to choose between putting food on the table for their children or paying the medication they need, this TAP Administration fired 3000 workers from the company, plus 1200 from White Airways, the result of a contract concluded, it is known there as well as with a company from Estonia. It's 4200 layoffs. For these, there is no money, but for the large wages and compensation of €500 000 for a woman who arrived at the State Secretary of this government, for that, there is already money! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's decorum, there's shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would also like to add to this role of difficulties which the Portuguese are experiencing, a problem which you fear will not solve, due to lack of competence or lack of will, that is housing. Housing is the biggest misfortune the Portuguese have to face, along with the high taxes we have. The housing had an average price rise of 18 % in 2022. We warned in this House that urgent measures were needed and we proposed the return of the bonus credit. What was the response of the Minister of Mission and the current Minister of Housing? Oh, my God! It was this: "Portuguese cannot be indebted. Do not keep on seeking. ” No, you can't be in debt. The Government refuses to give EUR 180 million, which was the cost of the bonus credit per year, but admits waste of more than EUR 1000 million per year in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u486	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u487	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must end this indecency and the way the Portuguese people treat it. I shall finish, Mr President, with an appeal to the Portuguese who listen to us at home. Do not give up our country, do not give up your dignity. Hang on, because soon the arrival will be government and here will be to return this dignity to you, to return to you the justice you deserve and the living conditions you need, and to bring back to our country the millions of migrants who have been forced to leave. These, yes—which are Portuguese—are needed here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u488	The Bureau shall not record any request for clarification from the honourable Member. [[Ohhh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u489	They've been clarified!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u490	The PS has heard and is silent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u491	After all, there seems to be a request for clarification. Mr. Paulo Moniz had asked for the floor. He didn't walk through the normal channels, but anyway, it's like he's been through them. You shall immediately have the floor for a request for clarification to Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u492	Mr President, Mr Filipe Melo, I thank you for bringing the theme of the TAP. While we were in this debate, we learned from the news that there seems to be another administrator who received a compensation of EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u493	It's always going up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u494	Each passing day, the value is doubled, and it seems that as a result the TAP decided to conduct an external audit of the compensation already paid. We are on an allucinogenic escalation of the management of the TAP, and it is therefore very important for us to bring this matter, because here is the problem of an ideological option of the Government of the Socialist Party, which, shielded by the pandemic, justifies having handed over to the TAP 3200 million euros of Portuguese, with a difference compared to the other countries. It is that the other countries helped airlines, lent taxpayers' money, but applied an interest. Germany, for example, has recovered EUR 700 million. What happened in Portugal? Oh, my God! There were EUR 3200 million placed for taxpayers at zero interest, thoroughly lost, without any responsibility for return — indeed, it has already been assumed that the money will not be returned — with an aggravating: the country has no liquidity to put EUR 3200 million in the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u495	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u496	This money is owed in the name of the Portuguese, their children and grandchildren. We are disrespecting what should be the intergenerational justice of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u497	It's to give to the friends of the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u498	Moreover, in the rush of privatizing TAP, notice that there is something absolutely incomprehensible: we are putting fresh money on TAP and those who come to buy TAP take the money from the Portuguese, given the zero cost. But it's not Portuguese money! Even if we had a surplus, it was finally a possible option, but no, the Portuguese and their children will pay a debt and the interest of a debt for the money that any foreigner comes here for at the balance price.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u499	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u500	Don't privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u501	Well, the PSD had already noticed what — they're freaking out! — Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, it seems that by fashion and the countercycle, he said in this House this week in relation to Efacec : « The State is not a good shareholder. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u502	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u503	I conclude, Mr. President. Mr President, he has reaffirmed what the PSD has said about TAP for a long time, so it seems that the Minister has the clarity that the rest of the Government and the Socialist Party do not have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u504	Mr. Paulo Moniz, I renew my apology. In fact, the Bureau had not registered with you, but your request for clarification is made. I now give the floor to Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u505	Mr President, Mr Paulo Moniz, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. Let me tell you that I agree with what you said. It is the zeal of the various socialist governments to melt public money, to pour public money into their belo-pleasing, in the companies in which they are interested in doing so, and then the right to clean up the dirty work that the Socialist Party usually does.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u506	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u507	We are used to it, I agree with you, but I will give you some bad news, Mr. Paulo Moniz. Go get used to it and get ready, because we are already prepared so that we will soon have to be called to the ground to clean up this socialist disgrace that this government has done in the TAP. There is no longer much time left and the compensation you mentioned, of EUR 1, EUR 2 million, I think, must not be a single case. Many others are to be discovered, within the TAP and not only. Therefore, Mr. Paulo Moniz, I share with you your concern and renew this hope of quickly having to be called upon to resolve another serious problem that the Socialist Party leaves in the right hand. There we will certainly be to avoid the bankruptcy that the Socialist Party is preparing to lead the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u508	For a political declaration, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. As usual, during the intervention, the Bureau shall register the entries for requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u509	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When in February 2014 this House discussed the projects that resulted in the criminalization of ill-treatment and abandonment of pet animals, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy issued an opinion stating that it did not see how the acts of unjustified cruelty practiced on any animal would not meet in such a strict prediction of the norm, even criticizing the fact that the Assembly of the Republic does not protect other animals beyond pets. Portugal's progress on this date was undoubtedly a civilizational progress, despite all the shortcomings of the law. In the first instance sentence, which applied to the defendant who smashed the bitch Pantufa, a pregnant bitch, and laid his still-lived offspring for the trash can, a 16-month prison sentence, the judge declared: "I am not a fundamentalist of animals; I am a fundamentalist against cruelty. » And he added: "This man has to be in jail. If the chain doesn't serve cruelty, what's the point? Do not keep on seeking. ” However, it was this same case that originated the first declaration of unconstitutionality of the law that criminalizes and places ill-treatment on pets. The doctrine, several magistrates and civil society have, over the years, claimed for more protection to animals, recognizing that it constitutes a civilized data acquired in modern societies respect for animals and that the relationship of human beings with pets already has a relevance to the legal order that cannot be ignored, also repudiating shocking cases that have come to the public: animals beaten with iron bars; bitches hanged because they had the chance to become pregnant; animals torn in the context of domestic violence; animals left to die to hunger; animals trapped by cars and dragged by the road, among so many other cases that we could exemplify. These are animals that feel and suffer, just like those we all have and love in our homes. They are cases that have generated, and generate, strong social indignation, which society has always seen as crimes, even when it was not written in law, and will continue to see them as crimes, if the incomprehensible backwardness that the Constitutional Court is now advocating. The ability to feel animals is, for many years, unanimously recognized by science. This recognition was reflected in the legal order of the developed countries, which started criminalizing acts of cruelty and crimes committed against animals. Portugal was no exception, criminalizing ill-treatment and abandonment of pets, creating its own legal status that recognizes that animals are live beings endowed with sensitivity. But, incomprehensiblely, in the middle of the 21st century, we not only saw the rise of barriers to the protection of animals, but also the rise of legal obstacles under the chance of the Constitutional Court. After the counseling judges have judged unconstitutional 11 cases of ill-treatment of pet animals, in a conservative and fully sent reading of the principles emanating from the Constitution, the Public Prosecutor's Office requested the Constitutional Court's assessment of the rule criminalizing ill-treatment and the death, without legitimate grounds, of pet animals — Article 387. the Criminal Code — with a view to declaring its unconstitutionality with general force. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is incomprehensible that the interpretation of the Constitution by the Judges of the Ratton Palace is stagnant and not dynamic, and that it is seen in the Basic Law a brake on questions and values based and rooted in society, ignoring the need for the application of general laws to specific cases, which were not initially provided by the legislator, also ignoring the very principles emanating from the Constitution and the letter of the Basic Law itself. It is incomprehensible that, with the chance of the Constitutional Court, the ill-treatment of pets becomes outside the law, telling our country that it is legitimate to kill and mistreat an animal, saying that whoever does this can go unpunished and be without any kind of consequence, contrary to values based not only on society, as in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in less than 15 days, more than 62 000 people have signed a petition in defense of the law criminalizing the ill-treatment and abandonment of pets, opposing the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, asking that this House do something and that the judges advisers do not declare the unconstitutionality of this norm. More than 70 conceptual lawyers signed a manifesto in defense of the constitutionality of the law. Among these names are retired judges, judges in the active and former judges of the Constitutional Court, as well as personalities of several quadrants, such as Prof. Armando Leandro, Prof. Maria Candida Almeida, Prof. Rogério Alves, Dr. Dulce Rocha, Prof. Rui Pereira or Prof. Maria da Conceição Valdágua. The criminal protection of animals is neither, nor can it be, considered unconstitutional. That would be a serious reversal of values in our society. In view of this incomprehensible position of the Constitutional Court and the Public Ministry, we recall that, in 2020, when the last amendment to the Criminal Code was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, this amendment was unanimously approved by political forces which currently form this Assembly. This means that we have more than the quorum necessary not only to amend the Constitution, but also to ensure that the Penal Code itself is amended. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, animals cannot, in their vulnerability, wait for a constitutional review and remain at the mercy of impunity for such crimes. The NAP will not lower its arms and will present a new proposal for amendment to the Criminal Code, in addition to the ongoing constitutional review process. Before some of the Members and some of the Members. Members say that it does not make sense to change these criminal norms, while moving forward with a constitutional review process, I remember that what makes no sense, and what is at stake here, is to return victims of ill-treatment to their aggressors and to pass on impunity acts of extreme cruelty. What makes no sense is that the State has to end by paying compensation to those who have abused animals and who have been convicted by a law that could now be considered unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I recall Martha Nussbaum's words: " Non-human animals are capable of a condimension. It is difficult to specify what this phrase may mean, but it is relatively clear what it does not mean. [...] The fact that humans act in a way that denies this existence seems to be a matter of justice, and an urgent matter. Do not keep on seeking. ” Never, as today, have these words made so much sense. It is urgent that this House do something to protect animals in our country, because mistreating an animal, yes, is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u510	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification to you by Mrs Rita Matias and the Members. Deputies Duarte Alves, Pedro Filipe Soares and Pedro Delgado Alves. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u511	I shall answer all together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u512	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Then, Mrs. Deputy of the parliamentary group of the Arrival, Rita Matias, will immediately use the word for a request for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we thank the subject that brought us the debate because, indeed, we believe that the foreseeable outcome for this law is indeed a civilizational backwardness, since a balanced society exists only with respect for life, for human beings and, of course, also for animals. It should be emphasized that, since this law was passed, this was one of the most reported crimes, which effectively shows the need for this law. It is also important to note that, according to studies, those who abuse animals have more predisposition to treat people and goods and, therefore, is serious what is being done. The application of the law of abuse of animals was considered unconstitutional three times by the Constitutional Court and the position of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic is therefore not surprising. For this reason, he presented, as soon as September, a proposal for a constitutional review aimed at solving this problem, including the rights of animals in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u514	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u515	In addition, and aware of the seriousness of this situation, we presented a proposal that considerably increased the fines applied to those who abuse or compromise animal welfare, which was proposed by the Socialist Party and the Left Block, with whom Mrs Deputy likes to be accompanied. The honourable Member has announced from the rostrum what she is going to do here, but it is important to know what the NAP has done before, what the NAP has been doing to prevent and complete this situation, knowing that the NAP is one of the Socialist Party's preferred partners for negotiation. Let us remember the period of discussion of the Budget, when they separated up to the votes for the NAP to negotiate with the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u516	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u517	Where was this concern about animals at that time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u518	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u519	We would also like to take this moment to say that the NAP has rendered a bad service in the defense of animals, insofar as it has radicalized the discourse in the supposed defence, but achieved little. Above all, it has shown a fundamentalism that does not translate into the defense of animals. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, please explain to us what you have done before and what you have demanded from the PS at the negotiating table. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u520	Now to make a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u521	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. As regards constitutional issues, they will have to be discussed and decided by the Constitutional Court, but the opportunity he gave us with his political statement allowed us to review the PCP's declaration of vote on the 2014 law, which has now consecrated the abuse of animals as a crime. This statement of vote by the CFP states: 'The choice for the creation of new types of crime, because of the consequences and seriousness it implies, must be a last resort. It is an option that has proved to be wrong and ineffective when there are no mechanisms to prevent, control and control behaviours that are intended to be avoided. Choosing the application of prison sentences in cases of ill-treatment or abandonment of pets, without any means of preventing such situations, is disproportionate and contributes to creating wrong expectations. Do not keep on seeking. ” We would like to ask the honourable Member whether, over the past nine years, these other measures that would be necessary — to bet on prevention, control and supervision, strengthening the means of State control and supervision — have been applied or not. It is that, in fact, criminalizing without doing everything else, without doing all the way of prevention, control and supervision, it can often take no place either in this area or in many other areas of life in our country. in another passage from the PCP declaration of vote, it is said that, on the other hand, the legislation in force at the time, although insufficient, essentially responsible the State for monitoring and preventing ill-treatment of pet animals and that that amendment introduced the idea of the possibility of being passed to citizens a responsibility that is of the State, as well as a power to use these complaints, often not for real cases of animal abuse, but for problems of neighbouring. We know that has often been the complaints that have arisen over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u522	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u523	In conclusion, Mr President, by asking the NAP whether or not it is considered that monitoring of animal abuse should be an essential responsibility of the State and that, for this, the means that have been lacking over the past few years are necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u524	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u525	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate her on the subject that brought about the debate, which is worrying, because, when decisions and proceedings are under way on animals that have been abused and that the law would protect, by putting this law at stake, everything is laid down on the ground. I believe that all those who voted in favour of this law, which we consider to be a step forward in defending animal rights, were at least heartbroken and convinced that this circumstance should never have happened. It is, for us, incomprehensible that such is happening! The Constitutional Court has the right of decision, it has the power to make; we have the power to disagree with its decisions, and we have disagreed with them. There is at present an ongoing constitutional review, which can resolve the problem at once. We have tabled amendments to this effect and we have not been the only party to do so. I believe that the honourable Member has done so and the Socialist Party too. At least these are the ones I remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u526	It's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u527	Therefore, there is this possibility of altering, when and if the constitutional review succeeds, this constitutional provision and thereby eliminate from time to time the suspicions that the Constitutional Court has submitted and that may lead to the declaration of unconstitutionality. However, the honourable Member puts on the table the possibility that there would be a legal solution to this effect. We do not close the door to this discussion and we have the willingness to work together, if necessary, to reach an alternative. If we succeed in doing so in good time, even better because, more than party matters, more than we will be pulling another pellet, by a pin that is there with a certain party, it is the defense of animal welfare and a civilizational advance—that, I believe, we all have reached — that is now at stake. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u528	To conclude the wording of the requests for clarification, I now have the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u529	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, thank you also for the relevance of the issue which you raise and which we have already had the opportunity to discuss. There is, in fact, a difference of degree. It is known that cases of unconstitutional judgment have led to an application for abstract judgment, but this obviously does not ensure that the Court of First Instance, in its plenary session, is pronounced in the sense of unconstitutionality. A first important note on this debate is that Parliament will respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, whatever it is, and give its own space and time for the Constitutional Court to render its judgment. We can all disagree—and we probably disagree—of an interpretation which considers unconstitutional the criminalization of ill-treatment of pets. If that were not the case, we would not have voted in favour of this criminalization, we and all the parliamentary groups who did so. But we must give this note: what is certain is that, in our legal order, the interpretation which will make faith and will have general force is that which the Court will set. This is important, because it is essential that the coherence of the system be maintained and that the validity of the decisions of the Court continue to be recognised even when we do not like them, because when it was relevant to stop cuts in wages and pensions, or when it is relevant to hinder backlogs to labour law, it is essential that the Constitutional Court maintain its authority. That is why I will not take any account of the nature of the interpretations that can be made there, with the good faith and the smoothness that all the jurists who make up the Constitutional Court today will have. So we're not going that way. I stress another aspect of your intervention and it is in relation to that which I think there is some space for reflection. Indeed, what is on the table, as regards the known decisions, are basically two questions, and one of them relates to the possible absence of a legal good in the Constitution to justify the incrimination. This is a matter which, as has already been mentioned, can be clarified in the context of a constitutional review, so that there is no doubt that our constitutional text covers this protection, which would therefore enable this criminalization. However, there is another issue, which concerns, in some of the decisions, the possible indeterminability of the standard. In other words, it would not be technically appropriate to meet the indeterminability.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u530	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u531	I will finish, Mr. President. On this issue, there is indeed legislative work which, eventually, the Assembly of the Republic can develop and which, to the limit, can even prove that the other issue is only a minority in the Court of First Instance and which will not necessarily be overdue. The question that I am leaving is whether it is essential to have a proper space and to let the Court, with all its safety and all its independence, decide, and then, on the basis of that, we will do what we are doing, without prejudice, of course, in relation to the points that are within our reach, that we may eventually intervene. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u532	To respond to requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u533	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, all the questions raised and I begin by answering the last question, that of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. When he speaks in his own space for the Court to decide, it is with great concern that we find that, in cases such as that of Santo Tirso, the aggressors have already asked for the return of the animals, who were victims not only of ill-treatment, but also of negligent conditions. Therefore, a proper space for deciding about animal welfare does not coincide with the suffering perpetrated and with some of the absolutely grotesque acts that have been practiced. There is a dimension which the honourable Member has mentioned and which we are accompanying, which is the fact that this House has the power and duty, from the point of view of legislative promotion, to correct one of the dimensions which has been pointed out by the majority of the sections and the consulting judges, which is precisely the question of the densification of the concepts provided for in the standard. I think that would go far beyond what has been mentioned by the Constitutional Court. With regard to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, it is pleased that we check this availability to work together so that, in fact, we can, at least in the Criminal Code and then, of course, in the constitutional review, achieve a stronger level of animal protection. But I am saying again: it is obviously urgent that this House do something, because what cannot happen is that thousands of animals throughout this country are returned to aggressors, stay in the hands of these same aggressors, due to an absolutely incomprehensible legal gap. We must not forget that this violence against animals must be viewed as a violation of the principles emanating from the Constitution and Article 66. , which guarantees us the right to a healthy environment and human development, either of the family's own right, when more than half of Portuguese families and households have pets. The very letter of the law tells us that the Court must look at existing international standards such as Article 13. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So there is a way to go and we are glad to be accompanied. Mr Duarte Alves, there is a dimension of what you said I cannot follow, which is the question of the choice for new types of crime. The criminalization of ill-treatment of pets was not only a civilizational step, as it protects animals and people. Animal abuse is often the tip of the iceberg — and so I also reply to Mrs Rita Matias — because, often, these ill-treatments start in the animals and end up in the people. We cannot ignore the fact that there is a preventive effect on the part of criminal law, a repairing effect, that counter-ordinary law cannot fulfil. We agree that more scrutiny is needed and that is why the NAP has proposed and has managed, in this Budget, to enter a standard that aims to ensure more training for police and magistrates, as well as, already in the past budget, has achieved the extension of the Animal Protection Programme throughout the country. Mrs. Rita Matias asked what the NAP has done. The NAP has done a lot for animals and also for people and for nature, precisely because we are a political dialogue force with the other political forces and because we have reached consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u534	They are an extinct political force!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u535	The honourable Member is working in error: fines already exist. I recall that it was precisely in the past legislature that the NAP and this Assembly of the Republic were able to amend the animal protection law and establish a set of rules that constitute not only counter-ordinations for those who abuse all animals, as in the possibility of seizure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u536	What about the horses in the Moita? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u537	This animal protection law includes all...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u538	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u539	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I was saying, this law includes all animals, without exception, from pets to horses, cows or any other. [[Protests by Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] If you think radicalizing speech is our option, I have to tell you that I am radically inclusive. [[Protests by Mr Pedro Pinto.]] This means respecting not only the rights of people but also the rights of animals. That is why, in the State budget and the legislative policy we have pursued, we have achieved EUR 13 million to meet all these gaps and, in the review of 2020, it was the hand of the NAP that changed not only the Penal Code, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u540	You've spent more than a minute saying that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u541	under Article 77 ( 2 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, I now give the floor to Mr Porfirio Silva to make a political statement on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u542	Twice today? Oh, my God! No one deserves it! What a punishment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u543	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : This Parliament will enter into a decisive stage of the evaluation of draft laws relating to polytechnic higher education. In summary, two questions are under consideration : the first is whether the polytechnics should be able to grant the degree of Doctor ; the second is whether the designation « Higher Polytechnic Institute » should be replaced by « Polytechnic University ». In my understanding of representative democracy, representation builds collectively. That is why we organize ourselves in parliamentary groups and seek shared answers to national problems. However, this does not relieve us of the individual responsibility for the decisions and their consequences, which is why I want to leave an individual contribution—I stress, individual! — for the ongoing debate on policies. As regards the issue of doctors, today the system is mature so that we can remove the legal brake that automatically sees the doctor's degree grant to the institutions of the political subsystem. The recognised contribution of the polytechnics to the materialization of doctoral programmes is a substantive argument in favour of this option. Since the amendment of the Higher Education Degrees and Diplomas Legal Regime in 2018, the existence of a legal framework capable of ensuring that we will only have recognized quality doctorates based on the specific conditions of each institution and of each doctorate makes this decision safe. The question of doctors is closely linked to the question of research. at this point, it should be remembered that the Basics Act integrates research into both the mission of the university subsystem and the polytechnic subsystem, although it makes a distinction between fundamental research and applied research, which is today an epistemologically fragile and low operational value distinction. For all this, I believe that the time has come to approve at this point the essential of the proposal for a citizens' legislative initiative and of the proposals of the Left Block and the CFP. As far as designation is concerned, it is proposed that the higher political institutes, universally and automatically, should be referred to as 'polytechnic universities'. One country of our size would thus be able to have three dozen institutions called "universities" and we would call "university" to institutions without conditions to organize doctors, even after removing the legal brake. It deserves attention to the argument that the correct identification of the profile of an institution matters in the strategies of internationalization. This is true, but the resolution of the issue of doctors radically changes the present situation: belonging to a subsystem with the ability to grant the degree of Doctor eliminates any confusion with other degrees of teaching and greatly benefits the institutional profile of the polytechnics, creating an excellent card of international visit. Politicians have given the country a lot and we must continue to invest in pursuing this path, but there is only one path to success, which is the quality of training, organisation and research, which translates into greater value for the territories. Everything that may seem mere 'legislative cosmetic' will harm the policies themselves. An important part of the value that polytechnics represent for the country is the diversity they offer. Higher education must offer diversity, higher education institutions cannot do all the same and the diversity of supply is required by the diversity of demand. There are students and teachers looking for polytechnic education, because it gives them the tools for life they want to have. This has also been one of the success factors of political education and its enormous contribution to the democratization of higher education. We recognize that diversity is not an automatic result of the binary system. Deep diversity is diversity between institutions, but the binary system is a useful regulator in promoting diversity. Experiences of radical deregulation have proved to be bad, as in the United Kingdom, where they hoped that the so-called "free competition between institutions" would guarantee the diversity of supply in a formally unified system. However, the only thing that the myth of spontaneous order managed was to deepen the stratification between universities of first and other that, unable to count on regulation to compensate for the symbolic and historical disadvantage, are increasingly seen as second-class institutions. However, this same experience hampered the expansion of vocational education and short courses, especially adult training, requiring new institutions to fill this role. I believe that Portugal cannot afford to make the same mistakes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u544	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u545	... with an appeal: we have the responsibility of saving higher education than a war between institutions because of the poorly assimilated subject of the change of designation. By eliminating the blind brake to doctors in the polytechnics, we have opened a new way of qualitative deepening the system, but that will take time! Creating the conditions to offer doctorates, organize them, make research centers pass through the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation), make doctoral programs pass through the A3ES (Higher Education Assessment and Accreditation Agency), all this will take years. Within the framework of the evaluation of the RJIES (the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions) that comes there, there will be time to think about how best to integrate the new reality that will emerge from it, eventually changing the designations, or not, but in a mature way. There is no objective advantage in doing so already and there is the huge disadvantage of this change being made in a climate of disruption between universities and polytechnics, which, I believe, we all have a responsibility to avoid. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u546	Mr Porfirio Silva, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u547	For what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u548	One is from the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Topa Gomes, and the second from the Left Block Parliamentary Group of Mrs Joana Mortágua. I give the floor immediately to Mr António Topa Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group to make your request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u549	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here is very much about the quality of our higher education system and the success path that political education has drawn over the past 40 years. If we are here today to have this discussion, it is because there was a very significant improvement in the quality that allowed it. Therefore, it is with joy that the PSD participates in it. Mr Porfirio Silva spoke on his own behalf, but allow me to have a moment 'Olivia Patroa, Olivia Coutureira' and ask a question to the PS and Mr Porfirio Silva. The first question I put has to do with the following: we all know of the chronic underfunding of the higher education system, that which has not improved, on the contrary, has been worsening since 2015. So when we make a change that is not smaller, but a significant change, we may have to invest more money in the higher education system. I recall that, for example, in the Budget this year, we have an expected 4 % inflation, so the increase in higher education funds has clearly fallen short of this. So, Mr President, is it not feared that this will further aggravate the problems of higher education and that the problems of higher education — seeing what is happening with high school teachers — are they in any way spreading? It seemed to me that you do not agree with the change of name, so I ask what measures we could have, if possible, to achieve not only a quality assurance, but also a constance in possible name amendments. I also wonder if you are not afraid that there are some political institutions with the title 'university' and others without the title, if you create three different types of higher education institutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u550	Mr Porfirio Silva informed the Bureau that he wishes to respond to the two requests for clarification together, so he immediately has the floor of Mrs Joana Mortagua to make her own.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u551	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, your speech has the advantage of clarifying one aspect, although not in an absolutely transparent way, so that we can see whether this is the position of Mr Porfirio Silva or the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which will make all the difference. I would like to explain: the possibility of politicians confer a degree of Doctor was the target of a legislative initiative of citizens and an extended consensus in this Assembly of the Republic, passing several projects to discuss in the field of specialty. It seems to us, too, that the conclusion is that this possibility should exist, due to the degree of expertise and quality that our polytechnics have achieved. I will focus on this and not on the others, because I may not have enough time for them. It seems to me that what you have come to say was the following: 'All right, it is inevitable that the polytechnics can confer the degree of Doctor. This makes sense, but instead of completing the legislative process in which it specializes, i.e. to recognise, with a surgical change, this possibility, we will launch this process for the revision of the RJIES. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is not a matter of detail, because the review of the RJIES will entail significant changes in the structuring of higher education that this punctual change of doctoral studies does not imply. The change of the RJIES is a slow process and this would cause us to repeat a whole process in the field of specialty, which we have already done, on these proposals of the politicians. So what I would like to make clear is that, on the left side of the Block, we will not be available to postpone a change that we all believe is necessary, possible and desirable, and will throw it into a legislative review that will be complex and that will certainly have to address much more complicated and much more structural issues of higher education than something we already agree on. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u552	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor, which, to this end, by interpreting the Rules of Procedure, has three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u553	Mr President, I thank Mr António Topa Gomes and Mrs Joana Mortágua for the questions they have asked me. Let me begin by reaffirming that the intervention I have made was in my own name and does not bind my parliamentary group. I understood that there are deep issues of country organization and that I should talk about them. Mr António Topa Gomes and Mrs Joana Mortágua are members of the working group and they know that I, being the coordinator, have tried to avoid talking about this matter. Everyone talks about her and I just last week was that I gave my opinion for the first time on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u554	It's the PS bite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u555	So having been quiet all these months on this matter, I understood that I should give my testimony. This does not imply anything in my parliamentary group. Replying directly to Mrs Joana Mortágua, one thing is certain: I think it does not go through the head of my parliamentary group—at least, through my head, it does not happen—to stop completing the process that is in the center of expertise and to stop leading to the end. This process can be completed in various ways, depending on how parliamentary groups vote. That, I don't know, but obviously the process has to go to the end and one of the things we clearly said was that we can't get to a legislative process and say: "We decided later, because we have other things to discuss. Do not keep on seeking. ” I think I can recall what I said in my speech, in the debate in general. We said clearly — I did this intervention — that we supported the removal of the legal brake to the doctorate by the polytechnics. That was said very clearly. I have said that for a long time, in other instances, and I have made political commitments on behalf of my party on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u556	Do you speak for the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u557	I have no doubt about that. I think it is a question of justice, for all that the polytechnics have done for the country, for the coverage of the territory that the polytechnics give, because the country needs a rooting in the territories and the polytechnics were of the few public services that have never disappeared from the territory and that are expanding more and more. We have a debt to the politicians and we must give them this opportunity to deepen and consolidate their work, to do research and to put them to the service not only of the institution itself, but also of its territories and of the country. I think we owe that to the polytechnics. I have no doubt about that. The other question raises many other questions. I have talked to many people, personally and as a PS Member, in recent weeks, and I have come to the conclusion that there are many ideas about how this could evolve if we now changed the name, but I can see that not all interested people have the same idea of how this could be solved. My concern at the moment is doctors. The essential thing is to take this step in consolidating the project of the polytechnics, to allow the polytechnics to continue to do what they have done so important to the country, not create disturbances, not create divisions within their own policies, not create divisions between institutions... [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u558	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u559	I'm done now, Mr. President. He said that it is essential not to create divisions between institutions of two different subsystems. I have heard not only the leaders of the institutions, I have heard teachers, the university system and the political system, I have heard students, I have heard many people telling me that not always what institutional macrostructure seems to be what people at the base want. What I am concerned about is that we cannot make a hasty decision, which triggers a disruption, which launches a war, which launches a discord in a system which is vitally dependent on the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u560	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u561	The higher education system is not the government, it is not the Parliament. The life of higher education is the institutions and it is the institutions that we must preserve. That is my idea when I make this speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u562	We therefore conclude the point on political declarations and move on to the third item on our agenda, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 279 / XIV / 2. a ( Sofia Carolina de Sousa da Silva et al.) — Yes to the marketing and sharing of antiepileptic medicine. To speak, Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u563	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Epilepsy is a central nervous system disease that causes abnormal electrical discharges of neurons, and may result in varied symptoms, of which the most common is seizure. According to the Portuguese League against Epilepsy, according to Census 2021, and knowing the prevalence of epilepsy in Europe, the number of people with active epilepsy in Portugal will range from 60 000, of which 20 % to 30 % present at least one crisis per year. In the vast majority of cases, epilepsy is not curable, and its treatment should be highly personalized in order to avoid the dangers of seizures, which places a high importance on antiepileptic medication for disease control, also in acute situations. Moreover, when the person does not recover from the crisis in 5 minutes, it will be more difficult for the body to stop it. at the end of 30 minutes, it will enter the so-called « state of epilepsy», which may cause irreversible brain damage. in these cases, Buccolam acts as a first-line drug and first-choice drug. It is in this context that was also presented in the previous Parliament, the petition we are discussing today, signed by almost 13 000 citizens, to whom I take advantage of to greet. They then require the signatories that the Government will ensure access and participation in the Buccolam medicine in our country, which contains the active substance midazolam, whose therapeutic indication is indicated for the treatment of acute and prolonged seizures in infants, children, adolescents, from three months to a period of less than 18 years, avoiding potential irreversible physical and brain damage. Although only these age groups are mentioned in the pack, there are protocols and studies showing that a dose of 10 mg oral solution is effective as a rescue medicine for adults with epilepsy. Buccolam was approved by the European Medicines Agency in 2011, but until 2021 it had not arrived in our country, despite the efforts of associations and families with Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority) to make this drug available on the Portuguese market. The time for access to therapeutic innovation in Portugal is intense. Portuguese citizens have the right to greater transparency in these processes, with the increased efficiency of decision-making procedures, which should be able to meet the diagnostic and therapeutic needs of our patients. The medicine, whose participation is discussed, is a SOS drug for controlling seizures, recently made available on the Portuguese market, whose main advantage, in addition to the high efficacy, is the simple, fast and comfortable form of its administration, which is made through a syringe placed in the patient's mouth. Existing doses may be administered according to age group, allowing a more appropriate dose, contrary to rectal diazepam. It consists of four syringes, with the price around 98 €, which is uncomplicated for most of these families and compromises their access, leading to asymmetries in their treatment. This medicinal product must be between the choice range due to the extended efficacy, the agility of administration and the fight against stigma, and may be the difference between life and death. It is estimated for Portugal that the use of Buccolam at an average cost of €25/ dose may amount to some tens of thousands of doses per year, so its participation by the State would allow people with epilepsy to access this drug at a fair price. Knowing that the request for participation of this drug has already been submitted to the Portuguese State, the PSD calls on the Government to seriously consider the allocation of a participation to the medicinal product subject to this request, at least in terms identical to those currently planned for diazepam, which is 37 %. Portugal lacks drugs, some of them antiepiletic, such as clobazam and Rivotril, so replacement and, or abrupt interruption can lead to exacerbation of crises, so this lack should be corrected. Knowing that the country still has a long way to go in raising awareness of epilepsy and that it is facing a serious challenge to include people with these diseases, the decision that the Government takes regarding the participation of Buccolam will also assess the seriousness of the Executive and its real willingness to contribute to the end of stigmatization of epilepsy. For our part, in the PSD, we will not let this matter fall into the background. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u564	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u565	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I begin by greeting the more than 12,000 petitioners, many of them parents, mothers, caregivers of children and young people with epilepsy. They, better than anyone, know well the importance of having a drug that, in a simple and fast way, can stop a seizure and avoid injuries and consequences caused by these seizures. In their petition to the Assembly of the Republic, they require access to this medicine and it is a very fair requirement. After all, the medicine exists, it is easy to apply and has good results. So why isn't he accessible to these families? It's important to understand these causes. First, the medicinal product is not accessible not because of a lack of marketing authorisation, but because it is not willing to be marketed. Indeed, the Infarmed website itself refers to an authorisation for the introduction of this medicine, which dates from 2011. It happens that throughout this time, more than 10 years, pharmaceuticals did not want to do so, perhaps because they expected more profits than those they would get in Portugal, perhaps because they were expecting to be authorized, in addition to marketing, their participation by the National Health Service. Second, the pharmaceutical holder of the medicinal product will have requested the suspension of the participation process when it was bought by another pharmacist and this new entity ended up selling this medicine to a third laboratory. In the middle of the business, those who in Portugal were expected to access the medicine, which was being bought and sold as a commodity among pharmacists, were affected. Thirdly, as far as it is known, at the end of 2021, a new request for participation and evaluation was made and, which is known, has not yet resulted, which raises another problem that the Left Block has already pointed out: the delay in evaluation and participation of innovative medicines in Portugal. There are therefore a number of factors that continue to prevent access to this and other medicines and we have insisted that they be overcome, in particular, by the fact that the State retains the trade will of pharmaceuticals. On the one hand, if they find that in Portugal they do not make the profit they merely wish not to sell or even take their medicines, on the other hand, cause inaccessibility or ruptures, all to make medicines more expensive and thus also harm families. The government, instead of fighting this gula, goes back. Even now, the Minister of Health has announced that it will increase the price of medicines, adding inflation to inflation and increasing the cost of living to the crisis, withdrawing income from people. This is certainly not the way. Assessing more quickly, sharing more, forcing the marketing of authorised medicines and betting on own research and production is the only choice that will defend those who need access to this or other medicines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u566	I now give the floor to Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u567	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are bringing to discussion in this Chamber a petition 'yes to the marketing and participation of antiepileptic medicinal products'. I would like to congratulate the first petitioner, Sofia Carolina de Sousa da Silva, and in it the more than 12,000 subscribers. It was 12,804 citizens who subscribed to this petition, thus calling our attention to this issue. They request not only the availability of the drug Buccolam to all patients with epilepsy in Portugal, but also their participation. Buccolam, a commercially known name, has already been approved by the European Medicines Agency, as already said in 2011. It began to be sold in other European countries, being frequent to go from Portuguese to Spain, or to other countries, to purchase this medicine, before medical prescription — an effectively complex logistics and also unequal for the various users suffering from epilepsy. Buccolam has an oral administration through boredom, which makes its administration easier, in a crisis, unlike Stesolid, of more difficult administration, via rectal, leading to exposure and embarrassment of the person in a situation of epileptic crisis, given that it is necessary to dismiss it for its application. Being equivalent safety and efficacy in both medicines, Stesolid causes, however, in some children, according to testimony, lethargy and slowness, from the cognitive and motor point of view, resulting in difficulties in walking and balance. With Buccolam, in most cases, the child maintains the reasoning and motor capacity. Therefore, the impact of Stesolid is 90 %, and in Buccolam 5 % to 10 %, according to studies. You will also know the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of developing and hearing this petition, Infarmed was in negotiations with the pharmaceuticals for the marketing of this product, for which participation is requested. Today, fortunately, we can say that it is possible to obtain this medicine in Portuguese pharmacies. It was an important step forward for the confidence and quality of life of many children and young people who suffer from epilepsy. We recognize that there is now another way to go about sharing this medicine. The active substance is already shared in tablets, but not yet in oral solution. In April 2021, the Infarmed advance that the request for participation of Buccolam was made, having been the same filed, at the request of the company, provisionally due to the change of the owners thereof, as was reported. But the trial didn't go this way. With its marketing, a step has been taken and, as in other requests for participation, we now go through an evaluation process, which is, yes, ongoing and that the Socialist Party wants it to be as fast as possible for the benefit of the families of users suffering from epilepsy. Mrs. Members, certainly each of you has been with someone or has a relative or friend who suffers from epilepsy, the most common neurological disease in the world, and know how distressing it is to watch these crises or seizures. As has been said today in Portugal, there are about 40 000 to 70 000 people affected by this disease, which is chronic, and we know that one in 100 children suffers or may suffer from epilepsy. Epilepsy is a dysfunction of the nervous system characterized by crises resulting from changes in brain electrical activity, these crises that can be partial or generalized and whose manifestations vary depending on the areas of the brain affected, and may have variable duration and intensity and cause several lesions, including physical injuries, such as bone fractures. Still, the diagnosis of epilepsy can be felt as a great inconvenience, either by the patient or by his family, given the impact on development and social relations. Most people with epilepsy have a normal life, taking place on a personal, family and professional level, but everything that can be done to promote quality of life and to offer confidence, especially to these children and young people, deserves our sincere commitment and attention. The petitioners thus reinforce the importance of marketing and access of all patients to Buccolam. The Socialist Party has a history that allows us to affirm the sensitivity of this bench to the feasibility of medicines and their participation, especially those that may make a difference in the life of those who have a chronic and incapacitating disease. I say, therefore, again, that participation is under assessment and we want this process to be as fast as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u568	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u569	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the nearly 13,000 subscribers of this petition, which bring to the discussion a topic that we have already discussed and which is of the greatest relevance: access, or lack of it, to medicines that may make the difference in the quality of life of sick people. This petition calls for the marketing and sharing of a drug for epilepsy, a disease that is estimated to affect one in every 200 people in Portugal. Are there any medications for epilepsy in our country? Of course I do. The medicine on which this petition affects is already marketed? Also yes, but it should be noted that this petition passed from the previous legislation and that, at the date of entry, the medicine was not yet available. So, what's the problem? Of course, this medicine, in its oral solution version, remains unshared and its price is too high for most people. Therefore, yes, your marketing is authorised, yes, the medicine is available, but in practice, access is still restricted to the vast majority of patients. Then we have the eternal problem of the excessive delays of Infarmed in its assessments and negotiations. We have talked here several times about numerous medicines and the most varied pathologies, but what is certain is that, for further explanations that Infarmed gives, the scenario does not change. There are many medicines approved by the European Medicines Agency, which are shared in various European countries, but which do not reach Portugal or, if they arrive, take too long to be shared. And all this, because Infarmed is too late for negotiations with industry. So I repeat what we have already said: this is to condition the right of access of patients to improve their quality of life, and this is not admissible. Infarmed always responds that we have high levels of quality and that Portugal is in the group of countries with better drug access indicators. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and ladies and gentlemen. PS Members! — where there are people who, because of incomprehensible delays in the state, cannot access what better science gives us or cannot bear the cost of that science, no, we do not have quality; no, we do not have access.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u570	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u571	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter is too serious to be dealt with lightly or with propaganda. Today, we're talking about a drug for epilepsy, a few days ago, we talked about a medicine for breast cancer, before, another medicine for cystic fibrosis, and before that, another medicine for spinal muscle atrophy. Unfortunately, the examples continue to happen. In the Liberal Initiative, we do not accept this lack of access to health and total disrespect for the possibility of a better quality of life for patients and their families. The Government cannot continue with this inertia and insist on such social insensitivity. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u572	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pedro Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u573	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the Health Committee of this House, this Parliament, we have received numerous petitions with a similar content to this one presented to us today. However, when thousands of Portuguese people in Portugal need to sign a petition to ask for access to a basic medication to control a neurological disease as important as epilepsy, that is where we should apologize to the country. It means, then, that the State is closing its eyes on the Portuguese and their health problems. Epilepsy is a serious neurological disease of the most common. In Portugal it reaches up to 70,000 people and their families. One in 100 children suffers from epilepsy and many have episodes of epilepsy several times a week. Now, currently in Portugal, and in the case of a seizure, the shared medication available in SOS is the rectal diazepam, which is often exhausted – is another drama of the inavailability of medicines in Portugal. But first, and as the petitioners tell us, the administration by rectal, from the younger ages, brings into question human dignity and also has side effects, such as somnolence and prostration, among others. Let's imagine, Mrs. Members, send your son or a teenage daughter to school and know that if there is an epileptic crisis, a teacher or an operational assistant will have to take your son or daughter off and administer a retaliation medication to control this seizure. Imagine, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in your work you have to inform your colleagues of this need, if you yourself are. Members have a convulsive crisis. Now, midazolam, in this case in the form of a medicinal product Buccolam, is a drug for oral absorption in SOS, simple, effective and without the side effects of diazepam. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for people with epilepsy, « time is brain». The less time to delay a crisis, the less likely there is such brain damage that can lead to the state of epilepsy and midazolam has this capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u574	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u575	Midazolam obtained its authorisation in 2011, but only in 2021 it was marketed and today it can be found in the pharmacy with a price of close to 100 € for every four doses. For all this, and because we know that petitions are not voted on in this Chamber, the Arrival submitted draft resolution No 357 / XV / 1. to recommend to the Government the participation of the medicinal product midazolam, so that it be voted and that it be possible to adopt this resolution as of today. However, the bench of the Liberal Initiative, in an absolutely irresponsible and inhumane attitude, was the only party that prevented the arrival here from bringing its draft resolution, to be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u576	Uh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u577	That is, no political force has accompanied this petition with a legislative initiative, as did the Arrival, and the Liberal Initiative, purely political bias, blocked our draft resolution. Mrs. Petitioners, ladies and gentlemen. Subscribers, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on my behalf and as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, I apologize to you for the attitude of my fellow Members, a shameful attitude. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] I am sorry, because this petition and the participation of this medicine are not political issues, it is the duty of the Assembly of the Republic to the Portuguese citizens, to the epileptic patients and their families. The families of these patients will go to Spain to seek midazolam for too long, because participation has not yet been attributed and it remains inaccessible, and this medicine is the only way the parents send their children to school and at least have some quietness. Therefore, Mr President, I inform you that on 13 February next we will celebrate the International Day of Epilepsy and, being a Monday, we look forward to the possibility that the Assembly of the Republic can schedule our draft resolution, so that all together, as Portuguese Members, we can give a present to all people with epilepsy in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u578	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u579	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u580	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u581	Please ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u582	Mr President, Mr President, he is the guarantor of the rules governing the operation of this House, especially at the Conference of Leaders. Therefore, my request is to remind Mr Pedro Frazão, as well as the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, which are the rules of this House, especially the most predictable ones, in particular the sequestration of petitions. This is because only after the Conference of Leaders this week is that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has called on all other parliamentary groups to carry out two petitions — this and the other. So our question has nothing to do with the problem we are dealing with today, it has to do with the ongoing attempt to break the rules, especially those that are most predictable in this House. When we go to a Conference of Leaders, we know what petitions will be scheduled and we must submit our projects before, not after, just so we can come here to say that we are good workers and good boys and that we present a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u583	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u584	Mr Pedro Pinto, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u585	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u586	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u587	Mr President, as you know, it is at the Leader Conferences, as my colleague on the Liberal Initiative's bench said, that all proposals are scheduled. It is true, but we all also know that all political parties have done what they did, that it was to ask all parliamentary leaders whether there was a problem of this project entering or not. And what happened was that the Liberal Initiative said it couldn't get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u588	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u589	But this is a treatment of cordiality and there has always been this cordiality among all parliamentary groups. The Liberal Initiative decided on that day not to accept. We can agree or not, but we're here to comply with the rules. Now, what is true is that the draft resolution has entered, we ask to be dragged with this petition and, due to the Liberal Initiative, this did not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u590	It was the only group I didn't want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u591	The rules for scheduling petitions are very simple: we have always available the list of petitions that we still need to appreciate in plenary and the only criterion we follow to schedule is the criterion of chronological precedence. Therefore, everyone knows that petitions that have entered first are scheduled and we all also know that the rules for the presentation of draft laws or draft resolutions that can be discussed together with the petitions have exactly the same feature, in a time frame that needs to be fulfilled. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are sometimes surrounded by the consensus of the whole House. When it doesn't occur, they can't be surrounded. There's the explanation. So you will speak, in the use of your right to represent the Free, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u592	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners, the mothers of young people with epilepsy, and the more than 12,000 people who accompanied them. The example of solidarity, mutual help and civicism is the best country has to give, is the best that we, as a society, can bind our children. This medicine is already marketed, but it is very expensive. It is combined with all the aspects already mentioned here, namely, in the case of a disease such as epilepsy, the high prevalence of sequelae and risks that occur during the seizures, which may even lead to death, the fact that, now, with a very expensive and unparticipated drug, there is a social inequality, which is unacceptable, among those who may have the purchasing capacity to reach the drug and those who do not have it. Therefore, since the process that can lead to the participation of this medicine is already under consideration, the guarantee that we can give petitioners and petitioners is that this House is very attentive, that the Free will will also be very attentive, that we hope that the Government will, as quickly as possible, reach the end of this process and that our citizens with epilepsy may finally have, with participation, access to this medicine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u593	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u594	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the nearly 13,000 petitioners who have asked the Assembly of the Republic — and not only other sovereignty agencies — for the marketing and sharing of oral midazolam. It should be made clear that many times they come to the Assembly of the Republic with requests, more or less, in the same sense, often with the request for access to medication still at an underdeveloped stage, in a phase of experimental studies in which scientific evidence is not yet known. We should not mix everything, because in fact we are talking about therapy, a medicine that is well known and whose effects are beneficial to health, in this case, in the use of seizures. Midazolam is a medicine that has long been used, either intravenously or orally, with tablets, and what is at stake here is precisely the route of administration. What makes all the difference, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is oral—it is not oral, as has already been said, it is oral, it is between the mouth and the gum — to allow rapid absorption into the mucosa of the mouth and to perform almost as if it were an intravenous injection. The effect is virtually immediate and controls a convulsive crisis. Whoever has seen this in an adult knows how impression and how sensitive it is. Imagine, then, parents and mothers witnessing a situation of seizure in a child—it is important to have the best answer at hand. So far, the answer has been with the rectal diazepam, but the oral midazolam makes all the difference and today, in this House, we realize that no one disagrees with this. So, for all the other situations that we have already spoken about to be understood as well, what is it important to clarify? It should be clarified that the application for authorisation for the placing of this medicinal product on the market is made on the initiative of the pharmaceutical industry. There is not one medicine that is marketed in Portugal — and this is one of the requests made by the petitioners — in which it is the Ministry of Health, which is Portugal to want ; it is the pharmaceutical industry that asks for this authorization. This authorization has already been requested, although there has been — and has already been clarified — many doubts and complexity on the part of the industry, but there is also another situation which needs to be clarified and which has to do with sharing, which is also the responsibility of the company. This request has already been made and it is at this point that it is also important to reflect. This request is made to the Ministry of Health with the evaluation made by Infarmed. What does this assessment affect? It affects pharmaceuticals, in the matter of treating the disease, which it treats; it affects the clinic, that is, the medicine is compared to other medicines that already exist; and it affects the economic issue—and here I want to make it clear that it is important to guarantee this medicine, but it is also important that Portugal, our country, is not a hostage to the pharmaceutical industry. That is why it is important that this negotiating process be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u595	Mr. João Dias, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u596	I will finish, Mr. President. Currently, this medicine — three injections — costs 93, 73 €. It is possible to have participation, but this negotiation process can only be done because, often, some medicines that are mentioned in this House cost €93 000 and not €93, and to pay those €93 000 to the pharmaceutical industry, then there is no money to pay the midazolam. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u597	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the fourth and final point on our agenda today, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 321 / XIV / 3. a ( Independent Union of Teachers and Educators ) — Time of service equal, equal situation and equal step, together with Bill No. 478 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Prohibition of discrimination between teachers, as a result of changes to the Statute of the Teacher Career for Career Repositioning with Remuneration, in general, and Resolution Projects Nos 327 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enforce the right of all teachers to placement on the pay scale corresponding to the service time effectively provided, 353 / XV / 1. a ( L) — By binding, accounting of the teaching service time and end of the blockade in career progression and 354 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promote public school and respect for teachers' rights. To submit Bill No. 478 / XV / 1. Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u598	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I already said Gramsci, « do not take quarters, take schools, universities, churches. They do not attack armored but rather ideas». Unfortunately, this happened in Portugal. The schools, universities and churches were taken,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u599	That's good! After all, it was Mr Mithá Ribeiro who wrote the speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u600	...and the Socialist Party went even further, succeeding in placing teachers against teachers. It all started in 2005, with the government of José Socrates and Antonio Costa, with the persecution of teachers and the division of career into two categories: teacher holder and non-titler. Then the troika arrived and, with her, what we all know. At present, this government and its majority have managed to unite the entire educational community against the true Minister of Education Fernando Medina, who sends Minister João Costa to a mere CEO of education, in a kind of replica of the solution created by Antonio Costa to try to solve health problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portaria No 119 / 2018 came to regulate the replacement of wages and partial defrosting of the careers of teachers of basic and secondary education. Part of the teachers with service time prior to 2011 was exceeded in the career position in relation to teachers who entered from 2011, thus harming teachers with more time of service. Because this is the case, Ordinance No. 119 / 2018 is incompatible with the application of justice, for objective and subjective reasons. The objective criterion of the time of service provided by the teachers, measured in precise numbers of days, has ceased to be reliable and the situation feeds a subjective sense of injustice in the relationship between teachers, within public schools. Persisting in this injustice is not tolerable and the answers are obvious: correcting the law and compensating the injured, which is what arrives requires the socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u601	That's not good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u602	But the underlying problem will persist and, therefore, the Arrival has already argued in Parliament that the profession of teacher is essentially collegial and based on empathy and collaboration between peers, in a logic of passing the testimony, of knowledge among generations of teachers. Only in this way will the school environments be of knowledge, respect, tranquility and stability. It is important to pay attention to Decree-Law No 15/2007, which replaced the old logic of a school and provenly functional teaching career, in which the essential criterion of regulation was the time of service, by a competitive logic that extended the already conflicting environment to teachers in schools, among teachers and students.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u603	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u604	As the schools are, 15 years have come to prove that the abstract merit criteria, in concrete, have translated into demotivation, conflicts, sympathy and dysfunction of the teaching career. The reasons are very simple. The first is that it will always be dysfunctional to turn off the quantified merit of the teachers' work from the corresponding quantified merit of the students' school results. The second reason is that these 15 years allow you to compare two models: one before 2017 and the other after 2017. The point of convergence between one thing and another is the national examinations. Who differentiates the criteria for teachers from the criteria for students makes the school dysfunctional. This is the result of decades of political control of education by PS, PCP and Left Block. The conclusions are obvious: the closer the teaching career of collegiality is the better cooperation among teachers, the better the synergies of knowledge, the better the daily environment in schools. Insisting on a competitive logic and quotas and promotions on the grounds of their merit will only increase conflicts and solidarity. Those parties who are the owners of this discussion and in it want to take advantage of the teachers' struggle give the government a hand because they only present draft resolutions that know how to be inconsequential. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] The lead of our bill means only that the PS does not want to solve the problem of teachers and that it wants to continue to divide the entire educational community to reign. [[Let's give him a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u605	To present draft resolution No 327 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u606	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners of Petition No. 321 / XIV / 3. the, whose schedule in this plenary drags the draft resolution of the PCP on the adoption of measures to realize the right of all teachers to the placement on the pay scale corresponding to the service time effectively provided. The scheduling and discussion of this topic coincide with a period of intensification of teachers' struggle for the guarantee of essential rights, fair remuneration and, above all, the dignity of the teaching role and career. These are objectives that the CFP accompanies and supports, in addition, by presenting successive proposals for the resolution of multiple problems affecting these and other groups of educational professionals and which undermine the quality of public school — proposals to which the majority of PSs, with greater or less complicity of the right, has opposed an unacceptable barrier. What is at stake at this point is the correction of the consequences of the freezing, in particular, of the teaching career imposed by the PSD / CDS government, which reached the teachers who entered between 2011 and 2017, which was corrected by Portaria No 119 / 2018. The effects of that door should, however, have covered all teachers who were not on the scale corresponding to the service time effectively provided. However, it has happened that many teachers, with more years of service, have been overcome by colleagues with shorter careers, thus generating a situation of deep injustice. It is therefore essential that all service time effectively be counted for the purposes of career entry and progression, and that all measures should be required for the fair positioning of teachers on the scales and in the remuneration positions corresponding to that time of service. The urgent correction of this situation is inseparable from a set of measures that are also imposed and that the teachers' unions rightly demand, among which we highlight the binding of thousands of teachers hired for more than three years and in precarious circumstances; the change of the work standard, to ensure effective linkage after three years of service; the end of evaluation quotas and vacancies in the fifth and seventh stages; the award of annual competitions for the placement of teachers; the reduction of the size of the pedagogical frameworks; measures to support the teachers displaced; the consideration of 30 days for the purposes of access to social benefits, in the case of teachers engaged with incomplete schedules; the correction of the profound injustices against teachers on the basis of mobility by disease; and, among other things, the negotiation of a specific pension scheme for teachers who also promote the rejuvenation of the class. I'm joining you, Mrs. Members, what is being discussed today is a measure that will greatly contribute to doing justice to the teachers affected, to make the teaching career more attractive and to value the public school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u607	To present the Resolution Project No 353 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u608	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Petitioners and Petitioners : On behalf of the Free House, I would like to begin by congratulating the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators ( SIPE ) on the presentation of this petition, which, although it is already the year 2021, deals with problems which are unfortunately not yet resolved; and which is also an opportunity for, for the third time on this day when we discuss education, the Livre presents a draft resolution that returns to some old proposals of our party, by binding, by accounting for the time of teaching service and by the end of the blockade on career progression. Today, twice again, one with the Government and the Minister of Education, but also by interpelting the PS in political declarations, was an opportunity to recall a simple principle, which is impossible to value the vocations of future teachers—which are probably the rarest resource for our future—which will not be carried out because these young people see on television what happens with the current teachers and feel that it is not a career they want to invest in, unfortunately. Unfortunately! The best way to counter this effect of disincentive is to dignify the careers of the teachers present. Therefore, our present and future are united in a challenge that we must be able to overcome now. We have not had any concrete answers, not until or until this negotiation is going to take place, which is under way — we respect that — but we have not had any concrete answers to the need for a general state of education. And now is also the time to present our answers: on the one hand, the immediate linkage of all teachers and educators with three or more years of service; on the other hand, access to 5. a is 7. the steps; and thirdly, it is often said that in the legislature that lasted from 2015 to 2019 there were no parties that had in their program counting all the time for career progression,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u609	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u610	... but the Free had it and has it in its program. The Free will has never ceased to defend this principle and will continue to do so, in this Parliament, until this old claim of 2021, which continues to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u611	To intervene and present the Resolution Project No 354 / XV / 1. the, on behalf of the Left Block, has the word Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u612	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would first of all like to congratulate the IPAE, Professor Júlia Azevedo and the other teachers who are part of the delegation who is present and, in the presence of these teachers, to greet and greet all the teachers who have made strikes today and who have been making strikes, in struggle for their rights and for the future of the public school. Once again, we are discussing the conditions for public school to have a future, the conditions by which teachers claim, for a more dignified career. in this particular case, the EPC tells us that, as a result of various transitional regimes and changes to the Statute of the Teaching Career, made without any other intention than that of the financial penalty of teachers, today we have teachers whose positioning does not correspond to the years of service they have in their career. This is a fact! This is not a matter of judgment or political appreciation, it is a fact. The various changes that have been made over time, with freezings, career changes, career revisions, made there an injustice in the position of teachers and today we come to the conclusion that this will be very difficult to resolve without recovering as long as it has been lost, all the time it has been frozen, for whom a demand for justice is needed. I would like to talk a little bit about this demand for justice, because if teachers today demand professional graduation as a single criterion of placement, they value this professional qualification and understand it as the most transparent criterion possible—saying that in negotiations they reject anyone who approaches skills profiles that bring small authoritarianisms, which brings little transparency, which brings the mechanism and the system of casting into school and the choice of teachers—it is because professional graduation values what is right, it values the experience of teachers accumulated over the years, within the classroom, with their pedagogical and scientific training. That is why the criterion of professional graduation is so important. to value it, we also value the quality of teachers in public school, and that is why, when they say that they refuse the profile and the intermunicipal council of directors, teachers are saying that they want transparency and that they want the recognized quality within public school. Therefore, when we look at the mobilization of teachers we have to realize that their frustration is also linked with the fact that professional graduation is not being respected today, the time of service is not being respected in the pay position, which is the recognition of a career, which is the recognition of expression and is the wage translation and the translation of merit, experience and all the work that has been done, of all the effort carried out in a profession, throughout a lifetime—is its translation into career and professional recognition. It is not surprising, therefore, that teachers are frustrated when, before their work, they deserve an excellent or very good one and then this evaluation is withdrawn from them administratively, in the secretariat, simply because they do not fit the quotas. Teachers say: "All right, what would it be if we applied the same method to students? Do not keep on seeking. ” What if a teacher said "we only have five scores of 18 values to assign, even if all the students in the class are students of excellence"? The result would be an enormous frustration on the part of the students, who had worked and had not been able to get there because they did not fit in the quota. This is the frustration that the country has to understand, which does not depend on a small advance, a small retreat. These are years of accumulated frustrations, of perceived injustices that get worse, as is natural. Whenever life out here gets worse, life inside the classroom gets worse. And who has to deal with this worsening are the teachers, who have their increasingly less valued career to deal with all these problems. This claim that is made about teachers' career is fair. We bring a draft resolution that proposes the recovery of service time, which proposes the correction of injustices in positioning; it proposes many changes, which we have already brought here several times, on which we have already talked so many times and that teachers know, in particular, the respect for professional graduation, a specific retirement regime and improvements within the legal limits of the hours of the teachers' work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u613	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u614	I shall finish, Mr President, just saying that I am not going to comment on the remaining projects. The teachers have read to us, they know what they are worth, and we also know that what is worth right now is the teacher's struggle. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u615	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Barroso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u616	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I comply with the first petitioners of the petition we are debating today, the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, to whom we greet. Obviously, in your presence we are also complimenting the 8769 petitioners of the petition entitled « Equal service time, equal situation, equal step». Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April, approved the Statute of the Teaching Career of Teachers and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, regulating the employment relationship of these professionals. over the last few years, several have been the reasons for interpretation or framework that have resulted in legal standards that, in their application, are not always consistent with the justice advocated by the Statute of the Teaching Career. Until 2011 there were 10 steps in the teaching career, corresponding to 1. the step to the teacher with baccalaureate and the 3. the step to the professor's degree. Between 1 January 2011 and 31 January 2017, the freezing of progress in the career of the public service was in force because of exceptional commitments by law of the State budget corresponding to those years, it is recalled years in which the State budget was made viable by the PS, the PCP and the BE. It is recalled that the freezing of service time between 2011 and 2017 was no longer a new measure. This measure had already been adopted in 2005, and had been defrosted between 2008 and 2010. It is also worth remembering, especially to the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, that the freezing of service time was resumed on 1 January 2011 by the Socialist Party, then in the Government. So it was the Socialist Party that frozen, thawed, froze again and frozen the time of service. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u617	Let's hope you can solve it now! [[PSD applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the defrosting of the 2017 careers, it is factual that the publication of Ordinance No 119 / 2018, of 4 May, intended to correct the discrimination resulting from unequal rankings in the teaching career by teachers with the same time of service, but this did not happen. The effect that caused was that teachers who entered the career before January 2011 by those who entered between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2017, repositioned on the basis of their entire time of service, but who in reality had less time of service than those who entered before. These only were considered the time of service that they had at the step / index where they were and not the total time of service. It turns out, however, that the position of teachers does not correspond to the number of years of service that effectively have for the purposes of career, with all the implications that this entails and which translates into an injustice between peers. The successive amendments to the Statute of the Teaching Career have been detrimental to teachers who were already in office before 2011, who sometimes receive according to two salary steps below those of the post-2011 teachers ; and have lost time of service, which was aggravated by the overrun of the post-2011 teachers, who, not requiring the first four years of service, were able to use this time in 4. o or no 6. the steps, ensuring vacancies for progression. Result: we have 50-year-old teachers who stay in 4. the step to win 1200 € / month. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the reality of thousands of teachers, the reality of public school, a school that wants to be fair, which is required to be equal opportunities and respect for others. The petitioners propose the creation of a porta that regulates the repositioning of all the linked teachers before 2011 and between that year and 2017, that is, and I quote, « [... ] in accordance with the current Statute of the Teaching Career, a unique and fair logic for the same career years corresponds to an equal career position, except for the situations that result from the bonus by evaluation of teacher performance or master/doctoral performance. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us ask, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are these petitioners asking for much? The PSD will be careful and will monitor the matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u618	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u619	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners, with emphasis on the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators. This debate is part of a petition that addresses the specific issue relating to the 2018 portfolio, which outlines operational rules for the resumption of progress and promotion of the repositioning of teachers after a period between 2011 and 2017, of the prohibition of remuneration valuations of the Public Administration. Under the heading ‘Equal service time, equal situation and equal step’, the applicant's claim may, in its terms, flout in the rules of progress laid down in the Staff Regulations of the Teaching Career, of which it does not occur that at the same time of service the same maturity shall always and without further delay. It will never be more, however, to appeal to the trendy virtuosity that excesses should be avoided between teachers, provided that they are not justified by uniform, understandable and acceptable criteria. The debate is not limited to this specific issue, because the arrival, with a bill, the PCP, the BE and the Free, with draft resolutions, taking advantage of the opportunity, presented four initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u620	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u621	What these initiatives as a whole do is extend the thematic scope of the discussion, bringing many of the subjects that over the years have led to claims and which, at this time, are still part of the chorus of teachers' protests. We are talking about the question of the recovery of all time of service, the recruitment regime and mobility of teaching staff, with respect to professional graduation, the guarantee of the elimination of surpluses between peers, the linkage of more rapid and systematic hired teachers, a fair and quota-free evaluation system, the elimination of vacancies in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps, the retirement regime, the respect for the legal limits of work — therefore, of almost everything that is part of the teachers' systematic demands. Now, this is the material disaster of this debate, it will be said: over the last seven years, the government has sought to respond to problems that have afflicted teachers and public school for a long time, fighting them, although they have not resolved them in the full extent of their effects and scope. There's work done, there's progress made. For example, the linkage of more than 18,000 teachers, the progression of one or two steps by more than 98% of teachers and the significant increase of teachers in the last few steps, including at the top of the career, of the least restrictive capacity of the train standard. It has not been possible, however, to meet certain demands that are being drawn, especially those that try to combat instability and precariousness in the exercise of teaching function—and we know how this instability is penalizing for teachers, for public school and for the educational system as a whole. What is important to retain, by positive and inspiring, is that political discourse, continuing to affirm the pre-eminence of social valorization of teaching, in tribute to dignity and recognition of public performance in moments of sacrifice, is currently set in the assumption of commitment to find concrete solutions to overcoming problems. Never, as before, has the government expressed its firm intention to act, accepting to face difficulties for so many years without promising unrealities, but linking itself to the demand of the possible. That the problems of teachers should be a national priority no one ever doubts. The way of negotiation is the only way that should be taken by all parties and if, on the table, they began to be the teachers' recruitment and mobility files, it is clear that the protection of education is shown with ideas launched, available for a broader negotiating agenda, including some of the subjects included in these initiatives. It is good that there is effort for healthy and balanced agreements. Not everything can be done by sitting down. The principle of responsibility, from the beginning of the budget, calls us to the world of possible demands and achievements, but the affirmation of the need for systematic and continuous investment calls upon us to exert ourselves and to cast. It is interesting to believe that it is possible to go further. Nothing can replace the greater virtue of negotiation, favouring dialogue with those who choose to be on the side of attainable solutions, without irresponsible promises, but with openness to resolve some matters brought to debate, which will find a way to evolve and advance. It is time for good faith, it is time for transparency and truth, it is time to realize how far it is possible to go, it is time for all parties to contribute to taking advantage of this time. It's time to want and believe. We know we deserve desire and belief. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u622	Give them back the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u623	You have a request for clarification, but you have no time to answer. I assume that the arrival does not abdicate the request for clarification. in this case, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u624	Mr President, Mr Agostinho Santa, I am extremely sorry that you do not have time to answer. I want to congratulate you on the way you talked up there in that rostrum because you really told the truth. It is that this government is trying to solve, try to resolve, try to solve, but the truth is it has not solved anything. That's why teachers are struggling, so teachers are on the street, so schools are closed and that's why students are out of class. That is to say, the Socialist Party and the Minister who was here a short time ago are still doing nothing. That's the great truth. They say it's time, it's time, it's time, but it's time to do it, it's time to give teachers the recovery of service time. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, and as they say it is a national priority, it challenges the Socialist Party to pass this bill tomorrow. It's the challenge I do. If it is a national priority, have courage and pass this bill tomorrow. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u625	It's for now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u626	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u627	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the petitioners and the union, which I welcome and to whom I thank the initiative. I would like to point out that the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators launched this petition in April 2018. We're in 2023 and the union didn't need to change a comma to the document it developed. This means and it is in itself a sign that the government has not moved forward and a sign of the stagnant situation in which we are. We don't have to give any more examples. Indeed, the government's failure has further worsened the situation of teachers and, therefore, we have waves of protests from north to south of the country. There may now be negotiations, talks, but, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is happening here today is an inertia policy, it is the result of inertia policy, it is the result of inaction. The Liberal Initiative has talked about reforms, lack of vision, lack of future. in this case, not to do is an option, which brings obvious costs for teachers and, obviously, for students. The government that has been in government in recent years is unable to give the country a future, but also teachers; it is unable to give stability to the country and is unable to give stability to teachers. It is unable to give the country a future and it is unable to give our young people a future. Seven years ago, the Socialist Government has been in office and, instead of giving priority to action, it leaves nothing but rupture. The Minister of Education met with some unions yesterday, saying that he is available to address some issues under the motto « Approximate, fix and link ». It seems more than it says: "Trap, make-up and divert the attention of teachers for a few more years, calming the souls of an exhausted and worn-out class. They're more ideas. We still hear this expression here today, « ideas launched». No, we need action, not any more ideas. The government has postponed this problem so much that it has managed to turn the profession of teacher into a profession of great physical and psychological wear. The one who should be one of the most noble professions is now one of the professions for which it is most difficult to attract professionals. We are facing a snowball so big that it is increasingly difficult to stop it. That's why we need to change the rules of the game. We are here, systematically, with topical changes, which have their merits, obviously, but there has to be more than that. I am saying again: yes, the Liberal Initiative continues to defend that we have to make reforms. With the current design of the Statute of the Teaching Career, it is quite complicated, if not impossible, to avoid discrimination between teachers in the repositioning of careers. There will always be impaired teachers, if not for the years of service, by the passing of hours; if not by the times, it will be by distances; by the restrictions on binding; by the excess of bureaucracy. It's like that old top of the scarf on the sheet. What does the government want at the end of history? Are the Portuguese getting used to it? On this path, we are far from achieving a quality education for all. Do you want us to get used to facilitation and lack of evaluation, which harms the whole system and even more children from less-developed socio-economic environments? Let's get used to the bureaucrats? More serious, do we get used to a system that does not prevent the reproduction of social inequalities? Or do we get used to the exhausting situation of teachers and their shortage? Yeah, we don't get used to it, we don't resign. What we used to, yes, was the lack of solutions from this government. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-19.u628	So we conclude our agenda. Tomorrow, the plenary session has several points. In the first point, we will appreciate Law Proposal No 46 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the National Housing Program for the period 2022 - 2026 and the projects that come up with it, i.e. the Bills No. 470 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Creates a programme of support for young people to purchase their own and permanent housing, 471 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Creates the housing cooperative support programme, 472 / XV / 1. a (L) — Create the home aid program, in support of the purchase of the first house, 473 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Increases the monthly grant period and the maximum support period of the Porta 65 - Rent by Youth and 474 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Change the Housing Bases Act, with a view to the creation of municipal housing support offices. In the second point, we will analyze the Resolution Project No 274 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government ensure support for all families, corresponding to 40 % of the increase in the credit-individual benefit caused by the rise in the Euribor rate, together with Bill No 460 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a transitional scheme for the exemption from the execution of immovable property for the satisfaction of the real guarantee of mortgage claims. In the third point, the debate comes on Bill No. 233 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce banking commissions and extend access conditions and the scope of the bank service account, in conjunction with Bills Nos 465 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ends the collection of abusive banking fees to all credit holders by making the first amendment to Law No 57 / 2020 of 28 August, 466 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ends the limits of transfers by homebanking and payment applications operated by third parties under bank minimum service accounts by amending Decree-Law No 27 - C / 200 of 10 March, 468 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 in order to reduce the costs associated with banking services, 475 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends to all credit contracts the prohibition on fees charged under Law No 57 / 2020 of 23 June ( first amendment to Law No 57 / 2020 of 23 June ), 476 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthened and extended the prohibition of commissions, expenses or other charges charged by credit institutions ( amendment to Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July ), 477 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Freeze banking commissions in 2023 and 479 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services. Finally, we shall have a vote. The session is closed. See you tomorrow. [[It was 20 hours and 11 minutes.]]
