ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 11 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Let us begin the first item on our agenda, with the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the unpromulgated return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 103 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Engineers. I shall then read: « Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. I am addressing you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 103 / XV. 2. Without prejudice to the fulfilment of the obligations of the Portuguese State before the European Union, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which are not concerned, and taking into account the difficulties inherent in the legislative process which led to the adoption of this Decree, marked by both Members in their explanations of vote and by the Professional Orders consulted, it is important to consider the specific issues which, in relation to the Decree under review, justify its return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation. 3. In the case of Decree No 103 / XV, the manner in which the acts of engineering and their graduation are treated and the definition of competences that appear to result from the Statute is contrary to the public interest and does not ensure the safety of persons and goods, nor the ( necessary) confidence in the acts of engineering of duly qualified professionals. 4. It is not enough to be licensed in engineering to be able to take the technical direction of a more complex work, so the graduation of engineering acts, according to professional experience, is fundamental to the trust of the recipients of engineering services. 5. However, the Order of Engineers, which holds powers of public authority, which can never be used to restrict competition or access to professions, is particularly well placed to regulate these matters. However, the Decree provides for subsequent regulation the matters of the definition of acts of engineering and their graduation, the organization in specialties and the form of award of the title of specialist, providing for approval by the Government. 6. This solution seems to set up an excessive introduction of guardianship in the autonomy of the Orders and be less compatible with the public interest, given that the Order is technically prepared to define in good time the acts of engineering that can be practiced. Until the evolution of science and knowledge recommend that the engineering acts are not defined in law in a static manner, taking into account the participation of engineers in various areas of activity, ranging from the development of infrastructure and industrial to the revitalization of heritage and territory, through the transformation of urban spaces and contributing to the digital transformation, the interoperability of information networks and cybersecurity, that is, contributing decisively to innovation, that is, generating economic growth. 7. in this regard, I decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, Decree No 103 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Engineers. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. “ Mrs. Members, we now turn to point two of our agenda, with the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 112 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Architects, which is as follows: « Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. I am addressing you in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 112 / XV. 2. Without prejudice to the fulfilment of the obligations of the Portuguese State before the European Union, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which are not concerned, and taking into account the difficulties inherent in the legislative process which led to the adoption of this Decree, marked by both Members in their explanations of vote and by the Professional Orders consulted, it is important to consider the specific issues which, in relation to the Decree under review, justify its return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation. 3. Indeed, in the case of Decree No 112 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Architects, the conjugated regime of the acts of the profession and of the acts shared with other professions generates ambiguities and is not in line with the professional practice of architecture. 4. In fact, the architects' own acts are indistinctly referred to as acts, activities and competences, leaving doubts as to whether the acts of the profession (the elaboration and appraisal of projects, studies and architectural plans) may be practiced by people without prior professional training and who are not subject to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Order. 5. More serious, some of the standards seem to contradict the latest public policies that value architectural practice as a transformer of public heritage and capable of meeting the growing needs of our society. 6. In the case of the acts shared by the architects, there seems to be a dependence on the acts itself reserved, restricting the ability of the architects to intervene. For example, the activity of supervision or direction of work, as an act shared with engineers and technical engineers, cannot be reduced to the preparation of studies, projects and architectural plans, as seems to result from the Decree. 7. Moreover, in a context that is intended to simplify construction licensing, it is even more relevant to ensure the responsibility of project authors, given that preventive monitoring mechanisms are intended to be removed, but without compromising the safety, functionality and sustainability of constructions. 8. Thus irrespective of the intention already assumed by the legislator to revisit the Statutes of the Professional Orders, it is understood that in the case of the Statute of the Order of Architects, a promulgation would be harmful to the public interest and even have contrary effects to those intended for this reform. 9. in this regard, I decided to return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 136. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, Decree No 112 / XV — Amendment to the Statute of the Order of Architects. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. “ Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to point three of our agenda, which consists of the urgent debate required by the Liberal Initiative, on « Education : the most abandoned generation ever. » To open the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and, in particular, Minister of Education : The results of the PISA 2022 (International Student Assessment Programme), known at the end of last week, are bad news for Portugal, but they are not at all a surprise. As is known, this evaluation instrument applies to students aged 15 years, which means that these evaluated students have already made a significant part of their school journey under the guidance of the governments of Antonio Costa and, in particular, of this Minister of Education, João Costa, who was previously also Secretary of State. The Minister of Education said that «is the PISA of the pandemic ». Nothing more wrong; this is actually the PS PISA, the PISA of Antonio Costa and the PISA of João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u4	But what are these results, then? The worst results have been since 2006. We can say, therefore, that there was a backwardness of about 15 years in this evaluation instrument. These are results that tell us worrying things about student learning: we have 30% of students who have not reached a sufficient level for full citizenship in terms of mathematics; we have 20% in other reading and science skills; and we have 41% that have had an unsatisfactory result to at least one of the skills. What, then, are the reasons for these results? The explanation will be the pandemic, as Minister João Costa has said? The answer is, of course, not; and not for three fundamental reasons: first, it is the OECD itself ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) that, on the overall results, it states that they are not due only to the pandemic; second, the results in Portugal fell more than in the OECD average; third, the truth is that the deterioration of the results had already occurred before this instrument PISA 2022, as it had already occurred in the previous PISA, in the PIRLS (Progress in International Reading Literacy Study) and in TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study ). So what we have is to leave aside the apology of bad payers, who are always common in this matter, and to clear up the responsibilities of this Minister of Education and this government. I am going to list just a few of these responsibilities: firstly, and then, the decision to eliminate external, rigorous and consequent evaluation, which contains for note, at various times the school course; secondly, the very long closing period of schools during the political decision pandemic, and I remember that schools have opened at the same time as the shopping centres, giving good notice of what the priorities of this government are; thirdly, the poor implementation of recovery plans with unclear priorities, insufficient allocation of resources, excessive number of actions and absence of targets and indicators for monitoring and evaluation purposes — is the Court of Auditors that says so; fourthly, there is the existence of tens of thousands of students without a teacher at least one discipline in successive academic years — namely, even now that we are talking about 30,000 students without a teacher at least one discipline; and fourthly, there is the continuing conflict between teachers and the Ministry of Education, which we are now experiencing, that conflict. The Minister of Education opted for a form of Marxism, which is the Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxian Marxianism: he had very clear principles, but quickly excluded them when it was necessary to support Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u6	And finally, the inability of the holders of the education folder to assume their responsibilities and to catch up on the path. I'll just remember, ladies. Members, four or five statements by holders of the education folder of the governments of António Costa on the unsatisfactory results that were obtained over time: when the 2018 PISA came out, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues held the PSD / CDS government responsible for these results; when the 2019 TIMSS, the State Secretary of then, João Costa, responsible Nuno Crato for the results; when the PIRLS 2021 left, Minister João Costa has already held the digitalization of the evidence; and when the 2022 PISA came out, here we have João Costa saying that the guilt is the pandemic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the results of the PISA are the direct responsibility of the PS governments and reveal that the 15-year-old students who made them are the most abandoned generation ever. Because of the responsibility of the PS, this is the generation without teachers; without regular and credible evaluation tools that allow you to have information on the evolution of learning; without present classes for long periods, by political decision; without effective recovery plans; and without the ability of rulers to recognize the mistakes they have made. From March 10 it is fundamental to profoundly change this state of affairs. Everything needs to be done to recover lost time for this generation. We must ensure that new generations do not turn themselves into the disaster of socialist governance. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u7	The honourable Member has a request for clarification... I see that Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u8	I am sorry, Mr President, I think that — but I may be wrong — there were two speeches the other day in the debate. Not being like this right now, I apologize for my confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u9	Mr President, in the case of an urgent debate there is only the opening intervention by the requesting party of that debate, and therefore it makes sense that the requests for clarification are immediately following that intervention. Therefore, to make a request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u10	Mr. President of some benches,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u11	And it's a short time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u12	...Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rocha, the idea of school has failed; the idea of left school has failed and that is what we together have to face in the elections on 10 March. I address the Liberal Initiative, but also the PSD, with some questions: will they draw red lines with those who reject the Ministry of Education, which is a financial disaster, that everything drags with it the careers and wages of teachers to public school? If so, IL and PSD are not distinguished from PS, PCP and Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u13	Are you going to draw red lines with those who require national exams at the end of the cycle, with effective consequences in the transition and disapproval of students? If so, IL and PSD are not distinguished from PS, PCP and Left Block. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Will they draw red lines with the only political force that will never accept the subjugation of teachers to the dictatorship of bureaucracy and left-wing facilitation? If so, IL and PSD are not distinguished from PS, PCP and Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u15	Will they draw red lines with the only political force that links violence against women to indiscipline in the privacy of the classroom, as well as equate the impact of indiscipline in teaching with the impact of corruption on the economy? Is that what you want? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u16	On March 10, IL and PSD no longer have much choice. Your time has run out along this legislature. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u17	Or they sink into trying to save the school model of socialists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u19	...or support the Party's deeply reformist project, which the Portuguese, fortunately, already know. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u20	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u21	Mr President, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, the vision of the Liberal Initiative for subjects and education issues is a vision of the future and never to return to the past. [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] The past was long and we've had enough of it. What the Liberal Initiative really wants is a school for the future. I see the vision of the Liberal Initiative in this area, since it is very simple. To begin with, with regard to the emergency situation we live in, that these results well attest, we believe in the need for rigorous evaluation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u22	But are there red lines or aren't there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u23	... externally possible, so that students and families know what the students are doing. We also support the question of the immediate recovery of learning, with a clear and serious investment and with determined objectives, not what happened in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u24	You have to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u25	And we also support the question of the autonomy of schools, in terms of recruitment of curricular content, because it is close to the school community that problems are solved rather than from Lisbon, in a ministry, as João Costa did over eight years. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u26	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I would first like to thank the Liberal Initiative for the opportunity to speak again about school, public school and, above all, about students. It is official, it is not worth denying: the failure of the education policy of the PS now has international expression, as the PSD had come to denounce, and it is called PISA. It's nothing new to anyone. Other external evaluation instruments, as has been said — PIRLS and TIMSS — already indicated failures in the performance of students. Only the report of IAVE ( Institute of Educational Assessment, I.P. ) I was saying that students learned more at home than at school. What does the Minister now have to say about this data? You will naturally apologize to the pandemic, as you have already done, saying that the OECD average has come down, but what is the fact is that we are going down more. The OECD average dropped because several low-performance countries came in, which brings down the OECD average. But we are going down in all areas, Minister. How do you explain this? We already know you don't know, because you've already put it forward for social communication. By 2015, with the PSD in government, the results of the PISA of Portuguese students have always improved in each edition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u28	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u29	In 2018, with management—to whom we also thank these results—we saw a significant decrease in the performance of students. The educational policies adopted, the rigour, were neither innocent nor alien to these results that we are discussing today. It has always been lost, Mr Minister, and Mr Minister always devalues this issue. Today is undeniable: there is a clear negative trend in performance, which is consistent, and is notified in international tests since 2015. A real tramp. At the PIRLS there was another fall. And the same didn't happen in the World Bank study because, as you know, we couldn't participate in it. The Portuguese students lost knowledge corresponding to one year of schooling compared to PISA 2018. The data now known are a catastrophe and therefore the PS has deteriorated, as is known, the public school: it ended with social mobility, ended with the class of teachers and with the future of students. The PS ended with hope in public school, Minister, as the engine of dreams for the most disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u31	You've been dream breakers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u32	The PS is responsible for a generational backwardness that will be expensive to the country and our young people. He promoted private schools over the past eight years, left the schools at risk that would replace the state every day and ignored the inclusive school. The PS governments are responsible for the tragic period of education in Portugal. Mr Minister, "total irresponsibility" will be your fault. It takes 15 years in the history of PISA to have the same results, and responsibility is entirely yours and the PS. The Court of Auditors pulled the School Plan + and what is Mr. Minister of Education doing? It withdraws 3300 hourly credits for learning, because Europe has closed the tap. [[PSD applause.]] He said in the media, without any problem, that no more teachers were needed. Mr. Minister, there's the result. Why didn't you hear the PSD? Why have you continued to deny reality over the last few years? It was in the eyes of everyone and, even in the 2024 Budget, they did not approve any PSD proposal on education. Management and PS are therefore the only ones responsible for the current situation. Minister, I don't ask you what you're going to do now to recover the learning because you don't know. If I had known, we hadn't reached this state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u33	I didn't have to be here today. [[PSD applause.]] If Mr. Minister knew what to do, he wasn't sitting there today. Therefore, Mr. Minister has this stain in his resume, Mr. Minister has compromised the teachers. How many times have you publicly stated to 10 million Portuguese that the recovery of service time was not on the table? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u35	For months and months, teachers fought very well for their rights. Graves, moreover, that Mr Minister came to say that they were illegal, only to then all the courts disregard him and deny him. Schools closed every year; 100 000 students, at the beginning of the school year, without teachers—and right now there are 32 000 students without teachers. And you have the awake to say that now, after all, is it possible to recover the time of service? Oh, my God! Yes, you say that. What are you doing here, Minister? How does it justify teachers, parents, students who have seen their performance castrated and had learning losses, that it is now possible to have teachers and pay for career progression and what they have done?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u37	Who froze her? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u38	How is it that the Minister and the PS candidates are now disarraying to say that they even agree with the spirit of the PSD proposal when they have rejected everything in the State budget a few days ago? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u39	It's an electionist doll! We are before a contortionist minister! The PS is a contortionist game! Now you want to fool the teachers just because Antonio Costa is on his way out? [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Have you come to say so yet? It is absolutely unacceptable. Mr. Minister has been playing with the Portuguese, with our future, and now you want to fool the teachers again? No, Mr. Minister. In September, the PSD, long before dreaming that Mr. Prime Minister was going to resign, presented a proposal to the teachers, a serious proposal to recover time of service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u40	Exactly! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u41	And that's what's gonna happen, because the Portuguese know it's the PSD that's going to make the country recover. This is your brand, Minister. It is because the PISA is telling us that, 50 years after 25 April, our education system does not promote equal opportunities and does not provide minimal learning to Portuguese students. And it's your fault, Minister, and your PS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u42	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: Now called to this urgent debate, this House lost, a little more than a week ago, the opportunity to improve the conditions of public school, its professionals, children, young people and their families, by chuming an important set of CFP proposals with the necessary and urgent measures. These are urgent measures that have not been taken. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u44	It is not enough to require urgent discussions, it is necessary to take options. Now, with regard to central and decisive options, the Liberal Initiative has been placed alongside the Socialist Party, and now also the PSD, in many respects, against the fundamental proposals of the PSD — of the PCP, pardon —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u45	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u46	... as the count of the full time of service of the teachers, fulfilling both with the government in the six-year course, six months and 23 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u48	The Liberal Initiative was, like the PSD, alongside the PS and its Government, to halt the necessary reduction in the number of students per class, and partnered with the PS and its government against the PCP proposal, which aimed to guarantee all students the free acquisition of compulsory school material.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u49	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u50	The Liberal Initiative helped to prevent, with its abstention, the PCP's fair proposals to make the teaching career more attractive and to improve the conditions of students and teachers. Mrs. Members, Minister of Education, in this debate it is also necessary to confront the Government and the PS with their options. In education, as in most areas, the advances resulted from the initiative and persistence of the CFP. The PS has never done so on its own initiative and has been forced under circumstances. This was the case, for example, with free access to school textbooks, only lacking to dedicate it to the exercise paper books, which the Socialist Party refuses. It was thus with the replacement of the number of students per class for the limits of the pre-Nuno Crato era, and it was necessary to reduce - the same as the PS insists on chumbar. And so it was with the end of the 4th exams. the e of the 6. the year and with support for study visits, although the PS refuses its full gratuity. But life, Mrs. Members, Minister, showed that the absolute majority of the PS did not serve to solve the problems of public school, when it rejects CFP proposals towards the necessary advances. This was the case, for example, with regard to the counting of hours of service subtracted from teachers; the counting of working hours in full time; measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and technicians; the competition for extraordinary linkage; the strengthening of school social action; and the increase in the number of pre-school education rooms in the public network. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to change policy. Therefore, the PCP and, with this party, the CDU are confirmed as the alternative of trust. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u51	The CDU or the PCP?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u52	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister and Minister : In the first edition of the PISA in which the Portuguese school participated in 2000 Portugal was far below the OECD average. in a decade — precisely in that decade that Nuno Crato called the "lost decade for education" — we converged with the OECD average in all fields of literacy. And we also continue in this 2022 assessment in the group of countries that do not statistically distinguish themselves from the OECD average, with results online with Germany, France, Norway, Spain or the United States, for example. In 2000, in mathematics, Portugal was 38 points below the OECD average and 30 points below the European Union average. Today, we are with exactly the same points. In reading we were 23 points below the OECD and 15 below the EU. Today we are one point above the OECD and eight points above the EU. In science we were 34 points below the OECD and 25 points below the EU. Today we are one point below the OECD and three points above the European Union. This global trend is the portrait of the Portuguese education system: we went from a large comparative delay to the group of countries online with the OECD average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD says PS is responsible for this situation: then, yes, we are proud of him. Some do not seem to know that the results of PISA 2022 are abnormal, globally. In 20 years of PISA, the OECD averages in mathematics never varied more than three points, from one edition to the next; this time, the OECD average dropped 16 points. For those with no interest in rigor, it doesn't matter and they say that Portugal has come down, as if they didn't know that the decline was global and that Portugal's results varied in line with the overall variation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u54	We're coming down more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u55	Of course, there have always been those who underestimate the enormous challenge that the pandemic has meant to all those who work in schools and schools, but this happens only to those who have nothing to do with reality. [[PSD MP Protests, Sonia Ramos.]] Something that deserves our special attention is that the socio-economic condition of students continues to weigh too much on the differences in results, despite some positive signs in the evolution of our school's ability to leave no one behind. That is why we insist on education policies focused on ensuring, step by step, success and equal access for all. The public school welcomes everyone and does not run away from their responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u56	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u57	... to promote learning for all. Foreign students are today 11, 3 % of the school population, a much more significant variation than the OECD average. In the first generation of immigrants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u58	That's good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u59	...the difference in results for Portuguese students is 43 points, but this disadvantage is partially absorbed immediately in the next generation. This educational success is much more important than some points on a numerical scale. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u60	It is the concrete reality of the value of education: I repeat, the public school welcomes everyone and does not escape their responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u62	... to promote learning for all. That's what counts for the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u63	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : In the last week, those who have read international newspapers have found that there is no country in the world that is not discussing the results of the PISA. All the international newspapers — the El País, the Le Monde, the Globe — all around the world are discussing the results of the PISA. Depending on geography, they argue differently. In Brazil, for example, there was a cover that said: « Rich countries have fallen in PISA. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, throughout the world this phenomenon was discussed, that of the most developed countries had more emphasis on PISA. It is a debate that the Portuguese newspapers also did. Of course, this became known as the PISA of the pandemic and it is fair that this is: the fact that there are millions of students without classes, without access to present or even conditioned classes from a distance point of view, as is obvious, this has an influence on the results of the PISA. But it has come to the conclusion, and also the PISA itself, that this would not be enough to explain the results — neither those of Portugal nor those of the other countries. We will, of course, have to assess the conditions of each country. I want to point out that the fact that the pandemic affects the results of PISA is not just about the absence of classes. The socio-economic contexts of the families of students who were at home count; the conditions of students to study at home count; the possibilities of families, the precariousness of these families to accompany these students count; the responses of countries to mental health problems count—now, Portugal may find more answers in the absence of mental health responses than often in the education system itself. So there are many factors that count here. There are also other conclusions that the PISA has come up with, for example, that there is no substantial difference between public and private schools in the fall of results. I also think, and the Left Block, that we need to carefully study the reasons for the fall of these results. Now, when we have this debate, assuming that we have the answers to this question, if it is clear what are the answers you want to present. Mr Rui Rocha has intended to indicate that he has the answers to this, he knows why there has been this fall, but he does not say why, because he does not have the courage to say that the problem is the end of the examination of the 4. year. He has no courage because he knows well that it does not fit with the modern image that the Liberal Initiative wants to pass... [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u65	...and therefore wants to have a debate with the Arrival about who still defends the school with the maps of the Mininho...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u66	Hey, man, Joana, did you hear the speech? If you hear, you're being dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u67	I was unattended, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u68	... Timor and the 4th exam. the year, but that gets hard when you defend the exam of 4. the class. He makes generic considerations about the autonomy of schools, without making any assessment of the deepening of the autonomy and curriculum flexibility of schools, and what he does is not, for example, an evaluation of other models that have failed in turn, such as the model of Sweden, that which has applied what the Liberal Initiative here defends, which are the independent schools, the teaching checks, the public-private partnerships; yes, with concrete results and on which you do not make any evaluation. It's like he didn't exist. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: we shall have to understand clearly what has happened. One thing is right, we will need more resources for public school and we would certainly need a minister who did not recognize the rights of teachers only after he has resigned. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u69	Six budgets! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u70	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u71	Mr President, Caras e Caros Collegas, Minister, Minister : We are going to discuss, on 10 March, two very different views of the social contract, which was inaugurated in Portugal with democracy. In the view that the right one wants to present, one part of the public services is delivered to the private, because this allows to accommodate a tax drop...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u72	What right? We haven't even talked yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u73	... with which they hope to seduce a part of the middle class, to join those who will benefit from these privatizations, and the richest, who will benefit much more from this cut in taxes. on the left side, it is necessary to defend the reinforcement and renewal of this social contract. And one of its essential elements is even education: we cannot tell the same middle class that there will be an expected degradation in teaching that makes the middle class eventually change their children to the private and thus generate a spiral in which public education is diminished. Mr Porfirio Silva tells us that Portugal is on average in the OECD ; we need to tell the other side, i.e. that the OECD is coming down on the global average.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u74	What's the question? Great news!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u75	Therefore, in order for Portugal to fulfil this founding social contract on 25 April, it is not enough to tell people that their children will be on the OECD average, because for Portugal to be competitive we have to be above the OECD average and we have to be competitive on the global average.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u76	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. And for this it is even necessary a great reinforcement in public school, which means that people have the expectation that it will be competitive in relation to private, in what it offers, that it will be democratized, because many people are also seeing at this moment the defects of very centralized directions...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u78	You've got two more hours...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u79	...in public school and, therefore, with all this...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u80	Where do your kids study?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u81	... it is necessary to strengthen and renew the social contract that brought us here, especially in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u82	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Education, João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will focus on my intervention, in fact, on the question raised here, which are the results of the PISA, in which, as has already been said, the fall in Portugal follows the OECD average. The usual commentators, some entirely replicated in Mr Rui Rocha's speech, have deleted some of the analysis that, in some cases, they were obliged to do, even by their experience in statistical analysis. For example, when they said that Portugal fell much more than the other OECD countries deleted the fact that the difference in the fall of Portugal and the OECD average had no statistical significance. Mrs Sonia Ramos has the slightness to say that the average falls because new countries enter, having certainly not read anything from the PISA report and ignoring that the trend analysis in the PISA reports is done with a fixed set of countries exactly to neutralize this effect. They also ignored, as Mr Porfirio Silva pointed out, that this is the first time that the OECD has a fall, on average, above four points. This is therefore in fact an unprecedented PISA in OECD history. They also ignored the fact that I said, yes, that this is the PISA of the pandemic, but that I was the first to say, along with the OECD, that the pandemic does not explain everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u84	Exactly! Whoever heard it, heard it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u85	... given that there has been a declining trend since 2012 in almost all OECD countries. Mrs. Sonia Ramos, when she voiced...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u86	There are missing and not missing students!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u87	...that the government has destroyed the public school and benefited from the private school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u88	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u89	... ignored a very relevant data from this PISA, which is the fact that there is no difference in the results between public schools and private schools. This does not suit the commercial spirit of the PSD. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u90	The absolute results are bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u91	It is obvious that this relative fall, as has been mentioned by several, should not cause us to lose focus on the absolute results of Portugal. I have read and listened very carefully to the various analysts, the various commentators, and those very comments which were brought here by Mr Rui Rocha deserve some comments on behalf of the seriousness. [[Rice from Mr Rui Rocha.]] First, it must be said—and here making a parenthesis of gratitude to the international IAVE study team and, in particular, to the new member of the Governing Council, Dr. Anabela Serrão — that in 2022, unlike 2018, Portugal met all the technical requirements of the sample, unlike the vast majority of countries, which did not achieve, as Portugal did not succeed in 2018, under a different coordination of this study. On the other hand, there is no relationship — contrary to what you are trying to say, our service commentators — between the existence of tests...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u92	There's a trauma there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u93	...and the results of the PISA. Otherwise we can see: in South Korea, Ireland, Canada – countries at the top in PISA – there is only evidence of measurement, there is no examinations in basic education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u94	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u95	In Estonia — the country at the top in PISA — the retention is truly extraordinary, being almost non-existent in accordance with the legislation in Estonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u96	They've come down much less than us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u97	The largest rise in Portugal, as mentioned here, in the « lost decade for education » of Nuno Crato, occurred when there were no national examinations No 4. o and 6. the years; there was only proof of measurement. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u98	Look, three palms! Only three cheers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u99	In 2015, the year of PSD glory, students who participated in PISA had not taken any exams or no 4. year or year 6. year. Those in 2018 had already done some of these tests. There is also no correlation,... [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] ... contrary to what they try to say, between a curriculum by competences, a curriculum by knowledge or a mixed curriculum, as is now the case with Portugal. Let us see: the United Kingdom, which eradicated the word « competence » of its curricular documents, like what had been done in the PSD government, has fallen similar to Portugal. The Netherlands, which has a similar curriculum trend, has fallen above Portugal. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] Singapore, which has a curriculum structured in skills in mathematics, is a country at the top. Ireland, which has a curriculum focused on reading skills, is the country of Europe with better reading results. Also, and it would be interesting if so, we did not find a correct correlation between the duration of the closing of schools, contrary to what Mr Rui Rocha said, and the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u100	It's got them closed longer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u101	Let's see: Macao, one of the most long-term economies in the closing time of schools, is a top country. Italy has results that do not follow that trend either. Sweden, which became known as the country which did not close schools, with falls higher than Portugal. So what do we have to do? We must also continue and look at the PISA report, see what recommendations they make to countries and see whether this path has begun in recent years or not. Higher autonomy of schools and review of references to external evaluation of schools: we did; mentorships between students: they were launched two years ago; investment in social and emotional competences and in student follow-up: we created tutoring and more support for students, instead of retaining them, as proposed by the OECD; intentionality in school programs: we are developing the PISA for Schools with schools, the National Reading Plan is designing new materials based on national and international results, the new Mathematics curriculum was accompanied by the study being done in countries such as Singapore ; avoid — it is also in the recommendations — the early differentiation of educational courses: this is what the Socialist Party did in the Government, eliminating early differentiation, as it did in vocational basic education courses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u102	Mr. Minister has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u103	You've spent all the time, which is not to respond to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u104	I must conclude and conclude, Mr President, I was not really paying attention to time. Finally, a focus on well-being: it is good to see that Portuguese students report one of the highest feelings of belonging to the school. In short, we have to analyze the data seriously, make them the subject, as Mrs. Joana Mortágua said, of the investigation, of the deepening of measures, and not embark on simple, reductive analyses that feed the discourse of meritocracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u105	It's incompetence!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u106	...to the detriment of the country's main challenge, which is to continue to eradicate inequalities in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u107	The Minister has a request for clarification, not having time to answer. In order to make the request for clarification, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u108	Mr President of some benches, Minister, I am very sorry that you spent all the time right now in your first and only intervention in this debate. I think the debate and the Members deserved more respect from you. When he talks about analyzing the data seriously, he liked to have done the analysis of data on insecurity and violence in schools, because he forgot to do that analysis. Violence is increasing in schools in Portugal, although you continue to say no, and say: "Ah, the speech of the Arrival is alarmist. Do not keep on seeking. ” Then I will remind you that on October 11, 2022 we faced you with news from the school in Campo Maior — October 11, 2022 — :« Campo Maior : fathers outraged by ‘constant aggressions to the children’. » Dozens of parents accused the direction of schools of nothing or little doing, when their children are attacked by people who do not know how to live in a society that gives them everything by hand. This was in October 2022. In November 2023, Luís Rosinha, President of the Municipal Chamber of Major Field of the Socialist Party, said that he wanted to discuss insecurity in schools with the government. Do you know why, Minister? Because you didn't solve the problem. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] There is a very serious problem in the school in Campo Maggiore — there is a member of Campo Maggiore and he knows exactly what I am saying — and the Minister has not solved it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u109	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u110	Neither you nor your government have been able to solve this for one reason: because they are incompetent. Because they're incompetent! And that incompetence is going to be expensive on the next 10th of March. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u111	After all, there were two requests for clarification. In order to make the second request for clarification, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u112	Mr President, Minister, I would like to tell you that, as you well know, the gap, the differences and the possibility of dreaming between the most deprived and the most favored students has increased. As you know, the difference is 100 points. That is what the report says.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u113	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u114	Therefore, your government has failed to mitigate social asymmetries in education. But now that you are sitting there, Minister, I would also like to ask you the following: who did not agree, after all, with the recovery of the teachers' time of service? Was it Mr. Minister? Was it António Costa? Or were the Ministers José Luís Carneiro and Pedro Nuno Santos when they were sitting on the Council of Ministers? [[Oh, yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u115	After all, use it there to clarify who didn't want to get back to service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u116	For an intervention on behalf of the PAN Party, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, Minister : The evaluation of the PISA, which we met last week, has made it clear to us that, even with the impact of the cover-19, schools have been able to ensure learning and the well-being of children and young people. This puts us on the OECD average, although with lower results than in 2018. But there is a very clear question for the NAP, from an ideological point of view, which separates us from this debate today that the Liberal Initiative brings us: is that the gap or gap they want to create in relation to the capacity of the public school vis-à-vis the private, clearly does not exist, and we owe to the public school a centre of equal opportunities for many children and young people who would otherwise not exist and who clearly exist in our country. This work and these good results are mainly due to the work of its professionals, schools and, therefore, the inequalities in learning, so that they can continue to be mitigated, they still lack some factors. This is not only due to the simplification that has existed so far of content, it is necessary to go further. In our view, the assessment of the PISA, which has been the same for all, has to be differentiated, but there are two aspects that I would like to take advantage of today to question it. On the one hand, in relation to the area of Mathematics—because here, yes, we have a low performance—I ask what evaluation it does, how it looks at these numbers and what path it should be made to improve. On the other hand, according to six in every 10 school principals, what they say is the main degradation for equality and quality of teaching is the lack of teachers. Mr. Minister has already come to say that there is a way here...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u118	The man's fired!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u119	... that is available to do in the negotiations, and I ask you how far it is available to walk to the structural review of the Statute of the Teaching Career,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u120	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u121	...and thus end with the arbitrary division, in particular the end of the educational quotas. Because, unlike the vision that the Liberal Initiative brings us today, we defend the public school and we want a public school for the future of more young people and children in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u122	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u123	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was writing to Martim, a 15-year-old, this week, saying he doesn't know what to do in the future. He said that he and most of the young people of his age don't know what IRS, VAT, they don't know how to buy a house, they don't know what it takes to buy a house and he said he's very afraid of the future, that he recognizes it's desperate. He thought and proposed the creation of a discipline that would help him with these themes about life itself, he said himself. But then I remembered that, in fact, this discipline already exists, called Citizenship and Development, was created by this Minister and teaches everything but citizenship and development. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You would say that this is the fruit of the era, that it is the winds of change. They may say they are very modern, but the truth is that this stupidification of what they will call "the most qualified generation of ever" is not coincidence and it is not from now on. Note that in the 1980s, Unesco defended that curricula should prepare young people for their future roles, for sexual relations, parental roles, professionals and civic responsibilities. But they stopped at the first point and that is why the school level will continue to fall, because the role of the school was redefined, the main mission ceased to be intellectual training and became social training.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u124	It's ideological!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u125	And who thought about this social training? Paulo Freire, the most cited and studied pedagogue in schools and universities, which, by coincidence, is a Marxist...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u126	That one now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u127	... and, by coincidence, also said that education should be an instrument of transformative action, a political practice of radical rupture of structures and of transformation of consciences. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] My dear ones, for these gentlemen, universal education has never been an end in itself. For these gentlemen, teaching and school are a means of advancing the cultural and political revolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u128	It's so ignorant!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u129	Stalin said that the production of souls is much more important than the production of tanks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u130	Talk about what you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u131	It is decades and decades old to deform the soul of children in our schools, in Portuguese schools,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...because worse than a generation without opportunities, without decent wages, without housing, is a taught and formatted generation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u132	It's really formatted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u133	...to perpetuate the same as ever in power. Know one thing: with the left does not negotiate, much less the education of our children! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u134	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lúcia Araújo da Silva now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u135	Mr President, I welcome you, as well as Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The marking of the Liberal Initiative of an urgent debate on education, in order to say that we are before the most abandoned generation of ever, is an offense to teachers, students and their families, technical and operational assistants, government policies in defense of public school, city halls and the entire educational community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u136	Let them talk, then they say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics we must also be intellectually serious. [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] Mr Rui Rocha, let's talk about results. According to the OECD report Education at a Glance, recently published, Portugal has the following education data: in the last seven years, from 2015 to 2022, the percentage of young people between 25 and 34 years of age who completed secondary education rose from 33 % to 44 % ; the percentage of students who did not complete secondary education fell from 33 % to 17 % ; the percentage of young people with secondary vocational qualifications rose from 14 to 20 % ; the percentage of young people who did not — they did not — they did not study or work — in Portugal is 3, 3 % below the OECD average ; participation rates in pre-school education are significantly above the OECD average, 78 % compared to 73 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u138	What about the PISA? What about the neither?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, popular wisdom tells us that blind is the one who doesn't want to see. And, in fact, as the Liberal Initiative does not defend the public school, it is not able to recognize the good political measures for education, it just prefers to base its discourse, along with the right, that in the last eight years of socialist governance there are only problems in the country and in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u140	It's patriotic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unquestionable that we have more students and teachers in schools. In the school year of 2021 - 2022, the public school has, from pre-school to secondary school, more 8681 teachers than in 2015. In the period 2015 to 2021, the retention and withdrawal rate in secondary education fell from 15, 5 % to 8, 4 %. The completion rate in scientific-humanistic courses rose from 70 % to 90 % and in vocational courses rose from 74 % to 84 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u143	Mrs. Members, these advances do not happen by chance, these advances result in a good functional partnership between political decision makers and professionals in schools. And that is how we will continue to fight; with problems, yes, but always solve them. And I would ask Mr Rui Rocha whether, in view of the results I have listed, he still does not want to see and prefer to continue with the attitude of destroying the public school. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u144	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u145	I'm done now, Mr President, I'm just asking for one more second. Mr. Pedro Pinto is here to make his usual film. Instead of coming here to make the film, I should ask Campo Major what is being done. I will tell you: there have been huge meetings in Campo Mayor to solve the problem of violence in schools...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u146	You know he's lying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u147	...and it would be good for Mr. Member, instead of pointing his finger, [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u148	Present solutions! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u149	... present solutions. That would be good for him and democracy would appreciate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u150	They're laughing! They throw their mouths and then laugh. They look like puppies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u151	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an obvious conclusion of this debate, and it is very simple: neither the PS nor the government — now nor the right — have done what they should to improve public school...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u153	What did you guys do?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u154	... and to make more attractive the careers of education professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u155	To close the debate, I call the Liberal Initiative. Is it not to close the debate? [[Pause.]] So, the Liberal Initiative now has an intervention to make. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Socialism does not work and there is no need for education. Last week, some were surprised by the results of the PISA 2022 ; some, because the Liberal Initiative was not caught by surprise. The data are evidence of eight years of failed policies, also in education, and they give us reason. The Liberal Initiative warned that the government was implementing wrong policies and failing to recover from learning, that the Minister so strongly insisted that it was a success. And, once again, we have a whole generation of young people to see their future compromised by the incompetence of the PS government. Education has the function of equipping all children and young people with the skills they need for the future and serving as a social elevator. Through education, inequalities are corrected and a more free and fair society is created. Portugal is the fifth country in the European Union where inequality is greater. PISA tells us that young people with the most disadvantaged means have better results than those with the most disadvantaged means. Now, poverty should not be a fatality. However, in our country it is. OECD data tell us that it takes five generations for children born into poorer families to be able to ascend socially. And access to education — a quality education that prepares them for the future — is, or should be, their only hope. The Minister of Education has said that the poor results of the PISA are not associated with the policies of recent years and that this is the « PISA of the pandemic ». No, Mr Minister, this is not the "PISA of the pandemic", it is the PISA of socialism that is robbing our young people of the opportunity to have a better future, to ambitiously and to have a better life than their parents and grandparents had. This is the mark that PS leaves us at this end of cycle. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are three months away from the legislative elections. On March 10, the Liberal Initiative will return the future to our children and hope to our young people. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u157	Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will make a few comments on the speeches we have heard here. Mr Porfirio Silva speaks of equality and I grant that he is right. In fact, the results are falling for everyone. That is, they are all more and more equal in mediocre results. If this is the equality that the PS is looking for, we dispensed and, surely, from March 10, we will be in another championship. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mrs. Joana Mortagua, you certainly did not hear my speech, because what I said about the exams and the final tests of the cycle, was very clear. So don't put the words I didn't say in my mouth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u159	I said 4. The class!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u160	We are very clear, we know what we want and we assume this without any problem. By now, Mrs Deputy, I agree that it may not be the "PISA of the Socialist Party". There are others in charge in this room. These officials are also called Left Block and PCP, which for years severely damaged public school. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PCP protests.]] With regard to the CFP, Mr. Members proposed, for example, fewer students per class. We can actually discuss whether there is any advantage in this. There's likely to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u161	Do you have any doubts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u162	But you have been consistent with the Socialist Party by creating a situation in which there are no teachers for the students we have. Therefore, you want to reduce the number of students by class and teacher. I ask them where are the teachers, because you, with those gentlemen who are there, have degraded the public school, and today there are not enough teachers for the students we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u163	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u164	Finally, Mr President, to conclude, the position presented by the Socialist Party here and the position presented by the Minister here also well demonstrates the need for change. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr. Minister went to study Singapore, went to study Macao, went to study Sweden, went to study Hong Kong, went to study the whole world to arrange the custom: excuses to cover up what is the worst service the PS has done in education. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] History will judge you regarding this action. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u165	We now turn to the last item on our agenda, which consists of the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure, with the participation of the Prime Minister. We'll just wait a few seconds for the benches to recompose. [[Pause.]] To open the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next European Council, on 14 and 15, has two essential points : one on enlargement of the European Union ; another on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. On the first question, Portugal's position is quite clear: all enlargement processes must be assessed on the basis of merit and in accordance with the evaluation made by the European Commission. If the European Commission believes that a new step should be taken towards opening negotiations with Ukraine, Portugal will accompany the European Commission and will support progress in the process of European integration of Ukraine. Secondly, we do not ignore the fact that it is not possible to turn away the process of enlargement from the European Union to Ukraine without taking due account of the candidatures of the countries of the Western Balkans. It was in this framework that I recently visited Albania, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, and we all believe that it is necessary and possible to take steps forward in view of the enlargement process. Portugal has a great advantage since, as a result of the geographical distance, the fruit of its history, as a result of cultural reasons, we are not "masters" of any of the Western Balkan countries and we look at everyone with equal objectivity, so we can be honest and frank partners in identifying difficulties, but also in political, technical and financial support to overcome these difficulties. As I have said and repeated — and today it is fortunately already consensual among all the members of the European Council — this new enlargement process must be accompanied in parallel by the internal reform of the European Union. It is not possible to go back to the hesitations we had at the beginning of the century between « deepening» and « enlargement », where « enlargement» was ahead of « deepening », and many of the difficulties we are facing today are objectively resulting from this error then committed. Therefore, these processes must be parallel. They must be parallel not to delay any enlargement, but to ensure that the next enlargements will have at least the same success as the previous ones. This implies a new institutional architecture, which implies a new budgetary architecture and these processes must move forward in parallel. I have argued that this is indeed an opportunity to solve some of the problems that we already have within the European Union today. It is false the idea that the 27 Member States feel comfortable with the current level of integration. There are many, like Portugal, who understand that we should go further. There are others, with different geographical origins, who, on the contrary, feel uncomfortable that we have already gone so far. Therefore, if we want to avoid new exits, we must seek to work within the framework of the Lisbon Treaty all the tools we have so that anyone who wants to go further can do so with enhanced cooperation; whoever wants to go further can do so with the key clauses on the decision-making process; but also that those who do not feel comfortable about the level of integration can enjoy a greater optingout framework to have a lower degree of commitment. This is a fundamental condition for what I have referred to as a « common house, which is also a multifunction building». There is a basis on which it is impossible to have any openness, any concession or any discussion, which has to do with the values that unite the European Union, because these values are the foundations of this building and there cannot be any transition there. From that point on, there is certainly a large common area of the customs union, the internal market, the four freedoms, cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and then different corridors, which some are going through to access Schengen, whether or not others are going through to access the euro, whether or not they are going through to access new areas in foreign policy, in the common defence policy, in the European pillar of social rights, in taxation, that is, in many areas where there is a lot of space to grow in the integration process. Dangerous would be a rigidity that leads to failure rather than the necessary flexibility that allows anyone wanting to move forward, that anyone who wants to stay at the point where he is can stay at the point where he is, and that those who feel uncomfortable today feel more comfortable in the common house of this multifunction building. Finally, I refer to the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. It was a debate that began with great ambition, but ambition has been fading, and the recent decision of the German Constitutional Court has removed a lot of room for manoeuvre so that it can be seen in this mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework something particularly significant. There is a fundamental point: ensuring the intoxicability of national envelopes for cohesion policy and agricultural policy — which will be untouchable. Secondly, priority is guaranteed: providing Ukraine with a predictable and stable framework for financing over the coming years. The second priority is not to go back to the European Commission's economic growth programme for all the Balkan countries. The third priority is to have room for us to strengthen the solidarity fund so that we can cope with the natural disasters that have unfortunately been repeated in different European Union geography in this climate change framework. I look forward to a long, difficult European Council, which will probably not be exhausted on Friday, but of which I hope that it will turn out what is essential. First of all, a unequivocal commitment by the European Union to the expectations it has created for Ukraine and the countries of the Western Balkans, resulting in a political and moral imperative, but also a correct reading of the geopolitical challenges facing the European Union. Second, it is possible to review the minimum multiannual financial framework to ensure robust and predictable support for Ukraine, ensuring that no resources will be lacking to guarantee interest payments due by NextGenerationEU. Thirdly, it can also support the economic growth efforts of the Western Balkan countries, and thus successfully conclude this European Council of the next 13 and 14. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u167	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u168	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mrs and Mr Members: Since this is most likely the last time I will use the floor in this rostrum, since I have decided not to apply again - the honourable Member, I ask you to allow me a brief introductory note personally to this intervention, to express the pleasure and honour I have had to join this sovereignty body, for which I was elected seven times by the district of Évora, although, having been called to occupy government positions, I have only effectively exercised the role of a Member on 11 of the 22 years corresponding to the period of their respective mandates. I would therefore like to thank all the Members of the House, all the seats, without exception, for the way they have always considered me and for which I have always tried to respond reciprocally. Let me also highlight especially all the colleagues of the Committee on European Affairs, whom I have chaired over the past four years, for the good environment and a continuing spirit of constructive collaboration that has always guided our work, in a gratitude that I am extending to the excellent technical team that our Commission has available. Also to you, Prime Minister, to whom the story will make justice sooner than later, I would like to publicly witness the pleasure and honour I had to work with you and for allowing me, though modestly, to contribute to the best country we have today, even though we have not always agreed on some political options. A last thanks to the members of the Government who over the past four years have protected European affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs Augusto Santos Silva and the Secretary of State for European Affairs Tiago Antunes, for the ready and permanent availability to attend, respond and provide information to Parliament. Everyone, Members of the Government and officials, I wish the greatest happiness. [[PS, PSD, PAN and L applause.]] On the subject of this debate, the European Council of 14 and 15 December, whose agenda contains, as it could not fail to be, unshakeable points on the political and international agenda, I would like to say on Ukraine, the crisis in the Middle East and the complex question of new enlargements, without disregard for the other items on the agenda to which Mr Prime Minister has already made an exhaustive reference. Europe and the world do not, unfortunately, live their best days, and some European and Western leaders seem to be increasingly distant from a reality that is moving ever faster and leaving us increasingly alone in a multilateral international order that is moving away from the values that shape our societies, which, despite all the imperfections, are those where well-being, security, democracy, the rule of law and human rights have more advanced. I am therefore pleased with the draft Council conclusions on Ukraine, reaffirming the positions which the European Union has taken on humanitarian, political, financial and military positions since the fateful 24 February. Knowing that it will not be easy, I hope that the proposals for completion deserve consensus, despite the well-known dissonant positions of some Member States, especially when the pre-election internal political struggle in the United States weakens the Ukrainian cause and encourages the invader to pursue the carnage, destruction and occupation of part of the territory of a sovereign country. I am sure that the Prime Minister will reaffirm Portugal's clear position on this issue and will contribute to the adoption of the conclusion that European citizens require. I would, however, like you to explain a little more what the main obstacles you are hoping to encounter and how you think you can help overcome them. As for the Middle East, after the stupefaction and horror caused by the barbaric terrorist attacks of Hamas, we have seen for weeks a disproportionate retaliation which, under the invocation of Israel's legitimate and imperative right of defence, is inflicting collective punishment on a whole people, causing massive displacements of populations—85 % in total, according to the Secretary-General of the United Nations — and a huge humanitarian tragedy, with a large number of innocent fatalities, much of which children, in clear violation of the laws of war and the right to the protection of civilians. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] Despite the courageous statements by his High Representative for Foreign Policy, Josep Borrell, and the governments of some Member States, the European Union as a whole has not been strong enough in condemning the violation of human rights in Gaza and in avoiding the high risk of humanitarian collapse invoked by the UN Secretary-General in his desperate attempt to achieve a ceasefire that the American veto in the Security Council failed, despite the rhetoric of Blinken. Human rights cannot be subject to two weights and two measures. The life of a human being must have the same value in Gaza, Ukraine or anywhere else in the world. As the draft Council conclusions which I had no access to on this item on the agenda, I would like Mr. Prime Minister to inform this House of the expectation of possible conclusions on this subject, which cannot fail to be consistent with the universal values we proclaim. Finally, with regard to the new enlargements — the political need of which is directly proportional to those which are still poorly assessed, but serious, economic, financial and institutional consequences for the European Union we know today — the Commission's proposals made public on 8 November and which will be on the Council table are both ambitious and prudent, although this seems to be a paradox. We are faced with a great heterogeneity of situations: from the allocation of the status of the candidate country to Georgia ; from the opening of accession negotiations with more or less conditionalities, with Ukraine, Moldova and Bosnia-Herzegovina ; to the complex and dragged issue of the other countries of the Western Balkans, to which Mr Prime Minister has already referred, where the situation differs greatly from country to country, without forgetting Serbia, whose disalignment with the European Union's foreign policy and security is also obvious. The draft Council conclusions basically follow the Commission's proposals, but in view of the position of some Member States, there is a difficult debate that in the case of Ukraine, to be blocked by the proposal, can further weaken its position at the external level and leave the Union in an uncomfortable situation, especially after so many expectations have been created. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Commission's proposal as a whole, and does he still think that it is possible to make new enlargements without changing treaties? In anticipation of the clarifications that Mr. Prime Minister will give to this House, I am voting in good luck for a meeting which will surely be difficult, as he has already acknowledged, but whose conclusions or lack of them will say much about the current state of the Union. Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President, also for the exemplary way in which you have exercised your mandate and for the prestige that you have brought to the Assembly of the Republic with your activity. In reply, I now give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u170	Mr President, Mr Capoulas Santos, I warmly greet you for your remarkable journey both in Parliament and in the Government, both in the European Parliament, at the service of the public case over these more than 30 years. The point on the Middle East, point 12, is still open, but I believe that the President of the Council will present it as close as possible to the meeting. The European Union cannot always be pretending that there is no disagreement between the 27 Member States, and this is a matter in which the 27 Member States clearly disagree. Our position is very clear, and it has already been at the last Council, continuing to be unconditional support for the positions which the United Nations has taken, in particular the positions in which Eng.António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, has insisted. The international credibility of the European Union depends precisely on unmistakably fidelity to the principles of international law and the inacceptability of any logic of double standards when life is Palestinian or Israeli, because all lives are equally sacred and the duty to respect international law is also due to everyone. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] But this is also a good occasion for those who are anxious to remove the principle of unanimity in the field of foreign policy to reflect well on whether we are mature to eliminate the principle of unanimity at 27, at the latest 30 more n, or whether it is in another institutional framework that we will be able to deal with this dimension. Finally, on the issue of treaties, let us see, everything recommends that there be a review of treaties. If I wonder if this is possible, I think it is impossible to review treaties to 27, which means that Lisbon will continue to be the cornerstone of the treaty for many and good years and that we have to work on the tools it gives us: strengthened cooperations, gateway clauses, the possibility of opting out. Review of treaties to 27, I do not see that it is possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u171	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u172	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: A previous note to the context we have here to say goodbye, not to Mr Capoulas Santos, who was exemplary in presiding over the Committee on European Affairs, but to this socialist era. The PSD cannot fail to record, first of all, the way this government era began, which was with a defeat of the Socialist Party. That's how management began to govern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u173	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u174	...and the way this socialist era ends we all know what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, either in the way they begin, or in the way they end, there is no great reason for pride. [[PSD applause.]] Speaking about a point that matters in this governmental era, this short duration of the absolute majority does not make us forget the moments that have lived with parties that are against European construction and against the European project. And it is important to remember this today, in this debate, even because what is promised for the future with this Socialist Party is precisely to give back the hands, arms and hugs to the PCP and the Left Block, which are anti-European parties. [[PSD applause.]] And with a possible future leader who says he wants to shake the bankers' legs. That record, with the PSD, won't happen. The change we will have in Parliament, with the majority of the PSD in the future, is precisely a change that wants to turn the page to defend Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u175	Look how the rush works!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u176	We defend this because this registration of the Socialist Party is a farewell record, but above all, it is a record that frightens us for the future. [[PS MP Jamila Madeira protests.]] And speaking of extremism, we must not forget the United States, where right-wing populism threatens to block fundamental aid from Ukraine's military package. Here in Europe, Viktor Orbán also threatens to block the fundamental aid package for Ukraine. Regardless of political space, it is important to know that we cannot give in to everything. We cannot give in to our principles when, for the most part, we have Ukrainians dying because of what we believe, which are our principles, fighting for democracy. In the PSD, we make our message clear, everyone knows our direction, everyone knows our future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u178	And what red lines does the Socialist Party draw in Portugal and Europe? In Spain, we have seen that none. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, the next European Council will have a fundamental debate on the agenda, the Commission's proposal to initiate negotiations and accession with Ukraine, and Viktor Orbán, an extremist with whom Mr Prime Minister has a good relationship, threatens to break this unanimity. But it would be a huge political failure if Hungary in the next European Council used its veto power to block the main issues concerning Ukraine. How can this be avoided? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u179	Even in the intervention time reserved for the PSD, Mr. Paulo Moniz now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State : I shall begin with the subject of enlargement, in what are the changes to institutional architecture and, fundamentally, the budget. He made this journey, last week, with candidates, he spoke of a problem of pipeline credibility, of course those who are candidates and those who are not yet and await this status, but the fundamental question of enlargement is this: how will Portugal continue, in the decision-making aspect, to have a force and a preponderant role that unanimity gives it and, on the other hand, from the point of view of the Community funds, to be able to secure a balance in its favour? — as has been the case this year; in the next budget of 2024, it is about EUR 6 billion. That is to say, we have received money from Europe and the question I ask you is this: in this new budget architecture, with enlargement, what is the guarantee, what is the effort you are making so that we will not become a real contribution rather than a recipient of these funds? This is crucial because, for example, while we are in political crisis in the political crisis generated by the Socialist Party, all the other countries that have the PRR and access to funds are modernizing the economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u181	They are not using the 1000 million for TAP, they are using them to modernise and make a reindustrialized and competitive economy. While the Prime Minister is also an agent of political turbulence, immersing the country in the crisis we are experiencing today, the others are developing. The others do not waste European funds. The question I ask you is: at least at the next European Council, what guarantee will it give us for this future circumstance to be safeguarded? [[PSD applause.]] I have another question. Mr. Prime Minister spoke about the importance of taxation. Today we know that your Government has had one year to transpose the IRC directive (tax on the income of the public) as a minimum instrument, even if it is globalized, and this transposition has failed. It is also at risk of opening a counter-ordination process because it failed to transpose a directive which constitutes an increase in revenue due to taxation. It is another directive that you do not implement. Ending with the lamentable critical execution numbers of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). We have heard from the report of 13 November that 23 % are in a state of crisis, of critical implementation. I am going back to what I started by saying: this is a country that cannot waste 1 cent of Community aid. In the face of these warnings, Mr. Prime Minister, knowing that he is leaving, however, what has he done and what will he do to ensure that we do not lose these values? Finally, I would like to ask you the question I asked you in the last pre-Council. We have information from the last Multiannual Financial Framework of 2020 that much of the money on fisheries and cohesion policy is to be implemented and will return to Brussels. The question I ask you today is the same: what is the value to be executed in the PT2020 in the fisheries and cohesion area? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u182	Now you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u183	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Moniz, first of all the transposition of the directive was on a bill pending in the Assembly of the Republic. When they created the political crisis, the PS Parliamentary Group turned it into a bill, and I hope that it will still be voted on, so that it can be properly approved. For the PRR, it follows a good material, physical execution. The delays we have now are related to the reforms, particularly the one against which the PSD fights, which is the reform of professional orders, in order to improve the climate of competition and a structural reform that did not run in the time of the troika... [[PSD protests.]] ... and that they still want to stop, subservient as they are to a corporate view of Portuguese society, against which the freedom of initiative must triumph. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, I must tell you that I was disturbed by your intervention. First of all, if there was anything that these years of governance have shown was defeat in the whole line of right and their vision of Europe. The vision of austerity Europe was crushed by this government action,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which showed that it was possible to increase wages without coming the devil, increase pensions without any disruptions in public finances, develop the social state having balanced public finances and the debt to be reduced. [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] What you have proved is that your revenue has been a failure and that the left-wing alternative has been clearly victorious in managing the relationship with Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the attitude of Portugal with Europe has changed. We've stopped kneeling and in a subservient position... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u184	... and we became in a constructive position within Europe, where our voice is heard and respected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Member, I must tell you that this political cycle may have begun with a PS defeat,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u185	...but it will surely continue with a PS victory on the next 10th of March. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u186	Does Mr. Paulo Moniz ask for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u187	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u188	Please, Mr. Deputy. Be brief, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u189	Mr President, of course, I have always seen you fight for the clarification of the House, as it is an obligation for good work to be carried out, and I would ask you, perhaps if you so understand, to remind me that I have asked you a question on the implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2020 on fisheries and cohesion, and certainly, by mistake, Mr Prime Minister has not answered. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u190	Mr President, you know the criteria I have always followed. Speakers are owners of the words they say, whether they ask when they answer. To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Bruno Nunes has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u191	Isn't the leader here today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u192	Are you missing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u193	Mr President of a number of seats, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, a previous note to wish Mr Luís Capoulas Santos the greatest personal luck and happiness, with whom I had the pleasure of sharing the Committee on European Affairs, and we were able to work without red lines. Speaking in red lines, I was surprised, Prime Minister, by listening to the PSD with this question of keeping red lines in here. However, I was confused when Mr. Prime Minister, in his speech, said that he went to Montenegro, and I thought that this issue, now, of the red lines had something to do with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u195	We are talking about the Council of Europe. Today morning, CNN said: “ Coastal focus is on the international agenda. We all believe that it will also go out with a clear objective to clear the image with which it will be presented in Europe after everything that has happened in the government internally. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] After his resignation, and not the resignation by the Prime Minister, and the way in which all this has been resolved, it will be interesting to hear from Europol how this whole process will be managed when we know that Europol in Portugal, as we have warned, is under the direct dependence of the Prime Minister himself. But let us talk about what will certainly never be separated from the question of enlargement. On the question of enlargement, we again risk the question of the Schengen area. We continue to have a policy in which, within the home, with the opening to the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) as VV. Ex.as determined, at the moment the Schengen area is at risk for its responsibility and its government. You are responsible for uncontrolled immigration, with the entrance door made by Portugal. This has been a very clear issue. However, at recent meetings in Europe, we have been very concerned about the economy and strategic autonomy, in an attempt to turn away from what is now to the right, or pseudo-right, called PSD, says that it is the danger of 'trumpism' and the danger of the United States. So let's talk about what Europe is trying to escape from a relationship with the United States because it thinks the economy made with totalitarian countries, such as Venezuela, or with China is cleaner. at this moment, this strategic plan ends up having a vision, and the question that I would like to ask you, to make it clear, is what protectionist measures will leave Portuguese companies and European companies, when we know that we will compete with markets that have low quality in production, which live with clear human rights violations, which do not respect human rights. This will obviously have a direct effect: in Portugal we will have to import more cheap labour, have wage dumping and create problems for companies that will certainly not be able to compete with companies in these markets. Quoting the one who attacked the Arrival so fiercely yesterday, I believe that the end of the European Council will be with the music of « goodbye, goodbye, auf Wiedersehen, goodbye ». Antonio Costa, never again! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u196	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u197	Mr. President of some seats, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, points 3 and 4 of the provisional agenda for the next European Council meeting address the situation in the Middle East and the next phase of enlargement. With regard to enlargement, the European Union, covering more countries, maintaining the current institutional architecture, would very much limit the sovereignty of the States that integrate it, which, for my party, would be unthinkable. Therefore, and taking into account the words that Mr Prime Minister here has left, the need for a Europe and a new architecture, which is the one we have always defended in our party, will be indispensable for any future enlargement. As for the Middle East, the Union's difficulty in finding a common position with regard to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is well known, contrary to what happened in the Russian-Ukraine conflict. However, at the heart of both conflicts is the same essential issue, that is, the stock of values of our Western civilization, represented in one case by Ukraine, and in the other by the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u199	More than an Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we should speak in an Israeli-Iranian conflict,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u200	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u201	... so, at the end of the day, it is the little respectable Islamic Republic of Iran that confronts Western democracy, which is the State of Israel. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, the question I want to leave here, Prime Minister, is this: admitting that what will be under discussion is the need for a common position in this conflict, Portugal will be on the side of Italy, France or Germany and other countries which fully support the State of Israel? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u202	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by answering the question which Mr Paulo Moniz has left to answer. First, for the fisheries fund, we had implemented 95 % last month, 96 % this month and payments to 100 % by April. There will be no loss of funds in fisheries. As regards cohesion policy, all regional operational plans are currently under control and there will be 100 % implementation in regional operational plans. On the issues raised by the Arrival, trade agreements are, in my view, the best way to ensure the social standards, environmental standards and democratic standards that need to be ensured in international trade. Secondly, I believe that the national security debate on 5G is enlightening on the understanding we have of strategic autonomy. Thirdly, the last party that I imagined had some reservation to the CPLP mobility agreement is that party that, because of its vision of the history of Portugal in the world, would be the last to oppose a mobility agreement among all those who speak Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u204	You're a little confused, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u205	I understand you're in a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u206	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u207	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, I begin by addressing Mr Capoulas Santos, on my behalf and on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, a word of greeting, appreciation and desire for personal happiness for your future. Mr Prime Minister, I do not know with what record I will answer, if with the analytical record of your initial intervention, whether with the campaign register of the reply you gave to Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira. But, in fact, the fact that I have used two records already gives reason to what I said today: that the answers to some questions I have about the European Council of 14 and 15 mix the European current of this week with that which is going to be the Portuguese current until the elections. There are issues relating to the coherence, its, the Socialist Party and who will lead the Socialist Party, of which it is important that the Portuguese have knowledge before they vote on March 10. For example, with regard to the enlargement of the European Union, as we all know, in addition to the complex technical and operational details with which we will have to deal in each case with the candidates, there is a generic concern about defending the rule of law. This is not already behind the Commission's proposal for a conditionality regulation as early as 2021. But I remember that this regulation is kind of a political defeat of its own because, a year earlier, you, after a visit to Viktor Orbán in Hungary, who was discussing this problem of conditionality, said: « The rule of law should not be a criterion for the allocation of European funds ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u208	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u209	And yet, now, the Franco-German report, which I think will also be the basis for this debate, once again propose not only the conditionality regulation but its deepening, its enlargement. So, in consistency, tell me: will you vote against this extension of the conditionality regulation? The Portuguese need to know this before they vote on March 10. Secondly, with regard to voting rules in the European Council, the general rule is that of qualified majority, but there are specific matters in which unanimity is required, including the one mentioned here in the opening of tax matters. You have already been in favour of unanimity in these tax matters — in fact, the Minister for Finance at the time Mr Mário Centeno was very vocal, with regard to the end of unanimity — but a month ago he said probably because he is now interested in negotiating, «we must not accept the rule of unanimity».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u210	For what?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u211	For tax matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u212	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u213	« We must not accept», that is what was quoted. So the question I ask you is, in consistency, where we are staying and how you are going to vote this time. Is it against or in favour of the end of the tax unanimity rule? It's one more thing the Portuguese need to know before they go to vote on May 10. Finally, this enlargement may or may not require revision of the treaties, but it will have to happen here in the House, where each of the parliamentary groups will vote in conscience. I recall the last major treaties that have passed here: the Treaty of Nice in 2001 in which they voted against the CFP and the Left Block ; the Treaty of Lisbon in 2007 in which they voted against the CFP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u214	The Portuguese are not able to vote on the treaties!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u215	I believe that the Portuguese also have the advantage of knowing before they vote, on 10 March, whether the PS, in its current direction or in future direction, will negotiate with these parties who vote against European treaties and who vote against enlargements or needs to adapt the European Union to its future development. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Therefore, in consistency, they will, or will not, re-propose government agreements with these parties. The positions of the Liberal Initiative on these matters are very clear. The PS positions, unfortunately, vary according to the winds. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u216	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u217	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, first confusion: the principle of conditionality is already in force. It was approved unanimously, which means that Portugal voted in favour of the principle of conditionality. It is in force and has our support. If I wonder if it is a good criterion in the European Union, tailor-made criteria for the allocation of funds are invented, I think it is dangerous. Today is the rule of law, tomorrow is the public deficit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u218	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u219	...after tomorrow are the mobility agreements we have with third countries and therefore the best way to respect the rule of law is to comply with the rules of the rule of law and what is in the treaty. That is why, during the Portuguese presidency, when the procedure against Poland and Hungary was opened for violation of the rule of law, it was as provided for in Article 7 of the Treaty. o. A la carte inventions are always dangerous, because one day they are for others, one day they will be for us. And, therefore, when we look at others, we see ourselves always reflected. And so it's worth a lot of caution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u221	Second confusion: what I have said and repeated, still now I have said, is that we must not question the rule of unanimity in foreign policy. The events of the Middle East are, in fact, a good reason for it to be so. Today, we have a great plurality of historical paths, geopolitical visions, of insertion, and in which Portugal looks into the world in a way that is necessarily different from that which would look if, instead of being an Atlantic country, with a history of openness to the world, we were a country enclosed in Central Europe, where they lived all their existence, not with the horizon of the ocean ahead of them, but by the siege of the Ottoman Empire, the Russian Empire, the German Empire, which necessarily gives a different view. I'm not saying that one's vision is better than another's vision. What I am saying is that the diversity of these views requires a lot of dialogue, a lot of negotiation and cannot go without unanimity. Finally, what I have defended in tax matters, and we are a party, is the attempt to create enhanced cooperation which requires at least nine Member States for the approval of the European Parliament so that we can move forward in tax matters, because there is no reason why things should stay as they are. Finally, the future of PS to PS will fit. what I can tell you is the past of the PS that concerns me, and the fact is that we had a first legislature with agreements signed with the Greens Ecological Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, in which I believe none of them sacrificed their identity from their point of view on European politics and the government did not sacrifice a millimetre of the view that it had about the European position of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u222	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the reality has proved that the PS did not want the absolute majority to solve the problems of low wages and low pensions, health, housing, despite having conditions to do so, but wanted this absolute majority to safeguard the interests of the economic groups, with the satisfaction of the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. What this absolute majority leaves are more inequalities and injustices, more difficulties in people's lives, worse public services. The debate on the proposal for a State Budget was still under way, and it was already news that the European Commission had approved it. The Assembly of the Republic still did not know this proposal and the European Union had already determined with which it should be sewn, as if the debate and approval of the Budget, in this House, did not go through a mere formalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u225	The result of submission by the PS government to the European Union, as well as right parties, is well aware of the loss of purchasing power, the degradation of the SNS (National Health Service ) and the public school, the denial of the right to housing or the absence of public day care. It is clear that it is not in the PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal Initiative, or Arrival, that the Portuguese will find an answer to their problems. In fact, these parties are much more focused on meeting those who are the conditionalities of the European Union than on solving problems and improving the lives of people in our country. As regards the revision of the Plurianual Financial Framework, it was done at the expense of those who are the needs, especially in a framework of economic slowdown and concentration of wealth in economic groups, at the expense of the worsening living conditions of the peoples. The high interest rates, which will continue, according to the European Central Bank, as long as necessary, continue to choke thousands of households with housing credit and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. What intervention did the institutions of the European Union have in order to reverse this situation? Why did you refuse to put the bank's profits to bear the interest rates? Is it not intolerable that the bank works EUR 12 million a day, while the house is provided double, and that the wages feed the bank's profits while the families impoverish? The proposal for a revision of the Plurianual Financial Framework, instead of strengthening cohesion policy and structural funds to promote economic development and to solve the problems affecting both workers and peoples, removes their money for militarism and war and to finance the arms industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u226	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u227	Does the government follow this option? If you do not accompany her, not just in words. How will Portugal deal with a possible enlargement without increasing resources for cohesion, how does it seem to take effect, and with a path that could mean the liquidation of cohesion policy, despite all its limitations? What is needed is to increase wages and pensions, support the productive sectors, ensure infrastructure — look, for example, the new Lisbon airport in the Alcochete Shooting Camp, or the bridge between Lisbon and the Barreiro, or even the high-speed rail link – improve public services, protect nature and ensure the sustainable use of natural resources, combat inequalities and asymmetries, promote peace, cooperation and solidarity among peoples. We must end the war and promote peace. End the suffering of the peoples tormented by war, whether in Europe or in the Middle East. Almost 20 000 Palestinians have been killed only in the last two months, as a result of Israel's escalation of aggression against the Palestinian people. We must also not fail to denounce and condemn the conciliatory veto of the United States of America to the resolution of the Security Council calling for a ceasefire. The question is the following: what will the efforts be made to achieve the immediate ceasefire and to comply with the two-State solution — the establishment of the State of Palestine, with capital in Jerusalem, and the borders defined in 1967, in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the United Nations?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u228	Mrs. Deputy, your time has been long gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u229	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. What initiative will the European Union take to recognize the state of Palestine? And now, isn't it time for Portugal to recognize also the State of Palestine? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u230	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u231	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, the honourable Member should reflect a little and perhaps find that the more often the CFP insists that the PS is equal to the PSD, the Liberal Initiative, the CDS and the Arrival, the less the Portuguese believe in the CFP. [[CH's laughs.]] [[PCP protests.]] Because if there is something that the Portuguese have clear in their difference is the profound difference between the PS and the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there is something that the Portuguese have well in mind is the extraordinary change that happened in our country since we came to the page of austerity in 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u232	Exactly! Then the wedding is over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u233	... and what was the governmental experience on the right, and that the right promises again, simply to repeat again—go to the devil— [[At this moment, the speaker struck three times with his hand at the top of the bench.]] ...if the devil on the right appears again in the rule of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u234	He's in there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u235	Mrs. Member, it is very easy for people to understand, because the right means cutting wages, cutting pensions. What the governance of the PS, largely supported by the CFP, until tired, meant an increase in the national minimum wage of 62 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u236	We're already in the campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u237	It means an increase in the average wage by 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u238	The profits of companies tripled!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u239	It meant the full replacement of all pension cuts, the extraordinary increase in pensions, the increase in pensions above inflation. And that is what these years of governance mean, in fact, that they contrast well with what was right-wing governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Every time the PCP tells the Portuguese that we are equal to the right, there are fewer Portuguese to understand the PCP. And I must say, this is a big mistake for the PCP, it's a problem for Portuguese democracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u240	The right has never ruled!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u241	... and it is a problem for the Portuguese left as a whole, because the left is plural, the PS represents the overwhelming majority of the left and center-left, but it is important that the other left currents do not continue to define and that they are able to assert themselves. Now, they do not assert themselves, nor will they ever again affirm themselves, continuing to elect the PS as the main enemy and at the expense of the Socialists' votes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u242	I heard him being serious! I know he's capable!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u243	The honourable Member raises an effectively relevant question: with enlargement, a new look on cohesion policy is needed. That is why, over a year ago, I insist that we need a new architecture for the Community budget. The right started by saying that it was because I didn't like Ukraine, it was "Russian thread", and things like that, and so it wasn't worth worrying about the future. The Liberal Initiative, as you know, believes that one of the country's delay factors is to depend on the Community funds. What I am saying is that we must reinvent the Community funds, because if there is enlargement, cohesion policy will necessarily be confined to the enlargement countries. hence there arises a significant budgetary margin and the need to have another type of funds, much more inspired by the PRR model, where, from a contractual basis, defined by each Member State, on which structural investments and essential reforms are needed for convergence and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u244	Have we ever been against cohesion policies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u245	That is what I have defended, and that is what we have to defend. And the PCP spends time diabolizing things while they exist and, when they are under threat, it starts building a trench about what is disappearing. It has already begun to say that cohesion policy is essential, despite all its limitations. Madam Member, we better start to realize that we have to have an advanced defense before we have to get stuck in the trench, in front of the reality that's changing. Now, reality will change, because enlargement is geopolitically a necessity, it is a moral imperative, and the best thing we have to do is prepare ourselves for this new reality while it is time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u246	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u247	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u248	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u249	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u250	Mr President, I would ask the Bureau to make no mistake about the words of the CFP. We never, at any time, said that PS was equal to PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u251	It's not worth everything! It's not worth everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u252	What we say, and which is proven in the positions these political forces assume, is that, in terms of safeguarding the interests of economic groups, such as the allocation of tax benefits, all these political forces agree. And this is the truth, it is enough to see the vote in the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u253	This is an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u254	When it comes to the protection of workers' rights and the elimination of the serious standards of labour law, all these political forces agree on the rejection of these same proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u255	This is an intervention! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u256	This is honor defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u257	So let's be clear: what we said is that PS, such as PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, are the protagonists of right-wing policy, and the truth is that they do not respond to people's problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u258	There is no central committee on this side!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u259	We now spend the time reserved for the Left Block, having the floor of Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Prime Minister, this will be another European Council which takes place in a context of a severe worsening of the conditions in Gaza, which we have already talked about here, and in fact we cannot fail to point out Antonio Guterres' last attempt to obtain an agreement in the United Nations Security Council for the cessation of fire, which, as we know, has been gross. Gaza currently lives an increasingly unsustainable situation, impossible from a humanitarian point of view, without water, no light, no food, no medicines, practically no hospitals operating and no safe places—even those Israel says they are, would bomb them soon to follow. There is no way to escape at this time in the Gaza Strip. Gaza is today a death camp: it is about 18 000 civilians, mostly children and women. The Gaza Strip is a scene of terror that has generated global dismay, which has led to several calls for ceasefire, including within the European Union, which we have valued, but even with all this, the vote against the United States of America at the last UN Security Council meeting in practice maintains and validates the massacre being done in the Gaza Strip. We cannot therefore continue to accept this situation, which will certainly be the subject of debate at the European Council meeting. Our duty, therefore, is to continue to appeal to a joint diplomatic effort, alongside the UN Secretary-General, to make every effort to stop the fire immediately. And in this effort, Portugal also has an important role to play. This is the call that we have left again — indeed, an important part of this force would be the recognition of the State of Palestine, which, it seems to us, would be an indispensable step towards peace, and, I remember, we have already presented a project in this regard, and we challenge the Government and the Socialist Party to follow us in this matter. Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to address another issue. We know that, at the end of the last week, there has continued to be no agreement on the rules of economic governance, we know that we are again in a debate, which is old, which has divided us over the last few years and now is on the table again, even after these years of suspension of the rules because of the pandemic, but we also know what it can mean to return to this debate and return to these rules: it is the limitation of the Member States' capacity, for example, in their investment choices in public services or in the way public policies are pursued. The pursuit of the deficit and debt targets, which the Government called « certain accounts » has in fact had the consequence that we cannot achieve the appreciation that we need from professionals from various public services. In fact, Mr Medina said at the end of the last week that Portugal was now on the right side of the barricade, but at the same time as he was telling us this, looking at the European side of compliance with the rules, he also told us that the budget surplus cannot be used to respond to the needs of services such as health and education. So I ask: how long will the government want to continue to be called 'the good student of Europe', ignoring the serious consequences of this right here, day by day, in public investment and in public services themselves? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u261	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u262	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, as regards violence that occurs indiscriminately and barbarously against civilian populations and civil equipment in Gaza, we have had a clear condemnation position, as we have condemned without hesitation the terrorist attack of Hamas and we recognize Israel not only the right to defend itself, but also the right to destroy Hamas. Destroying Hamas does not mean destroying Palestine, nor confusing Hamas agents with Palestinians. And therefore we have supported all the efforts of the United Nations, Secretary-General António Guterres, and we have been one of the seven countries of the European Union who voted in this regard at the United Nations General Assembly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the rules of economic governance, Portugal is taking part today with greater calm and will in this debate, but we have not changed our position. It is not because we have finally structurally acquired a budgetary balance today, nor because we are firmly reducing debt at a much higher rate than what would impose on us the budgetary rules, which we are unaware of the need for a revision of the budgetary rules. They must be reviewed, even if we do not have that need for them. In fact, budgetary rules must be reviewed because they are wrong and because, as they have already proved in the past, they generate pro-cyclical dynamics when they have to create the necessary margin for us to have anti-cyclical budgetary policies always and when they are necessary. That is what happened in the period of cover-19 and, unfortunately, we know that crises, not being permanent, are recurrent, so we have to give the European States the margin to be able to adopt these measures whenever they are justified. There must therefore be an agreement on new rules for economic governance. Proposals originating in the Commission were in the right direction, but the positions of several Member States have progressively limited the scope of this review, and this, in our view, is not in favour of the future of European economies. But, Madam Member, there is one thing I would like to emphasize: budgetary surpluses should be used not to pay current expenses, but to pay or structural investments or reserves for days of less economic happiness. To be spending a surplus, which is by conjuncural nature, to pay expenditure which, by nature, is permanent would be a deep budgetary error. What we can say is that we have this budget surplus, we will have a new budget surplus for the year and we will recover a structural balance of budget, despite the huge increase in the salary mass throughout the Public Administration, from now on in the general careers, but also in several special careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u263	Public services are falling apart!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u264	It will be recalled that, in 2018, when we defrosted the teachers' career, the most important thing was not the fact that we were thawed;... [[Protests by the Member of the Christian PSD Ferreira.]] ... was the fact that we were frozen with the guarantee that we would never freeze it again. And the truth is that the career has been frozen, the progression has been accelerated, the time lost has been partially recovered, and yet we are in a position of budgetary balance. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] And in the budgetary balance situation we will remain, despite the agreement we signed last week with the Independent Medical Union, which provides for a significant increase in the salaries of doctors in all their categories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u265	You now have the floor on behalf of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u266	Mr President, I welcome Mr. Prime Minister and I remind you that yesterday's International Human Rights Day was held, so I would like to return to the subject on which you have just spoken, the Israel/Hamas conflict, because, despite Israel's not being in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, it seems to us that more efforts must be made to bring to court the war crimes that have been committed both on the part of Israel and on the part of Hamas. I remember the words of a mother who lost her three children because of indiscriminate Israeli bombings: « There is no safe place during this war in Gaza. Therefore, by the escalation of the conflict, the solution to peace cannot go through the perpetuation of this war in any way. Question : Is Portugal available within the framework of work in the European Union and within the UN to propose the establishment of an international investigation mechanism or a special criminal court, as happened in the former Yugoslavia or in 1994 in Rwanda to ensure accountability for the serious human rights violations we have witnessed? On the other hand, with regard to Ukraine, Trump and the Trumpists have already made their ruins at the key moment in order to contribute to the restoration of peace by blocking the shipment of more than EUR 61 billion. I believe that this issue will also be discussed at the European Council, but I wonder whether the financial support and its coverage will be a topic, what position Portugal will have and what impact this will have on the various Member States, taking into account the high value at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u267	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u268	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, on Gaza, I have already said it twice, but I can repeat once again: we give our full support to what is urgent, i.e. the immediate ceasefire and the establishment of negotiations that enable us to realize what is essential for lasting and just peace in the region, based on the creation of two States, with an effective Palestinian Authority, with Hamas properly exterminated, so that we can have lasting peace in the Middle East, with strict respect for human rights, since human rights cannot be subject to any kind of relativism and it is so demanding respect for human rights when they are violated in Israel, when they are raped in Palestine, when they are violated in Ukraine, when they are violated in Russia, when they are violated in Portugal or anywhere in the world. With regard to European Union financial support for Ukraine, we believe that the first of the priorities in this review of the multiannual financial framework is to ensure the stability and predictability of multiannual financial support for Ukraine, which is today a political sign of the greatest relevance, especially when many fear that a political majority in the United States will be able to compromise US support for Ukraine in the future. Today, in the current geopolitical context, any defeat of Ukraine is a defeat of all Europe and it would also be a defeat of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u270	We cannot allow that defeat. International law must succeed and Russia must be defeated in this violation of international law, because that is the only way we will have a just and lasting peace in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u271	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a special greeting to Mr Capoulas Santos. It is already the second Parliament in which we work together and it has always been a pleasure. Mr Secretary of State, Minister of State, Prime Minister, in this which is probably the last debate we have about Europe, in this legislature, we are going to what is perhaps the origin of our greatest difference on this subject - and we have many things in common - which has to do with the question of the rule of law ; not with the aim itself, but with the methodology that the European Union must follow to ensure that this fundamental value is respected. Mr Prime Minister presented a vision for the dynamics in the European Union in which some States can move forward in integration, while others use their voluntary exclusion capacity from that integration, which could work well if all the actors concerned were of good faith. What we already have in practice in the European Union is the one who puts itself in the most advanced integration not with the aim of making it work, but with the aim of blocking, as we see with the Hungarian case, which is more than obvious, and as we shall now see in the next European Council, precisely in the blockade that makes enlargement. You will not regret Mr Prime Minister, since it is against the use of financial conditionality that he has not taken seriously what he has said several times about Article 7. to be the right instrument to use in relation to Hungary, and not to take it to vote at the European Council, where was it waiting years? Or else, if it is not used, I could say that there is another article in the treaties that only a national government is competent to use, which is Article 259. that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to bring to the Court of Justice of the European Union those who are violating the Treaties. I have a very final question, with a few seconds of tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u273	More? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u274	Nor do you think it is contradictory to your own view — that the Member States that want to go further together — that we are waiting for all the Member States of the European Union to finally recognize the independence of Palestine? Is it not better now to take advantage of the dynamics that is being generated by Spain and Belgium? I tell you that, in Portugal, if there is a left-wing majority in the forthcoming elections, the Free will put on the table the fact that we have to recognize the independence of Palestine, otherwise there is no way to tell fanatics anywhere but there will be no ethnic cleansings or new genocides in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u275	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u276	It is really necessary to have a two-State solution, but for that we cannot recognise only one. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u277	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u278	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I recall that it was during the Portuguese Presidency that the procedures were opened in accordance with Article 7. the, and they must be continued and executed. I have insisted on a very important point: regarding this idea that Hungary will protect Poland and Poland will protect Hungary, these facts are subject to proof, especially after political change in Poland. And there is something else that is essential: we are not only talking about legal matters; we are talking about an eminently political matter. We are questioning whether in a Council vote 26 to 1 is better than a non-vote vote in the European Council, where it is in a nebula of who votes like this or those who vote like this. The bad news, Mr, is that my conviction is that it would not be 26 to 1. But in any case, this vote must be taken and it is not because of Portugal that this vote is not taken. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the future, I think that we must not all be prisoners of each one's will to move forward: those who really want to move forward must do so, and this enlargement framework is an extraordinary opportunity not only to have that enlargement, but also to have that advance. Mr President, if I may use another 10 seconds, I would like to accompany Mr Capoulas Santos, and this is my last intervention in this House of the Republic, not only as Prime Minister, but also as Parliamentary, to say, first of all, that it was a great honour for me to have been elected to the Assembly of the Republic six times. It was an honour to have served here, as a member of the opposition, for six years, to have been here three times as a minister, to answer before the Assembly of the Republic, and to have been in three governments in recent years to which I have had the honour to preside. I would naturally like to congratulate all those who have worked and worked in the Assembly of the Republic, since many of those who were here in 1991 have already achieved their proper reform. I would like to welcome, without exception, all the benches in this Parliament. Of course, Parliament is made of controversy and contradictory, sometimes more alive, sometimes less alive. If, over these years, someone has melded, I mean I didn't intentionally do it; if someone has melded, I must also say that I've forgotten. So what I want to wish for is all the Members and all the Members. Members who will be re-elected in the forthcoming elections are the continuation of good mandates. Those who, like me, will not be re-elected, I also want this to be the first day of the rest of your life and to be so happy in the lives that they will continue as at least we have been in the lives we have lived over these years. To all of us, a great embrace and vows for the continuation of good work. [[P.S., standing, L. and PS.P.D.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u279	on my part, I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister for all the availability he's had for the review... [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] ... by the Assembly of the Republic and by all the solidarity that may exist between the two sovereign bodies — the Assembly of the Republic and the Government. It is before the House that the Government responds politically: Mr Prime Minister has understood well and I must thank him for that. I give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha, to give information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u280	Mr President, it is simply to realize that Mr. João Azevedo Castro attended this session by videoconferencing. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-11.u281	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of the Bureau. The next plenary meeting is on Wednesday, at 3 p.m., with the establishment of the agenda required by the NAP on the theme "animal protection", in which Law Nos 412 / XV / 1 will be discussed in general. a ( PAN) — Approves the scheme of fault justified at work for death or assistance to pet, 456 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the holding and training of pet animals, prohibiting the marketing and use of « shock collars » and « strangulation collars », amending Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October 2001 and 662 / XV/1. a ( PAN) — Recognizes the figure of the Community animal and promotes the realization of an extraordinary campaign to sterilize errant animals, and also draft resolution No 945 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Taking on extraordinary constitutional review powers by the Assembly of the Republic to ensure the consecration of animal protection in the Constitution. In the end, there will be votes. Thank you very much and until Wednesday. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 24 minutes.]]
