ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Good April 25 for all. I declare open the Solemn Session of Good Sales to the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mr. President of the Portuguese Republic, Mr. President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Civil and Military Authorities, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Illustres Guest : Thank you very much for your presence, which enlarges this Solemn Session of Good Sales. Mr. President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, wanted you to include Portugal on the route of the first international contacts you made, as soon as you elected. He honored the President of the Portuguese Republic with a special place and affection in his possession. He agreed to resume the summits between our countries immediately. The results of which have now taken place show the correctness of such a decision. And promptly corresponded to the invitation to give Lisbon the nature and scope of a State visit, the first that you make to Europe. On behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I thank all these gestures of fraternal attention, in them including the very warm form as the Brazilian Congress received in 2022 the President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, who was then able to accompany, and I welcome the intensity of the relationship between the authorities of the two nations, which again makes just the closeness and intimacy of the relationship between the two peoples. The personality that the Brazilians choose as President is always welcome in the Portuguese Parliament, which is proud to have already received four Brazilian presidents in formal session. But to you, President Lula da Silva, it is the second time that we receive, and this increases our joy, because we know the friendship that dedicates to Portugal, because with Brasília it reopens itself to the world, because in itself we recognize the political leader whose social policies have contributed decisively to the reduction of poverty and inequality in Brazil and because in itself we see the statesman who presented himself and won free elections and who, when some tried to invade and overthrow democratic institutions, knew how to defend them without hesitation. [[PS, PCP, BE, and L applause.]] The meeting of the agendas causes this Solemn Session of Goodies to take place on a very important date for Portugal: the date of the celebration of the democratic revolution on 25 April, the day on which, in the streets and in the chest of many Portuguese, and also in the chest of V. Ex., the red nail symbolizes our freedom and the peaceful form as we have achieved freedom. This democratic and peaceful revolution also unites the two countries. In fact, few understood and sang better on April 25 than Chico Buarque of Holland, awarded in 2019 with the Trucks Prize, the prize that, after overcoming the obstacles posed by the preconceived sectarianism, could finally, yesterday itself, receive. [[PSP, PCP, BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]] The portuguese transition of the 70s would also inspire the brazilian transition of the 80s. Since then, the two democracies have been deepening the common alignment around political freedom and pluralism, human rights, the democratic state of law and with a strong social component, the separation of powers, the promotion of inclusive development and the linkage to equality and non-discrimination. We are, therefore, both countries, brothers and sisters for history and brothers for democratic freedom. [[Congratulations from the PS, L, PSD and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Mr. President Lula da Silva, the firmest trace of union is in the many hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people living in Brazil and Brazilians living in Portugal, in the numerous Brazilians of Portuguese descent and in the most frequent Portuguese families of Brazilian origin, in the neighborhoods, in the Luso-Brazilian institutions. It is in people who give life and present to shared history, who realize it in daily life and project it in the future. to the Portuguese, Brazil taught that language is a living thing — the words being said with several accents and flavors, that the world exhibits many colors and palates, that cities can be scored with curved lines, that is vast the horizon and that the dew compensates. Portuguese universities are enriched with their Brazilian students. Portuguese companies have markets and investment in Brazil. It increases the flow of people to all titles and for all reasons, whether between academies either in business or in tourism. And bilateral cooperation between the two countries has created excellent opportunities for mutually beneficial development, and it is done in so many areas, from aeronautics to renewable energies, or in the arts, architecture and law. All of this today we celebrate. On the occasion of the State visit of the President of Brazil and in his presence, the Portuguese Parliament reaffirms the intimate fraternity that unites us to this «Republic of Dreams» sung by Nélida Piñon, not by chance daughter of immigrants, this Brazilian homeland where so many Portuguese have made, accomplished or planned their destination. But the Assembly of the Republic also encourages the two Executives to work more and better on the international scene. The world we ambition, a safe and sustainable world regulated by international law that binds everyone, a multipolar world where each nation has its place, a world governed by multilateral institutions and agendas, committed to peace, development and human rights, a world whose conflicts are contained and arbitrated by a security council to which the presence of new permanent members, including Brazil, print a more panoramic and integrated view, this world needs Portugal and needs Brazil. [[P.S., L. and P.S.P.D.'s applause.]] And it needs right now, now that there is a bloody and dramatic conflict in Eastern Europe, the political and economic effects of which are global. Since the first hour, and like Brazil, Portugal condemns Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Condemning the aggressor, we solidarity with the aggressor, the Ukrainian people, the victim of massacres and ruthless and barbaric destruction. We support Ukraine in the fight for independence and territorial integrity. The red nail that today celebrates our freedom also symbolizes freedom for the Ukrainians today to fight. [[PS, PSD, IL, PAN and L applause.]] We believe that it is urgent to exchange weapons for political-diplomatic conversations that put an end to the conflict and safeguard the legitimate interests in the presence. We really need to talk more about negotiations and fewer battles. The condition is simple and depends only on the Russian Federation: it is the aggressor to cease hostilities and withdraw from the sovereign country that invaded. [[PS, PSD, PAN, L, standing, and IL applause.]] As a member of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, Portugal participates in actions to defend international law, European security and Ukrainian independence. Do so in full awareness that this is not a regional but global issue, and therefore it is important to talk about it with all the relevant countries, the North or the South, the West or the East. It is therefore very useful that it is a topic in the ongoing dialogue between Portugal and Brazil and that, by continuing — Portugal and Brazil — their own foreign policies, they can converge in favour of peace. Europe needs Brazil. And Brazil has the support of the Portuguese Parliament in strengthening political, economic and commercial ties with the European Union. The conclusion of the agreement with Mercosur neither lost relevance nor lost opportunity. I can guarantee the commitment of the Assembly of the Republic within its powers to this end. The agreement between the European Union and Mercosur has an economic scope, but it also has a geopolitical scope and, as such, should be considered. A word for action for the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ). This community is no longer only an intergovernmental organization of political-diplomatic dialogue and cooperation based on the common language. The community is also an area of people's movement and wants to develop an economic pillar, defining a new scale for trade and investment. With his return to the Palace of the Planalto, President Lula, a new opportunity opens up for Brazil to participate with the other CPLP members, in an effort to make our community more and more alive and stronger. [[PS, PSD, PAN and L applause.]] Mrs. Presidents, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, the most profound link between Portugal and Brazil is the common language. The language and the literature in it express themselves and which constantly recreate it, thus offering us a particular way of understanding ourselves, of setting ourselves up and understanding the world. Undisturbed, imaginative, disassembly, as well as we can see two universal writers, who cultivate as few the Portuguese language: Fernando Pessoa and Clarice Lispector. People and Lispector were, at the same time, creators and characters of various worlds, of the circumstances in which they became Brazilian born in Ukraine, he partially formed Lisboa in South Africa, and of the other times who knew how to forge, with his genius, loneliness and boldness. For I want to borrow Clarice Lispector the title of the collection of chronics that has just been published in Lisbon : The Discovery of the World. I need that title, because the world exists to be discovered. To find out, to us, discovering it, to him. Of course, as Alberto Caeiro's poetry has shown so well, the world always exists before we discover it. It's there before we see it. But he sees what makes us. Discovering it is that we have discovered our being. Discover the world, discover the plurality of the universes that exist and discover the new worlds that we all go, in greater or less harmony, building. Dear President Lula da Silva, we, the Portuguese, like to think that, being Europeans, we are always designed for the immensity of the world, for the permanent discovery of the world. Now, the Portuguese discovery of the world begins in the vast Atlantic, which connects three continents and which, in times, attracted a stone jangada. Start on the other edge of the Atlantic. The Portuguese discovery of the world begins in Brazil. [[PSP, L, standing, PSD, standing members, BE, PAN and members present at the Bureau.]] Thank you very much. I now give the word to whom much honours us with his presence on this day, the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PSD Members and members of the Bureau applauded.]] [[At the moment, the CH Members have stood up and displayed posters with the phrases 'Failure of corruption' and 'The place of thief is in prison' and with the flag of Ukraine, thus remaining throughout the intervention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u2	H.E. Mr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Portuguese Republic, H.E. Mr. António Costa, Prime Minister of the Portuguese Republic, H.E. Mr. Augusto Santos Silva, President of the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, H.E. Mr. João Pedro Caupers, President of the Institutional Court of the Portuguese Republic, My dearest Wife, Janja, Mr. Ambassador Mauro Vieira, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Brazil, on behalf of whom I congratulate all the Brazilian Ministers present here, Mr. Senator Rodolfo Rodrigues, Leader of the Government of Congress, on behalf of whom I honour the Brazilian Parliamentarians present at this event, Mrs. Party leaders, ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentarians, Companions and Companions : It was with great joy that I received the invitation of President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa to carry out this State visit to Portugal, coincident with the celebrations of 25 April. In recent days, I have had here in Portugal the unmistakable feeling of being at home, a feeling that, I believe, is shared by all Brazilians who visit Portugal and all Portuguese who visit Brazil. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L, standing, and PSD Members with standing members and members of the Bureau.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u3	The gentlemen. Members who wish to remain at the Plenary Session must deal with the urbanity, courtesy and education that is required of any representative of the Portuguese people. That's enough! No more insults! Enough to degrade the institutions! No more shame on the name of Portugal! [[PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN, L, stand up.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] There were demonstrations of public protest in the galleries. [[Fascists!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u4	On 25 April it allowed Portugal to make a real leap for the future. The movement initiated by the Captains of April, exactly 49 years ago, reconquered civil liberties, political participation of citizens, political democratization, labor rights and free trade union organization, creating the basis for economic development with social justice. That is what we are remembering and celebrating today. on the other side of the Atlantic, we Brazilians witnessed, with admiration and hope, the Revolution of Cravos giving rise to a vibrant parliamentary democracy, with the impressive political and social achievements achieved since then. The success of our Portuguese brothers showed us that soon it would be our Brazilian turn to begin our journey towards the reconquest of freedom and democracy. While in Portugal, the repressive apparatus was dismantled from 1974 onwards, we in Brazil still faced political prisons, kidnappings and murders of workers, journalists and militants, perpetrated by the dictatorship. Chico Buarque, whose unequal poetic sensitivity we were finally able to honor yesterday at the ceremony of giving up the Trucks Prize, portrayed this moment in the song So Much Sea, of 1975, which says: « I wanted to be at the party, pa/ With your people/ And pick up personally/ A flower of your garden/ I know that there are leagues to separate us / So much sea/ I know also how necessary, pa/ Navigating, sailing. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] [[Chiu!]] [[Chiu!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u5	The song Grândola, Vila Morena, by José Afonso, also packed our fight in Brazil. Gradually, we have expanded the participation of the people in politics. Step by step, revitalizing the trade union movement, we built a grassroots party, closed the military governments, promulgated our "Citizen Constitution", held the first direct election for president after 29 years and then elected the first president of working origin from Brazil and the first president, woman, from our country. Still, democracy in Brazil has recently experienced moments of serious threat. Surprising of authoritarianism tried to delay our watch in 50 years and reverse the freedoms we have gained since the democratic transition. The attacks were constant. The Portuguese brothers watched everything, worried about the possibility that Brazil would turn its back on the world. Friends and Friends, the news I bring them is that the Brazilian democratic forces have demonstrated their strength and resilience. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L, PSD Members and Members present at the Bureau]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] I have traveled the world to find our partners and have reaffirmed that Brazil we have always known has returned to the international scene. A country that does not accept that its people go hungry and that is aware of its responsibility for global food security, for the diversity and size of its natural resources. A country that recognizes environmental protection as one of the greatest contemporary challenges and that resumes its trajectory of strong commitment to sustainable development and the coping of the climate crisis. A country prepared to contribute to the global energy transition, thanks to a majority renewable matrix and huge potential for growth in clean energy. A country committed to reducing inequalities in all its dimensions, combating racism and gender-based violence and protecting our native peoples. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L, PSD Members and Members present at the Bureau]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the world has faced multiple crises in the last two decades. We have seen the rise of extremist ideologies, driven by the dictatorship of algorithms. They reduce the space for dialogue and empathy, spread hatred and hinder the expression of our humanity. We have seen the increase in inequality, poverty and hunger. The climate crisis has worsened. More recently, we had to face the pandemic of covid-19 and, in parallel, we were attacked by anti-science viruses and contempt for human life. In Brazil, we live the tragic consequence of negationist demagogues during the pandemic. Seven hundred thousand people died, victims of the coward. Half of these deaths could be avoided, not the fake news, the delay in obtaining vaccines and the denial of science made by the far right of my country. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE, L, PS, standing, PCP, PAN and members present at the Bureau.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] [[Chiu!]] [[Chiu!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u6	Here, in Europe, demagogues politicians who say they are not politicians deny the benefits gained on the continent in decades of peace, cooperation and development within the European Union. I consider the integration resulting from the European Union a democratic heritage of humanity. [[PSP, BE, L, PCP, PAN, PSD Members and members of the Bureau]] And I saw and lived, in Brazil, the tragic consequence that always happens when politics is denied and dialogue denied. My Friends and Friends, we have witnessed, in the world, the increase in geopolitical tensions. This constellation of challenges compels us to join forces. I've talked a lot to our Portuguese brothers in the last three days. Of all I have received words of solidarity and encouragement. Everyone is grateful for the unconditional support and fraternity they have shown to Brazil. Portugal is the oldest drawing on the map of Europe. A country with nine centuries of history has much to teach the world. I return here to the example of 25 April. The Revolution of Cravos not only marks the beginning of Portugal's journey towards freedom and democracy. It also marks the end of Portugal's trajectory as colonial power. April 25 shows us that a military policy that confronts a people fighting for freedom can never defeat it. It can at most prolong the conflict indefinitely and thus make more expensive the inevitable correctness of accounts with its own population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u7	Anyone who believes in military solutions to the current problems fights the winds of history. No solution to any conflict, national or international, will last if it is not based on political dialogue and negotiation. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause and members present at the Bureau.]] Brazil understands the apprehension caused by the return... [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] [[Get out! I'm ashamed!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u8	Brazil understands the apprehension caused by the return to war in Europe. We condemn the violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. [[PS, PSD, BE, PAN, L and members' applause at the Bureau.]] We believe in an international order based on respect for international law and the preservation of national sovereignty. At the same time, we must admit that war cannot go on indefinitely. Every day the fighting continues, it increases human suffering, loss of life and destruction of homes. Food and energy crises are problems all over the world. We were all affected somehow by the consequences of the war. We need to talk in peace. To achieve this goal, it is essential to take the path through dialogue and diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the Portuguese, we Brazilians have made an absolute commitment to multilateralism. This commitment forces us to recognize that the tools of global governance have proved inadequate to meet the current challenges. The United Nations Security Council is virtually paralyzed. This is because its composition, determined at the end of World War II, 78 years ago, does not represent the correlation of forces in the contemporary world. We therefore advocate a reform which results in the enlargement of the Council, so that all regions are represented on a permanent basis so as to make it more representative in their deliberative and effective process in the implementation of their decisions. [[P.S., BE, and L.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] [[Chiu!]] [[Chiu!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u9	We are renewing the diplomatic tradition of Brazil and renewing our commitment to multilateral institutions. We support the input of CPLP as an observer member of the Ibero-American Conference, an initiative that approaches two important areas of dialogue and dialogue. In addition, we remain committed to moving forward in the Treaties on the Agreement between Mercosur and the European Union, creating even more robust links between our two regions. I know this new journey we're starting won't be easy. But Brazil, like Portugal, is an obstinacy country. Obstinate for peace, obstinate for justice, obstinate for social inclusion, obstinate for freedom. [[PSP, PCP, BE, L, PSP Members and members of the Bureau applauded.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]] [[Chiu!]] [[Chiu!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u10	on this new journey, I have the satisfaction of being able to count on the support of the Portuguese brothers, with whom we will continue to walk, proudly together, in favor of the construction of a more just, freer and more prosperous world. May God bless Portugal and bless Brazil. Long live freedom and democracy and not political fascism! [[PSP, PCP, BE, L, standing, PSD, standing Members, the PAN and the members present at the Bureau.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me formally ask you, on behalf of the Portuguese Parliament, to apologize for the incident and thank you for the courage and education you have shown. [[PSP, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause standing, and members present at the Bureau.]] [[At the moment, the CH Members have re-showed the posters previously displayed.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u12	This is a shame for Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u13	He's a thief!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-25.u14	The Solemn Session of Good Sales is closed to the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil. [[It was 10 hours and 45 minutes.]]
