ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. For the reading of the file, I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 955 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 957 and 958 / XV / 2. a ( PAN ), which fall to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u3	Let's start the agenda. The first point is the assessment of the annual report on the activities of the Ombudsman on 2022, under Article 239. the Rules of Procedure. To intervene, you have the floor on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a state of democratic law, the Ombudsman is a fundamental body in the defence and promotion of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens, ensuring the justice and legality of the exercise of public powers. Thus, the reports of the Ombudsman, presented annually and discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, are an important tool for the control and monitoring of the Executive's activity and serve as a reflection of the reality that this socialist government is trying so hard to mask. An analysis of the Ombudsman's 2022 report shows that there is an area of particular concern for the Liberal Initiative: the relationship between Public Administration and citizens. We have an opaque, inaccessible public administration that does not respond agilely and timely to people's needs. Today, when we talk about Public Administration, we cannot talk about efficiency or speed, because there is no ability of the various public services to act together. At the hearing of the Ombudsman, it became clear how dramatic the situation is. The poor functioning of the Public Administration is general and transversal to all areas of action, the result of excessive bureaucracy in this sector. And the picture is so depressing that the Ombudsman itself has no capacity to process in a timely manner the various individual complaints that are presented. It shouldn't be like that. We cannot normalize or ignore that the number of complaints that widely denounce the performance of the Public Administration increases from year to year, which is revealing the state to which we have arrived. The Liberal Initiative argues that it is the State that should be at the service of people, not people at the service of the State, and therefore it is urgent for this Parliament to debate the inevitable reform that the Public Administration needs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is the only problem we can point out; but it is not: 31 % — 31 % — that is the value of the complaints presented regarding the performance of social security. And can we be surprised? We all had to resort to social security, or we knew someone who needed it. "Morosity" and "access problems", these are the expressions that characterize our social security system, and it is not the Liberal Initiative that says so, that is what we have discussed in the report. As for access to justice, everyone knows what is the reality of our courts. Since the delay in requests for judicial support to a slow and expensive justice, the problems are evident and contribute to the imbalance that measures the values of justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party's model of justice has failed, and today what we have is a country without justice. “ Get used to it! », that is what we heard from our Prime Minister. That's what we have, but that's not what we want. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u5	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the annual report of the Ombudsman on 2022, as well as the Ombudsman's report as a national mechanism for the prevention of torture. These reports are very well structured, as, moreover, they have been taken over by this Ombudsman, and they give us a faithful portrait of the malfunction of public services. In reading the reports, we see that the multiple complaints already referred to in previous years' reports remain, which well demonstrates the incompetence and unwillingness of the government to correct and do better. The delays in the allocation of social benefits, including social security and the National Pension Centre, persist and worsen, seriously endangering the most vulnerable groups, which is absolutely unacceptable. The government fails with the most fragile and unprotected, with the elderly and with the disabled, and here it could not fail nor miss, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]] The report tells us of a sad reality, which is known. I give two examples: the pensions applied for in 2016, which only in January 2023 were allocated, seven long years later, or the request for re-evaluation of an old-age pension calculation made in 2017, which was only corrected in 2022, five years later, and still were attributed only after the intervention of the Ombudsman. How did these people survive all these years, while they waited and despaired for the State to fulfill its obligations? Who paid their bills? The government also continues to severely harm our immigrants, people who have lived a working life outside their country, away from the land and family, because when they finally return to Portugal, they hinder the serious delays in the communication of the National Pension Centre with foreign congeners, causing delays of years in the calculation and allocation of pensions. The Ombudsman, when she was heard in 1. the Commission, clearly said that laxity, the lack of coordination between public services and communication problems are a constant, that the problem is not of bad law or lack of them, the problem is the malfunction of the Public Administration, and that what hurts most - these were the words of the Ombudsman - the rights of people are the bad service and the malfunction of public services. We have a government unable to effectively manage public services, and every passing day, the degradation of services increases and the damage of citizens as well. We must not forget that these delays have cost the public record with the payment of interest on a late date and with the unnecessary mobilization of the means of justice, overloading taxpayers, who are paying more and more taxes and have worse services. Turning now to the report of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, we see that it reflects the great concern about the lack of conditions in prisons, educational centres and temporary centres of foreigners and similar spaces, especially because the complaints and repairs previously referred to in all these matters are kept, which is deplorable and demonstrates the inertia of this government. Prisons are still overcrowding, and the Portuguese State continues to add sentences to the European Court of Human Rights because of the outrageous and degrading conditions to which its prisoners are subject. Lack of occupational activities, education, vocational training and work, with obvious damage and impact on social reintegration. There is a lack of programmes to prevent recurrence and many human resources are lacking, and the lack of prison guards is not limited to the issue of security, and also has a strong impact on the basic activities and routines of prisons and prison guards themselves and their families. There are also no conditions in educational centres, which has been systematically denounced, showing the abuses of the law and the violation of the fundamental rights of children and young people who are in custody and under the responsibility of the State, without it fulfilling its responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u8	... leaving them without the necessary law education, disengage them in a prison without protection, without even having access to mental health care, denying them the necessary support to have a future condition. It is enough to protect these children, the state has to do a lot more! [[PSD applause.]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the fact that these reports highlight: in more than eight years of governance, the results presented by the Government are frankly bad. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u9	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ombudsman's report is not, in fact, merely a formality, it contains information on the problems affecting citizens, complaints about actions and omissions from public authorities, and should therefore correspond to decision-making. Three general and transversal problems that deserve reflection are identified immediately. It refers to Morosity, whether in access to social rights, such as the attestation of multi-use incapacity, or the allocation of social support, such as family allowance—and often complaints are received in this sense—either in requests for nationality or procedures relating to entry into national territory, with hopes that they are years. Another outstanding problem is the lack of linkage between public services, which implies problems that go hand in hand, without being solved, or even lack of effective response to problems. Another aspect is communication with citizens, whether more general, addressed to the general public, with the aim of information and dissemination, whether in terms of lack of effective concrete communication with each citizen. And here we wanted to highlight the difficulty that older people have in accessing digital media and, so many times, the insensitivity of the Administration, in its relationship, with regard to this, which also contributes to exclusion. The identification, then, of these three problems has to do with questions that, cross-sectionally and repeatedly, appear in the analysis of the complaints made. The report addresses 13 thematic areas, and it would therefore be impossible, in the time devoted to this debate, to raise such information of great relevance. We therefore highlight some issues that have concrete solutions. In the context of environmental impact assessments, I stress the difficulty of access by the citizen to information and the inadequacy of its mechanisms of participation. The CFP has repeatedly raised this issue, requiring a new model that does not despise public consultation, among other amendments. There are various difficulties concerning special education and inclusive education and also difficulties relating to the lack of non-teaching staff, two issues which we have brought to Parliament successively and which have been subsequently ignored. Another huge problem is that of immigrant citizens in the dialogue with state services, which makes the residence permit process a real martyrdom, as well as renewal or related rights, such as family reunification, another issue that needs urgent resolution. We also have the drama of housing, in particular of social housing, with the emphasis of communications due to situations of imminent eviction or homeless situations. This calls on each individual to be aware of how the welfare of the market entity and bank profits are repeatedly placed above the necessary measures. We have the degradation of the prison system, the lack of support for social reintegration. We have a justice that is not within the reach of all, with access to insufficient law and judicial sponsorship. Finally, in the field of work, there is not only the persistence of discrimination and injustice, highlighting the situation of conservatives and registrar officers, as well as various career problems at the level of Public Administration, but also the question of precariousness, which weakens the worker and exposes him to violation of rights, or also issues related to health at work. In short, and to conclude, for the CFP, there are conclusions to be drawn. These conclusions should not be the regret, but the demand for action: to provide public services with means for their missions, to admit new workers and, as a condition for this, to give dignity to public administration careers, all options that require a break with the current direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u11	The CFP's Parliamentary Group has a credit, which I will take to the next item on the agenda. To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot expect the Ombudsman's report to show us anything other than the problems of the Public Administration that need to be solved. Withdrawing from that would be unnecessary greater public services, because this report is supposed to be a look at the problems precisely and help us to focus on what needs to be improved. In view of this, the repeated mention in certain areas is very worrying. The fact that the public administration, the lack of coordination between public services and communication with citizens are three repeatedly mentioned concerns tells us that more and better public administration is needed, more and better public services are needed. Basically, there is a need for more state, because it is more State that can guarantee effective access to rights. We would like to mention seven brief questions on which we believe that attention should be paid to what is said by the Ombudsman. Question No 1: Social security. It is identified as one of the areas where modernization has not arrived. Delays and difficulties in access to social security services are an effective obstacle to basic social rights and often social protection. In the case of the National Pension Centre, which is one of the services identified, may lead to very significant delays in the allocation or recalculation of pensions. Question No 2 : domestic violence. In particular, the relationship between IHRU (the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation) — which should provide low-cost rental fires — and the entities dealing with victims with the status of domestic violence, which often means that these victims do not have access to these houses, as the protocol provides. Question No 3 : Foreign service. Delays in acceptance of expressions of interest and also nationality proceedings, in which the average time limit for overall analysis of applications is, as a rule, more than two years. Question No 5 : Social housing. On this point, I do not have to repeat the situation that we all know and that the report realizes. Question No 6 : delays in certificates of multi-use disability. It is also a matter that has been dealt with here, in the House, and that the Ombudsman has reiterated as one of the major problems. Question No 7, and I end with this: one of the reasons why Portugal continues to appear in human rights rankings, not for the best reasons, is because of the lack of conditions of educational centres, temporary reception centres and, above all, prisoners in Portugal, with lack of access to health, lack of social and economic support regulations, lack of social reintegration measures and vocational training. Above all this we need a closer look. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u13	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: The report of the activities of the Ombudsman, whom we have already thanked, ends up giving us a picture of the country. This is a portrait that brings us not only the deep vulnerability that some people are subject to—from then on people in homeless situations, whose number increased by 78 % in four years—and also brings us more numbers related to social housing applications, lease subsidies, complaints from elderly people without social support network or single-parent families who do not have the conditions to bear the values of income they practice. These are people who have resorted to the Ombudsman's Office because they can't get any response, either by the government or by the municipalities. The conclusion we come to is that, by the way, those who have the power to deal with this matter seem to live well with it. The delay or failure in pension and social benefits processes attributed by Social Security remains a matter of great concern, not only last year, but repeatedly, because we have people who sometimes wait for due benefits for two years. All this, coupled with complaints about the lack of family doctors, the inadequacy of the public network in pre-school education, the insufficiency in the ability to signal and forward victims of domestic violence and also the protection in situations of vulnerability and social emergency, in a country with black figures as regards violence against women and, in particular, a gender-based violence that has the female face, is absolutely unacceptable and is the portrait of our country. Just to finish, we regret that the issue of animal welfare has been left out of this report, unlike previous years, because this scourge — both of the ill-treatment and of the increase in the cost of living of families — has not ended, quite the contrary, has also worsened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u15	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u16	Mr President of a number of seats, Ms. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the preparation of this report, which bears witness to all the annual work done by the Ombudsman's Office in defence of the interests and rights of citizens. The intervention of this State body covers 13 sectors. I'm going to focus on justice and internal security. In this regard, Mrs Provedora referred to two issues that particularly concern us: the extinction of the SEF ( Service for Foreigners and Borders ) and the situation in prison and educational establishments. Talking about the SEF is about its extinction, and Mrs. Provedora was careful to publish a report exclusively devoted to this matter, in which she draws attention to the current situation of an SEF at the end of the line and faces a particularly difficult transition period to AIMA ( Agency for Integration, Migration and Asylum ). The report alerts the serious constraints on the functioning of the SEF, either in the service or in the decision of requests, either in contact with the interested parties, to which it adds the situation noted by Ms. Provider, on the occasion of a visit to the contact centre of the SEF, in January 2023, where it was informed that only schedules were being made until March, on the basis of the extinction of the SEF. on that date, the extinction of the SEF was expected by the end of March. What now? Did the schedules not pass from March to early October, since, supposedly, the end of this month is the end of extinction? Nobody knows. The Ombudsman made a set of important recommendations to be implemented by AIMA. Our doubt is equivalent to that of Mrs Provedora, which is whether AIMA is equipped with the human resources appropriate to these new tasks. This doubt prevails. Every day we realize that the SEF has been fundamental to avoiding human trafficking networks or preventing terrorists from entering the country. We still recently learned that in 2015 he demanded the expulsion of the terrorist who was illegal in Portugal and that a court avoided, causing Europe to disappear outside, committing a terrorist attack. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is one of the dangers of the extinction of the SEF: that the government, with the policy of open doors and of having to receive all of us with open arms, has lost control over those who arrive in our country. Who is it? Where do you come from? What are you doing? For the Socialist Government, they are all equal: illegal or not, with a contract of work or to live on the street, come with good or bad intentions. What's important is that they come! It is this extremism of the Socialist Party that we condemn. They were the bad vices of an agreement with the extreme left that left the same extreme left implanted within the Socialist Party, with faces here in this Parliament and also in the television debates. The extinction of the SEF is the biggest political error in this government and questions the security of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u17	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u18	If one day there is a terrorist attack in Portugal, it is a shame — shame from all of us! — and the guilty are clear and are in sight of all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With regard to the extinction of the SEF, Mrs Provedora wrote in the report, and I quote: "[...] one cannot fail to record the fact that such a profound and far-reaching reform has not been preceded by an extended public debate. Indeed, the decision was announced without being known studies or reports to demonstrate the added value of the division of border control and criminal investigation functions by GNR, PSP, and PJ. » We couldn’t agree more. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the report of the national prevention mechanism and the situation of prisons and educational establishments, the average occupancy rate of prisons exceeds 100 %. You've heard well, it's over 100 %! The vast majority are in a situation of overcrowding. The Minister of Justice fails and is a total inertia. Promises behind promises, make it happen after making happen, but what happens is nothing! Justice in Portugal does not work. It's in everybody's sight. Justice doesn't work! Mrs Provedora's report and alerts are clear. In fact, this report reflects the total failure of socialist policies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u19	To speak by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u20	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, I would like to point out that this report is a key piece for deepening the relationship between citizens and administration. An administration that focuses on the citizen and on his concerns and concerns, which pays great attention to the complaints that citizens make about how it works. This report is therefore always a starting point for the eyes of the different governments, because this means putting people in the centre of administration. The second message I want to leave in this debate is that, because we have these characteristics, this report deserves the greatest attention, the greatest respect and the greatest consideration for our work, because this is how we deal with all the documents of a body whose mission is to defend the fundamental rights of citizens, especially when they are prejudiced by unfair or illegal acts of government or public authorities. So the first message that I also wanted to leave to the opposition is that we realize that we are drawing on something that is useful to measure the administration's relationship with the citizen to make a government accountable. But one fact that has been omitted in this debate, and I understand why, is that more than half of the complaints that are reported to the Ombudsman, 53 %, are filed by replacement of the legal situation. This is the fact that all oppositions, concerned with the rights of the citizen, cannot see in this debate, since they prefer to excite ghosts, prefer to exacerbate the failure,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...but they do not recognize that more than half of the complaints that have been made have been resolved, because legality has been restored. Therefore, I would also like to point out that this report corresponds to a new organic organisation of the Ombudsman, and we all remember the many hearings we had here, with regard to this report, where there was a lack of means and difficulty in meeting two requirements: on the one hand, the special duty of welcoming the Ombudsman, which is a constitutional imposition; on the other hand, the need to ensure an adequate response in a timely manner. We have seen that this amendment meets these objectives and we want to see this dimension, which seems very relevant to us. Then, still on the report itself, and not having time to refer to all matters, I would also like to say that we see transversal problems, which are, in particular, laziness, the lack of coordination between public services and bad communication with the citizen. We see here a repair, knowing that the Provider also has an own-initiative power and that statistical information could also reflect this dimension. Then I wanted to mention something that has not been said or mentioned: the number of complaints and exposures addressed to the Ombudsman falls to pre-pandamia levels prior to the covid-19 pandemic, below the 2020 and 2021 register. This is another fact that it is selectively concealed by all the oppositions in this debate and which is contained in this report. Still about this dimension of morosity, interoperability and articulation between public services, also meant that the Socialist Party has always had a design, and this design translates into the interoperability of administration. In fact, whenever we analyze the history of administrative modernization measures in this country, we see that since 1999 — when they are implemented by the hands of a socialist government called António Guterres — the opposition was able to contribute to the design of this country's administrative modernization once! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u21	Keep going. It's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u22	At other times, it was the Socialist Party that advanced in this area. Without surprise, it is also because of making this history of the past and projecting it for the future that we only have in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), in the dimension for the digital transformation of the Public Administration and for greater interoperability, about 578 million euros planned for this area. That is why this is to honor the past at the same time as the future is projected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u23	Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u24	I would also like to say that we are most concerned about what is mentioned in the report of the national prevention mechanism, in particular one aspect which has already been underlined by the PSD, with regard to the four convictions of the Portuguese State in the Court of Human Rights concerning the prison system, in particular the poor conditions of dignity given to its inmates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u25	What about the prison guards? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u26	This is a cause for great concern for us and it is important that they be addressed. I would also like to say that we have also seen the extreme right, without surprises, in this debate, to raise the pope and a great insecurity about the extinction of the SEF, the surveillance of the borders and the new Agency for Administrative Modernization. Of course, this reform has a humanist design and does not scare us away from it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u27	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u28	But I also want to reaffirm that on the 29th day this new agency will start working. We will be careful and will always strengthen the solutions, to respond to the Ombudsman's recommendations and to achieve this dimension of reception. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Police and GNR ( Republican National Guard ) will continue to defend the borders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u29	You don't defend!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u30	...to secure our borders, no matter how scary, no matter how afraid they arise, because we know how they relate in public space: it's through fear and that's how your supporters are motivated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u31	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u32	But we say 'no' to fear and our plan is really hope. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u33	You live in a closed condominium and work in the Assembly of the Republic! If you lived in the real country, you'd understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u34	To intervene, on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares is inscribed, no one else. Continuation of protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão. No one else is registered to take the floor, Mr. We cannot take the floor in this Parliament without asking for it, without registering it and without the word being given.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u35	Aparts are regimental!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u36	Apart from these are no interventions, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u37	I didn't do any intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u38	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u39	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Dear Citizens, particularly young people in the galleries, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister : At the end of this debate, I have two brief notes to mention. The problems caused by the slow functioning of the State in Portugal have often been mentioned here in the lives of all citizens. The State must realize that, when it is failing, it cannot continue to demand from citizens what it requires when it is not failing. Today we will vote on the approved version in the Health Committee of a Free Project, which tells us something very simple: while there are delays in medical boards, multi-purpose certificates cannot lose their validity. This is of the most fundamental justice. It is the State that is failing, so it cannot penalize people. The other very brief note has to do with something that is said to us in the report: 78 % of the young interns were already identified in the protection system for children and young people. This is a very large proportion of people we have not been able to protect — by the way, when they were already identified — so that they would not have been hospitalized. If the State does more, in a more comprehensive way, in education and monitoring since people's first childhood, it will actually be saving money, because it is always much more expensive to solve the problems later. But that is not how we should look at the problem. We weren't even spending any more money! For these people, it is the difference between a life that can be realized and flourishing and a life that perpetuates the cycles of misery and violence that we know. So let's not get more expensive! It is the definition of a responsible community that takes account of its most vulnerable from the beginning. But in fact, given that we find it cheaper to invest more in the first childhood, to avoid, then, investing in problem solving, it is inexcusable that this continues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u40	So we end the first item on our agenda and we move on to the second item, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 87 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the support measures for Olympic, Paralympic and high-performance sports practitioners after the end of their sports career and 94 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime of the integrity of sport and the fight against anti-sport behaviors, and of the Bill No. 942 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates harassment as a disciplinary infringement under the legal regime of sports federations and provides for the creation of channels for reporting infringements of standards of defense of sport ethics, and also of Resolution Projects Nos 932 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures that impact high-level athletes and 935 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Consecrate on September 26 as the national day of the paralympic athlete. To present the bills, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are starting the debate on two government proposals that strengthen two strategic pillars in the field of sport, which are the sport truth and the high performance. The defence of sports truth has been a priority of government action, a path with solid steps, which it is important to remember. The first step was taken in September 2022, when the Dopagem Analysis Laboratory recovered international certification from the World Anti-Doping Agency. This conquest has contributed to the strengthening of international confidence in the national sports system and, along with the strengthening of the financial resources of the Anti-Doping Authority of Portugal, has enabled the policy of anti-doping in our country to be consolidated. A second step was taken with the new legal regime of sports societies, which was in force just over a month ago. The new scheme determines eligibility requirements for qualified investors, administrators and managers, and sets aside conflicts of interest for the exercise of the same functions; the new scheme requires proof of economic capacity to the investor, as well as proof of the legal origin of the capital to be invested; the new scheme provides transparency rules for the holders of social participations and defines advertising standards for the acts of management of the sports society. The new legal regime of sports societies is undoubtedly a significant step forward in defending the integrity of sport. The third step now emerges: with the proposed law now under discussion, the Government proposes the reform of the legal system of the integrity of sport, with emphasis on the creation of the platform for the treatment of the manipulation of sports competitions. We know the multiple threats to sports truth and all deserve equal combat, but one of the greatest threats to the integrity of competitions is the manipulation of results, through betting and betting. In 2022, the total volume of sports betting to the territorial and online base quota amounted to very close to EUR 2 billion, an amount that has nearly doubled since 2019 and which reflects an increasing threat. Some cases show us that a set of modalities have been achieved by this scourge, which leads us to strengthen investment in the means of prevention and combating manipulation. Let us remember the case « Double Game », the most mediatic one, which has reached the second league of professional football and has aroused the political will to create a platform against the manipulation of sports evidence. Let us also remember the case of the Portuguese referee who, in May last year, was banned from tennis. Let us also bear in mind the scandal of illegal betting, which in recent days has shaken the Italian case—yes, this is a threat to the international level; yes, this is a cross-sectional threat to various collective and individual modalities. The requirement requirements should be general for all modalities, although it is fair to recognize the work of a set of sports federations in the fight against match fixing, especially for the Portuguese Football Federation. This national platform will have as its main mission the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions, will function with the Judicial Police ( PJ ) and will be coordinated by the Director of the National Combat Unit to the Corruption of the PJ. It will be constituted by the Attorney-General of the Republic, Judicial Police, National Anti-Corruption Mechanism, Commission for the Coordination of Policies for Prevention and Combating the Laundering of Captains and the Financing of Terrorism, Regulatory and Inspection of Tourism Games of Portugal, Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon, Portugal Olympic Committee ( COP ) and Portuguese Football Federation. The platform for handling the manipulation of sports competitions is the greatest advance in combating anti-sport behaviour and corruption in sport, in line with what is being done in many European countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second proposed law under discussion reflects the government's commitment to high sports performance. Support for the course of a high-performance athlete has been ensured since compulsory education through an innovative and pioneering programme in Europe which invests in dual careers. The 25 high-income units in the school, from Mirandela to Faro, allow the reconciliation of the academic career with the sports career to 1400 students-athletes of 55 modalities, an investment that can reach 1 million euros with the implementation of these units in higher education, as proposed by the State Budget for 2024, and which has greatly contributed to the international affirmation of a young generation of sportsmen who win countless and historic international titles. The special scheme of support for high-performance athletes in access to higher education allowed the entry of 155 pupils-athletes in the preference course, a growth of 25 % compared to 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The sports merit awards awarded by the IPDJ ( Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth ) to athletes and arbitrators, referring to titles won in the 2022 - 2023 period, amount to EUR 1 million and EUR 200 thousand, the largest ever, sign of the evolution of Portuguese sport, either by the number of titles, or by the diversity of modalities, including the adapted sport: 90 athletes, 15 arbitrators and 20 modalities. With the focus on Paris 2024, the Olympic and Paralympic preparation has the greatest support ever. Repeat: Olympic and paralympic preparation has the greatest support ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The programme contracts concluded between the IPDJ and the committees total EUR 32 million and EUR 100 thousand, ensuring an average increase of 20 % of athletes' and trainers' scholarships, in addition to improving the conditions for preparing and qualifying games. It was the turn of the construction of the last floor of the high sports performance building: the strengthening of the support measures for Olympic, paralympic and high-performance sports practitioners, after the end of their career, an old claim from the sector, which sees, in this bill, a significant advance. The sacrifices made by athletes throughout their careers often result in the impossibility of reconciling intensive training and competition schemes with the exercise of other full-time professional functions, resulting in increased risks in the context of the development of their professional life after the completion of the sports career. It is therefore important to respond to the circumstances arising from the effects of the end of the sports career, ensuring that, after its cessation, athletes are able to take advantage of the knowledge and skills that high-performance sport, at an extremely demanding and competitive level, enables them to acquire. thus, through this proposed law, it is intended to establish a system of public employment quotas and special conditions for access to competitive procedures in central, regional and local administration services and bodies. It is also intended that high-performance athletes will be considered to be recipients of the measures to support the establishment of enterprises of the Entrepreneurship Support Programme and the Creation of the Own Job. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the national platform for the treatment of the manipulation of sports competitions is the greatest advance in the fight against anti-sports behaviors and corruption in sport. The reinforcement of post-rail measures is the last and essential floor of the high-performance building. These are two proposals that make the difference in the national sports system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u42	To present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I greet you and also the young people present in the galleries. The case of the forced kiss of Rubiales to the player Jennifer Hermoso was undoubtedly a case that brought to the media holophotos the theme of harassment in sports. But this is a case that is far from being isolated, since what data tells us is that, worldwide, 5 out of every 10 sportsmen have already been victims of sexual harassment. Only this year, until September, in Portugal, 26 harassment complaints were received, which means about three harassment complaints per month. in this debate, the NAP highlights the efforts of some sports federations and IPDJ itself, who have taken measures to combat this scourge, but we understand that the legal framework can and should go further in protecting athletes and in preventing harassment in their different aspects, transforming into law the good practices that already exist. Therefore, constructively and in line with the concerns of the federations, we bring here some proposals. First of all, we propose that harassment be regarded as a violation of the standards of defense of sports ethics, as is already the case in the Portuguese Football Federation and as they also establish the European Charter of Sport and the Code of Sport Ethics. Only 2 in 68 sports federations is that they have clear standards of prevention and punishment of harassment. Secondly, we propose that sports federations create in their disciplinary councils a channel of denunciation, like what happens in the Portuguese Football Federation, as a guarantee of protection to the complainant about the violation of sports ethics standards, so that we can effectively have consequences, as we have already verified in some cases in our country. Third and last, for greater gender equality, to bring a career in the future, especially to athletes who do not have the same job opportunities as male athletes, and also to combat harassment, the NAP understands that there should be the presence of women in the social bodies of the federations, which may bring another sensitivity in the treatment of the topic and a lower tolerance for this scourge. For this reason, in this debate, we propose that federations begin to have gender-balanced representation rules in their statutory bodies. These are proposals for which the federations have already shown willingness to dialogue and to work, hoping that, in the field of specialty, there will be the other political forces in order, together, to do this work with the NAP. A final note: we do not forget the paralympic athletes and therefore we propose the creation of a national day dedicated to recognizing the merit and excellence of national athletes and to promoting greater inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in sports.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u44	To present the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u45	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Communism failed in the West and the workers did not adhere in mass to Marx's revolutionary ideas. The implementation of these ideas was a failure and, at the first opportunity, the common citizen fled communism. Just think about which side the Germans ran after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u47	Even before that event, Marxist academics realized this failure. For example, at Frankfurt School, they tried to understand why the masses rejected communism, and then attributed the blame to the West: the West of Christian matrix; the West where a family is a man, a woman and her children; or the West where the nations are loved. So they decided to defeat the West, not by the economic way, but through culture, and developed the theories of population control, such as postcolonialism and racial theories, which force the West to apologize for its history, as was never required to any Asian country or the Middle East, where invasions and deaths also abound according to creed, race and sex. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They also developed gender theories, which address the most basic and elementary truths, such as that of which a man is a man and can never be a woman. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This has permeated all sectors, particularly those of sport. Today, there are those who come to tell us about sports truth and justice in competitions, but these are the same people who promote and applaud Lia Thomas, the women's swimming university champion in the United States; CeCé Telfer, the 400 m university champion barriers in women's fashion; or Laurel Hubbard, the first trans athlete to compete at the Tokyo Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u49	And what do these cases have in common? They're men competing against women just because they say they're perceived as women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They notice in perverseness: the controversy is always generated, only and only, in women's categories. You can give me an example! — a woman who took a sports title to a man?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u50	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u51	They can't, because there isn't. And the reason why there is no basic: it's because men and women are not equal and men have physical advantages in sports, even though they try to cancel those who say this. [[Protests by PS Member Cristina Mendes da Silva.]] This is not a matter of opinion, my dears, it is a matter of fact. For example, in 2017, in the United States, there were 5000 men, some even underage, who had better times and ran faster than Allyson Felix, one of the women athletes with Olympic gold in that country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u53	Those who today claim equality have achieved only one thing: to humiliate and harm women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In Canada, my dear ones, the title of champion woman lifting weight belonged to the transgender athlete Anne Andres, until this man was able to raise 124 kg, beating the record that, until then, was a woman. As a protest this year, Canada's Halterophilism Coach enrolled himself, saying he was perceived as a woman, and again beat the record, raising 167 kg. I'm honest, this hero has my respect. But do you know who's lost one more time? It was the women...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u55	...and it was also the sporting truth, because it is practically impossible for a woman to overcome this record. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But we do not stay here, because there are also those who show more respect today towards a Spanish athlete involved in a plot of lies than with Portuguese children. There are those who come to cry the harassment in sports today, while opening the door to harassment and rape in the school spas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u56	These who today bring beautiful words are the same as those who have put forward proposals so that, for example, the spas of these young people who listen to us are mixed and that men and women can share these spaces of intimacy. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u57	« We were exposed to a man's genitals in a women's pool ». The speaker showed a story with the title she quoted. This is what university athletes in the United States say, and this is what they want to import to Portugal the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the PAN and, by the way, also the PSD, since they related to the PAN in Madeira, knowing that this was one of the NAP proposals in Madeira. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The most serious is that this proposal has not yet been adopted, the legislative process has not yet been completed, and yet this government, which is so arrogant, has already implemented it in schools through the Guide The Right to Be in Schools, which was distributed at the beginning of the school year. Whoever does this does not respect democracy and does not respect its institutions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today, there are also people here who want to talk about moral harassment in sports. So it's time to ask where were these people when five players from Toulouse were released from the game in front of Nantes because they refused to enlarge on their equipment an LGBT flag (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u59	The cause was more than legitimate: objection for religious reasons. Some of them were even Muslims, like many of the immigrants who have come to Europe and who you say have taken place in this Europe. The truth is, you are hypocritical. This is the hypocrisy of these bureaucrats, who say everything and their opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u61	More: the French Minister of Sport asked until these football players were sanctioned. And what was your crime? Crime of opinion, in this single-minded Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u62	Publicly censored, it was also Jonathan Isaac, who refused to kneel during the national anthem in a NBA ( National Basketball Association ) competition in the context of the black lives matter campaigns in 2020. For this player, the reason was obvious, too: he only kneels before Jesus Christ, because he considers that, in the name of Jesus, all lives matter, be white, black, Asian—all said this player. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And he said very well, because the generation of my grandparents didn't fight for democracy to get less and less free, to be censored and to be politicized in what we think. For all this, what you're asking for today is good sense. [[PS Members' laughs.]] We ask that sport be not politicized and that athletes be not harmed or pressured by these agendas; that sport be not ended and that sport be defended with nails and teeth, particularly women's modalities; and that we turn our eyes to true inclusion—for example, the inclusion of paralymical athletes and the inclusion of our athletes in career ends. Sport should be about everything that unites us, it should be about the beauty of having seen our athletes of ragebi entrenchment, in tears, the national anthem and, with tears, also achieve the first victory of ever in a world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] "Healthy mind, body are" — will there be more western phrase than this? May sports always be about everything that unites us and not about what separates us. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u63	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Mrs Joana Mortágua asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u64	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u65	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u66	Mr President, in accordance with Article 89 ( 3 ). where there is a deviation from the subject under discussion, the speaker should be taken away.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u67	Do you want to send it here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u68	Do you want to send it here already? Oh, my God! You're just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u69	Of course, I wouldn't interrupt Mrs. Deputy's speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u70	He doesn't command the assembly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u71	...but actually, either in relation... [[CH protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u72	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member who is speaking is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u73	You're not even the vice president!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u74	Not because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u75	The Free had only 600 votes in Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u76	Mr. André Ventura, please. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is making an inquiry to the Bureau, which means she is addressing myself. Therefore, please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Clearly, in Mrs Rita Matias' speech, there were comments of a xenophobic character, particularly transphobic and homophobic nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u78	Ui! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u79	It was a disrespectful speech with the trans and LGBTI community ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex). [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u80	That's xenophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u81	in the same way, looking at the initiative, at the initial points — and we regret that we have not immediately signalled to the Bureau that same circumstance — we find that it has the same idea of paying attention to the human rights of all people, particularly LGBTI people and trans people. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u82	This is not an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u83	The NAP could not fail to point this out, Mr President, regretting the fact that we have not already indicated it to your Excellency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u84	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u85	Has Mrs. Joana Mortágua also asked for the floor for an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u86	Mr. President, proud of your patience, because I know that...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u87	But is that an interrogation at the table?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u88	It is an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u90	Thanks to your patience, Mr. President, because I know that, at least than this, many of the teachers present in the galleries have expelled students from their classrooms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u91	That was in the old days!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u92	...I just wanted to ask Mr. President to distribute the bill in which the Arrival proposes mixed bathrooms in schools. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u93	Mrs Rita Matias would like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u94	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President of a number of banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u95	Madam Member, since you are going to make an inquiry to myself, I warn you from now on that you have to address only the « Mr. President or « Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u96	That's censorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u97	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u98	This is not written anywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u99	Would you like to make your inquiry in this way? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u100	in those terms, I will not make my inquiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u101	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u102	...because I don't admit to being censored in my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u103	Mrs. Deputy, you have no word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u104	Where is that written? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u105	I do not admit to being censored in my speech, in the performance of my duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u106	“You’ll get used to it!”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u107	You don't have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u108	This is not written anywhere! It's a shame! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u109	With regard to the request to the Bureau of Mrs Joana Mortágua, as long as it identifies this bill, the Bureau will circulate this information through all benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u110	It is necessary to learn to read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u111	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is right when she says that Article 89 ( 3 ). It gives the President-in-Office the responsibility to warn the speakers when they are moving away from the subject under discussion. I humbly confess my inability to follow the reasoning expressed. [[Rice from the PAN and PS Members.]] [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u112	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I was unable to enforce that paragraph of Article 89. the, because what was said exceeds, in time, my ability...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u113	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u114	... intellectual, emotional and emotional to follow an argument,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u115	The President must be impartial!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u116	... whatever he is, I just waited for the watch to pass and the speaker in question finally shut up. [[P.S., P.N. and Mr. BE José Moura Soeiro.]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u117	This is a shame! Don't beat your hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u118	Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u119	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic of certain benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u120	No, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u121	Where it's written...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u122	If you want to make an inquiry in which you address me directly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u123	Mr. President, you have to tell me which one is...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u124	... must do so in accordance with the terms and the courtesy required by the Statute of the Member of the European Parliament. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u125	Ditator! You're a dictator!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u126	Therefore, Mr President, you have the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on these specific terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u127	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u128	No, sir! The honourable Member has to say « Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic », addressing myself if you want to address yourself, and then say what you want. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u129	Where is that written? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u130	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, which represents some benches, does not represent the bench of the coming...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u131	No, sir! [[PS laughter.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr President, you cannot address yourself in terms that are inappropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u132	But where is that written? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u133	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u134	This is dictatorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u135	Mr President, please decide whether you want to make an appeal to the Bureau and, therefore, to myself or not. If you wish, do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u136	Not even Korea! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u137	Not even the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u138	The dictatorship! [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u139	I call for silence in the Chamber so that Mr Pedro Pinto can make his request to the Bureau if he wishes to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u140	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, I have to tell you two things. First of all, I wonder what will be the article in which it is written that we address you as Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic'. Secondly, I tell you that it is not — we do not recognise it, we have already said this to you several times, as our President — President of this bench, because you do not take off the Socialist Party shirt. [[Protests of PS Members.]] You are still the President of the Assembly of the Republic of the extreme left represented here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You cannot withdraw the word from an MP in the tyrannical way you did it. [[He didn't retreat! No one took the word off!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u141	You must respect Mrs Rita Matias as you respect all Members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u143	You can't do what you did. You have rejected — you have rejected! — Mrs Rita Matias and I, as parliamentary leader of this party and of this bench, will never allow you to do so. It's a lack of respect for what you've done. [[BE's laughs.]] Then, Mr President, what Mrs Inês de Sousa Real did and what Mrs Joana Mortágua did did was not brought before the Bureau. [[Protests of PS Members.]] There were no appeals to the Bureau, and you, there, should have stopped both the request of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and that of Mrs Joana Mortagua, and you did not. He didn't. Do you know why, Mr. President? Because you can't take off the socialist shirt; you can't be impartial. Your place, the place up there, must be impartial. You must prove to this bench that you are President of all Members and cannot do so. That's the big problem! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why we are not going to say that you are Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic. You will continue to be President of only a few seats until you clearly say that you are President of all Members. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u144	Mr President, let us start with the facts: I have not taken the floor away from anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u145	He's retired! Don't let me talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u146	In fact, during this year and a half, I never took the word away from anyone. Even the honourable Member could agree that I had regimental capacity to do so, and it really takes a huge exercise of patience not to do so. But I understand that I must not do so, except in absolute circumstances. Secondly, I have just reminded myself that when the honourable Member or the honourable Member expressly addresses me, they have to do so with the minimal courtesy that the Statute of Members requires us to do so. Now let's turn to law issues. I do not answer in front of the Arrival; I answer in front of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] I was elected by the vote of 156 Members—I think I did not cheat on the number—...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u147	Mine didn't go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u148	... represented in this Assembly of the Republic. I have been elected, I am the President; I am President of all the Members, including the Members of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u149	You have to prove it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u150	In front of everyone, I fulfil my obligations, the obligations which the Rules of Procedure give me. As for the expression that your bench decides to use when it makes its speeches, I have only to say the following: Members do not find themselves, because they imagine what was a party that has posters spread by the country, including here, in a corridor of the Assembly of the Republic, suggesting the physical elimination of its political opponents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u151	Don't get in the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u152	... and that you have a president who wrote a press article in which you designate our democratic Republic as — I apologize for what I am going to say, but it is a literal quote — a « patiferia brothel », imagine what this bench was like - to me its President. What a knot it would be on my resume! [[P.S., P.N. and L.]] I now give the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u153	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u154	Mr Pedro Pinto, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u155	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, I repeat, of some benches, we will end with this...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u156	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u157	For an appeal to the Bureau, as I have already said. That was the first thing I said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u158	Then you have to make an appeal to the Bureau in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure determine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u159	Then I'll do it. Mr President, I think we have to finish this conversation now. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u160	Mr, if you would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u161	I'm doing it if they leave me! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u162	... by abusing this regulatory figure, it must do so in accordance with the requirements of the Statute of Members and the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u163	Well, as I said, about the posters you mentioned...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u164	Mr President, you do not have the floor because you are clearly unable to comply with the Rules of Procedure in the record of speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u165	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, if I may make an appeal to the Bureau, that is what I am doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u166	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u167	Mr President, we are here to continue this discussion is almost ridiculous. Mr. President came here to talk about posters of a political party... but now we have to ask him for permission to put posters of a political party?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u168	It's censorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u169	Or we have to... but where are we? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u170	In Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u171	We are in Venezuela, in North Korea, in Cuba? Oh, my God! Where are we, Mr. President? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u172	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u173	That's enough! That's enough! Mr President, if you want to be respected, you must respect this bench. And Mr. President couldn't do that. When it was to condemn the violence there was, and the attacks on three Members of the Party arrived, you failed to do so. You can never be President of all Members, because if you were President of all Members, you would have condemned him, as he should have done and as he was obliged, and he did not. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u174	Sir, you are repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u175	I'm not repeating myself!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u176	Let's continue the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u177	Let's repeat the times you need!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u178	... because you do not have the power to determine the pace of our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u179	I could have now condemned the assaults, it would be good for him! This is a democracy to play with!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u180	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Francis Dinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u181	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: After this unqualified intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, then we will discuss the point... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u182	I can't admit it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u183	It's unqualifying to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u184	Unqualified, yes, Mrs. Member, unqualified!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u185	That's machismo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u186	Let us then discuss the subject we are discussing. We have two diplomas which bring a profound and decisive transformation to improve sport in Portugal. After others who have come to this House and who, as we have noted, have been able to make the difference in a significant improvement, we have discussed two equally relevant diplomas. The first is the legal regime for the integrity of sport and the fight against anti-sport behaviour. We all know reality, better than others, but the truth is that there is a notion, even by events of the past, of the need to act in this context. It must be stated, without hesitation and firmness, that there is no room for corruption, and this proposal responds to the defense of the principles of ethics and sports truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u187	All right. [[Congrats from PS Pompeu Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u188	Let us look, for example, at the creation of the national platform for the treatment of the manipulation of sports competitions, a mechanism that responds to threats that arise about Portuguese sport, or also at the establishment of the National Council for Integrity in Sport, which will have a fundamental role to ensure the integrity of the environment. Then, on the other hand, there is a second diploma, as has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, a diploma that comes with support measures for Olympic, Paralympic and high-income sports practitioners after the end of their career. We all, without exception, have great regard for the dedication and sacrifice that these practitioners perform throughout their careers; we also agree on the difficulty of reconciling intensive training and competition regimes with professional functions; finally, we also recognize the importance they have in the image of our country, and so many would be the positive references we could give. It is therefore imperative to continue to support their careers, as well as to respond to the effects of the end of their careers, with the guarantee of better adaptation and better access to the labour market, with various support and benefits, such as the public employment quota system. The measures presented here today are to be welcomed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot wait any longer and we have two proposals brought by the government that give a very strong response from the state to the needs: on the one hand, the greatest advance, already done, in the fight against the manipulation of sport corruption; on the other hand, fairly alongside the Portuguese athletes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u189	I would like to congratulate the Minister, the Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I also give a greeting to the people who are present today in the galleries and, if allowed, especially to young students and their teachers. They're all very welcome. As the work continues, I now give the floor to the PSD Parliamentary Group and to Mrs Cristiana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u190	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : Cinjo - I am one of the subjects under discussion today and the support measures for Olympic, Paralympic and high-performance sports practitioners after the end of the sports career. Once again, Mr Secretary of State, the Government does not bring together any studies, documents or opinions which have substantiated the submission of the bill, which has also been a bad practice. But the creation of instruments that guarantee, in fact, a set of conditions favourable to Olympic, paralympic and high-performance athletes after the cessation of their sport activity is the most basic justice. The difficulty in reconciling intensive training and competition schemes with the exercise of full-time professional functions is evident. Athletes in difficulty, laws that are not being applied and ad hoc criteria in subsidies have been the harsh reality for most of our sports practitioners of the highest competition. There is some legislation, but then, to be applied, it becomes as difficult as overcoming sports barriers. Being in the Olympus and then moving on to real life causes problems of mental health and adaptation to reality. At a time when the athlete is in high performance, it is not easy to reconcile teaching with a professional performance of excellence. Guaranteeing the Olympic minimums to be in a competition among the best in the world is reserved for an elite we have to respect. It was from Viseu to Lisbon that, with Carlos Lopes, Portugal knew the Olympic gold and, with it, many life stories of overcoming and total dedication to sport. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of today's debate lacks a finer analysis in the field of expertise. The PSD will be absolutely available and will not fail to contribute to some aspects that we have before us. For example, in the exclusion of the scope of the application of sports practitioners who are subject to disciplinary punishment — even in the penalties corresponding to a minor infringement — the question is made sense that a written warning or retaliation may exclude a sports practitioner from the scheme in question. We have doubts. The deadline for application for public employment was set for only two years. We want the system of public employment quotas in the central, regional and local administration, in particular the fixed percentage, to be improved. The right to temporary integration grant, which requires subsequent or interpolated integration of Olympic or Paralympic project for a period of six years, may seem to exclude an athlete who has obtained an Olympic medal, but who has only participated in a four-year Olympic cycle. There was an excess of bureaucracy on voluntary social insurance, which was no longer a very positive measure, but should be simplified. To finish, I remember Albertina Dias and the already deceased Teresa Machado, two Olympic athletes who publicly admitted difficulties and the sale of medals. It's a pain to know these difficulties. The individual responsibility of each athlete is not rejected in his preparation for life and for the difficulties he will encounter when he withdraws from sports, but nothing excludes the responsibility of whom he demanded everything: the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u191	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing an extended set of proposals and projects that deserve, each one, an in-depth reflection and discussion, especially when, as we understand, sport does not have the centrality it should have in relation to public policies. We will therefore try to highlight essential aspects. For Bill No 87 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which establishes post-rail support measures, according to what is already established in Decree-Law No 272/2009, this post-rail issue has been a subject that we have repeatedly raised and which even deserves the development of effective policies. in this sense, we welcome the initiative. We believe that, despite the step taken, the Government could also have taken advantage of some of the problems of the previous regime, when, for example, it maintains the time-limit, which is impractical, two years after the end of the high-performance career, when we know that there are not quite so many external competitions in the Public Administration. However, it is absolutely necessary to find safeguard mechanisms for those who dedicate years of their lives to high competition, including in the country's representation, and mechanisms of various support plans, where the professional is inserted, which is, as we know, a central and decisive element for the realization of these professionals. Thus, we will be available to find solutions that fully meet the needs and that we consider are still missing in the proposed law. With regard to Bill No 94 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) and the legal regime of the integrity of sport and the fight against anti-sport behaviors, these are fundamental objectives, fair objectives. In practice, what is done is to apply to the area of sport, especially as regards falsification of results, the mechanisms that already exist in anti-corruption laws, including the same types of crime — active and passive corruption, undue receipt of advantage, etc. — there are also mechanisms of premium law and the protection of complainants, in addition. It is therefore a matter of creating a specific anti-corruption law for sport. We have some doubts about some technical aspects, but also, as is known, for example, about the option of mandatory complaint, whose violation is punishable by imprisonment. It is also possible to discuss whether, with legal mechanisms already existing, having competent bodies for research and complaints, it makes sense the creation of this new platform, leading to the multiplication of structures, as proposed here, and if this is no longer bureaucracy that ultimately does not serve anything. However, we are also available to work on this matter, which must deserve the best attention in the field of expertise. On the other proposals, I would also like to say that, in fact, paralympic sport needs to be valued and national, international, etc. days. are mechanisms that also contribute to the appreciation of a particular phenomenon, a given sector. However, in this particular case, it makes no sense to change from « national paralympic day » to « national day of the paralympic athlete ». Of course, because this is not a design, it is not an option of Portugal's Paralympic Committee itself. What makes sense to us is to constitute this day, September 26, which is already the day used, in an official way, as such, because the paralympic day includes all athletes, coaches, guides and all athletes support staff and therefore is also more comprehensive and, to this extent, better corresponds to the objectives set out in the NAP proposal. In fact, in general countries, what is practiced is precisely the paralympic day or the day of paralympic sport, not the athlete. The only example we have is that of Brazil, the rest of the country's generality has this approach. About Bill No. 942 / XV / 2. a (PAN), we accompany the concerns and well know the need for a real fight against sexual harassment and all types of harassment and criminal behavior in any context. But in view of what already exists and what is currently being developed by several sports-related entities, with the IPDJ, the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport, the COP, the Order of Psychologists and the Confederation of Trainees of Portugal — all of them privileged partners of the National Observatory for Violence against / Athletes — we believe it is important that no legislation is made on the part and that changes are introduced in such a way that they have a real impact on the protection of athletes. I conclude by saying that another issue is that federations are not all at the same level of implementation and conditions in the resources plan. This should also be adopted and also taken into account when making legislative amendments. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u193	Mr António Pedro Faria now speaks for the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u194	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Today the Government presents us with a proposal for legislation of extreme importance, since Olympic, Paralympic and high-performance sports practitioners perform highly demanding activities with a significant impact on the image of Portugal. These athletes make sacrifices throughout their careers and often translate into the impossibility of reconciling intensive training and competition schemes with the exercise of other full-time professional functions, which poses added risks in the development of their professional life after the completion of their sports career. For the development of this bill, a working group was formed, of which several bodies were involved in high-performance sports, and its final version was submitted to the National Sport Council and the Association of the Olympic Athletes of Portugal. One of the main objectives is to update the legal framework of post-rail support measures as a form of stimulus for the sport career of high-performance athletes and to enhance the dual career in the path of the high-performance athlete. at the same time, it is to respond to the circumstances resulting from the effects of the term of the sports career of these practitioners, ensuring that, after the end of their sports activity, all the experience gained in their activity is taken advantage of. With the post-rail system, all measures in force are enshrined in a single legal diploma. With this bill, it is intended to establish the system of public employment quotas, as well as the conditions for access to competitive procedures of central, regional or local authorities for the period of two years after the end of the career. The athletes also benefit from an increase of five years at the age legally required for access to admission contests to the special careers of the Public Administration. These athletes are also considered to be recipients of the measures to support the creation of enterprises of the Entrepreneurship and Employment Support Programme. This proposal updates the form of temporary reintegration grant calculation, which will allow further support. In other words, with this bill, the government offers better conditions for these athletes, demonstrating once again the great bet on national sports. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u195	I now give the floor, for one speech, to the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative and to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Liberal Initiative, the defence of merit will always be essential ; and the defence of merit in the context of sports competitions cannot be an exception. in this sense, and although there are some improvements, to be made in the field of specialty, we will obviously follow the Government's proposal that lays down measures for sports practitioners, because we believe it is a matter of justice to give conditions of social and labour integration to those who have dedicated a large part of their lives to represent our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u198	I would also like to highlight and say that we will follow the draft law of the NAP, with regard to the consecration of harassment as a disciplinary offence, within the legal regime of sports federations, because this is not even a partisan issue and we must all be united to condemn these acts in any sector of our society. But the Liberal Initiative cannot follow the logic that gender quotas and obligations are the panacea that will resolve the issue of harassment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u200	Let women be free and be where they understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u203	On the other hand, through Bill No 94 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which aims to establish the legal regime of the integrity of sport and the fight against sports behavior, the Government has created new crimes relating to the integrity of sports competitions, in particular with the creation of crimes of passive and active corruption applicable to the sports agent. It should be noted that the proposal for a law has some technical improvements to be made, for example, in its article on definitions — more specifically, with regard to the definition of a sports agent, refers to the previous points, when that point is point (a) and, therefore, surely, the Government here would refer to 'the following points'. But there is also a broader point that we cannot ignore: the government, with this proposal, intends to create new legal types of crime. This is a relevant legal asset — the integrity of sports competitions and the defence of merit — it certainly has an appropriate objective to substantiate the creation of these new crimes. However, there are some questions that I would like to see answered by the Secretary of State in his final speech. The first is about the creation of these new types of crime. However, passive and active corruption, as prescribed in the Penal Code, subjectively affects employees as defined in Article 386. the and which are circumscribed, essentially and simplifying, only to public servants. However, and through Law No. 20 / 2008, crimes of passive and active corruption have already been created by the legislator in the private sector. We would therefore like to see, firstly, how the Government looks at the coexistence of these two legal regimes, i.e. how they relate to the newly proposed crime of passive and active corruption of the sportsman and the crime of passive and active corruption of the private sector, which is already provided for in the law currently in force. Secondly, we would also like to mention the following: in addition to creating new legal types of crime, the government must ensure that the justice system works, because it is essential that, for example, it does not happen to prescribe illegal criminal offences. Unfortunately, we have seen in the so-called "white collar crime"...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u204	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u205	... or in economic and financial crime, particularly in cases of great media exposure, that our justice system is unable to reach a decision in good time. Now, the government here also has its share of responsibility, because it is not acceptable for justice to be stopped for months, with more delay than it had during the pandemic. It is not acceptable for the processes not to go and for the citizens to despair with late and cancelled due diligence. It is not enough, therefore, to legislate, to protect and, on this mission, the government has failed desperately. So the second question I would like to see answered by the Secretary of State is: when will the normality of justice be resumed in Portugal? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u206	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The right to sport is contained in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and is therefore one of the pillars of the State's obligations towards citizens and citizens, and that is how we understand it. Sport is an instrument of social inclusion and should be seen as a service of the State, through its different aspects — educational system, associative movement, high competition, leisure. It must provide all people, regardless of their age, with their social, territorial and economic status, with the right to all these things. In Portugal, public investment in sport continues far below the European average, which is in the 108 € per capita. However, the role of sport in territorial cohesion and in combating the abandonment of areas of low population density is indisputable, such as the role of training steps in combating school dropout, in group work pedagogy, in healthy physical development and in strengthening mental health. In the specific case of high-competitive athletes, already in the past, we had the opportunity to warn about the need to create support mechanisms, so that the State and the country do not abandon former Olympic and Paralympic medalists, one day to the other. in this sense, the Government's proposal takes a first step to ensure that these athletes move to a phase of their new sports and professional career. We welcome this first step, but we must not fail to note that, from the point of view of the legal framework proposed by the Government, the option for grants and voluntary social insurance, instead of a more robust legal framework, it remains the matrix of thought where these types of precarious mechanisms are the solution and, of course, in the field of specialty, we will want to review some of these mechanisms. With regard to the diploma relating to the new legal system of integrity in sport and the fight against anti-sport behaviour, it is important to emphasize the importance of finding, in a multidisciplinary framework and partnership between the various entities, both the supervisors and those of criminal investigation and within the framework of justice, an effective capacity to act on the problem of manipulation of results, the addiction of results, the trafficking of influences and corruption. There is no lack of known controversial cases, to demonstrate this to us, that addiction and manipulation of results are a reality in our sports world. We cannot allow all the business around the sports phenomenon to be practically installed today as if it were a reality parallel to the rule of law. The Government's proposal seeks a framework which, on the one hand, places on the role of the sport fabric as an engine for the training and education of good practice and, on the other hand, a sanction framework which aims to punish the actors involved in the sport that do not comply with the law. It should be noted here that, despite an important effort in recent years, by associations, clubs and federations in the field of the formation of good practices, this has not been sufficient for a universe which is increasingly invaded by financial interests, many of them alien to the sporting truth and the social function of sport. I conclude by saying that the sport phenomenon is becoming increasingly—it is inevitable—Influenced and crossed by the reality of financial businesses, of the various economic businesses, more or less obscure, which have been seen for sport as a way to create a network of profitability of their businesses outside the law. And this means acting on the sports phenomenon, but it also means acting on the economic system, because it has to have rules, it has to be transparent and, increasingly, we have to ensure that sport fulfils its constitutional function and is not a reduction in a parallel economic system and the margin of the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u208	For an intervention now by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister : Everyone in this House will agree — except perhaps those who live on media bubbles, media turbulence — that... [[CH's laughs.]] ... the defense of the principles of ethics, of the defense of the sports spirit and of the sporting truth are unnegotiable in a state of democratic law. And it is the defense of these principles that is in the genesis of Bill No 94 / XV / 1. the one under discussion today. This diploma, which had an underlying hyperparticipated work, involving several entities, aims to strengthen the State's media in the fight against corruption in sport without hindrance. It is in this sense that the national platform for the treatment of the manipulation of sports competitions is created, which will have, in its tasks — as already said by the Secretary of State — the development of a national programme for the integrity of sport and, for example, to receive, treat and analyze bets or at least indications of illegal betting. It also has the merit of creating the national council for integrity in sport and establishing the crime of sports co-operation. It is therefore a proposal that aims to respond to very concrete problems, problems that are not theoretical, have had practical fulfillments. For example, we see what happened in Italy, with the Italian National Selection and with the Italian League, which had their foundations shaped by sports corruption, sports betting, with three international players involved in this turbulence of illegal betting. It is therefore imperative to provide the State, our security forces and the administrative agents with the tools necessary to combat those who devert sport in the name of easy, fast and illegal enrichment. This is the great merit of this bill, which aims to function as a shield, as a legal aggregate tool. If I may be allowed the football jargon, like a kind of world-class netguard, a Rui Patrício, which aims to prevent the deverting agents of the sports competitions, that the criminal agents, make goggles on that which is the portuguese baliza. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, the congratulations of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, because it is a comfort for us to see that the government is in line with this fight without any difficulties to corruption in sport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u210	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u211	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: If there is a phenomenon that brings enthusiasm to the Portuguese, it is undoubtedly the sport phenomenon. The hours spent weekly discussing sports on Portuguese television are incomparably more than those spent discussing any other subject, with the participation, in the present and in the past, of many — but many! — Ladies and gentlemen, Members of this House. Some of them even trained for tribunes here in this Parliament. But today we are examining and discussing the bill establishing the legal regime for integrity in sport and in combating anti-sport behaviour. Ethics, the defense of the sports spirit and the sport truth are the foundation of the sport practice and fundamental to the required dignity of practitioners, leaders, technicians and other sports agents. In fact, this fight against corruption in the sport phenomenon is crucial, especially with regard to the prevention and punishment of events that distort, fraudulently, the truth of competition and the sporting outcome. It is up to us to promote sport as an essential way to educate and train, teaching the values of tolerance, respect for opponents, as well as for the difference, and is a fundamental pillar for the construction of a full human being. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u212	We therefore believe that the existing law needed, in fact, to go further, and therefore we welcome the creation of two new legal types of crime that did not appear in Law No 50/2007, which are the crime of sports corruption and the crime of fraudulent sports betting, which criminalize conduct of high indignity and criminal necessity and, if so, there was even a gap that was important to cover. But let's see what Article 19 says. the, against the sporting coercion: « Anyone who, by means of violence or threat with serious evil, exercised on a sports agent, causes him conditioning, even if temporary, or who contributes that a sport test does not decorate under conditions of competitive normality, is punished with imprisonment for up to five years or with penalty of fine. Do not keep on seeking. ” And this is where the issues that we want to leave referred to for this law to be improved: for example, the use of this expression, 'causes conditioning, even if temporary', is essential to conclude whether there is a crime or not, generates an indetermination of the provision of criminal law, in fact violating the principle of typicality. In other words, what is the scope of 'conditioning'? And how do you figure out if it's definitive or temporary? Also in Article 20. on fraudulent sports bets, it is said: « Anyone who having advance knowledge of the result or incidences of any sporting events, trials or competitions, does, or in his benefit to order to do, sports bet on quota, online or territorial basis, ensuring luck, through error or deception, is punished with the same prison sentence of five years or penalty of fine. » Another concept or expression that generates doubts of an interpretive nature, does not carry out conduct and thus makes it difficult to know which acts are effectively punishable. There are also other concepts of difficult interpretation in this bill. They will have to be, in the field of specialty, reviewed and improved, subject to such difficulty in applying these standards that, ultimately, this law can never achieve its objectives, which are to punish behaviors likely to affect truth, loyalty and the correctness of competition, distorting and distorting the results. We are all happy to criminalize these behaviors, but then, in practice, the law can do nothing if the difficulty of interpretation leads to rarely or never to apply. We are now in time to view all your details, thus not becoming dependent on the fable help of any interpretative VAR(video assistant). No revolt or indignation more the Portuguese and Portuguese sports lovers than to be faced with behaviors that fake the sports truth, violate the competitive correction, and see that nothing is done to prevent it or punish it. Yes, having a law, but, after all, of little service, causes more instability and revolt and gives action and feeds violent and disproportionate behavior. Thus, we recognize the usefulness of criminalizing these conducts, as well as recognizing virtualities in the now created national platform for handling the manipulation of competitions, as well as the national council, which this law also provides. But these bodies also need to be refined, in the field of expertise, in particular as regards their composition. The PSD also leaves the alert and also leaves its full availability to improve this law in the field of specialty so that it effectively serves its purpose, which is to ensure the regular development of the sport competition, preventing the use of any practice or method that somehow fakes...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u213	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u214	Mr President, I'm going to ask you, in football, for a few more seconds: it's a kind of a VAR frame, to see if I'm out of play or not and let me be at stake a little more, please. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] I would end by saying that respect for integrity and for the truth in sport is the respect that all Portuguese want to see, in fact, to avoid some violent anti-sports behaviors, which then fatten and expand throughout Portuguese society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs Paula Cardoso and, if I may, too, thank you for the small moment of humor which you have brought to this Parliament. We're definitely going to need it! [[Laughing.]] And now I give the floor to Mr. Freeman, Rui Tavares. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u216	Mr President, Dear colleagues : In fact, today we have had more tense moments. Allow me, too, to uncompress, telling a childhood story.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u217	Nobody wants to know...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u218	When I was a kid, my sister... [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, not this, not this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u219	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u220	Not this, not this! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u221	Everyone is interested in knowing Mr. Rui Tavares' childhood story, starting with myself! We are all interested in listening to Mr Rui Tavares. Now, let's hear the very interesting story of Mr Rui Tavares and I ask here, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, moderation and hearing, that we must learn something! Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u222	Even the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of arrive will like it! When I was a kid, sometimes I would visit my sister, who worked in a bank — at the time all the banks were public — and, in her office, there was a table that was often empty, but, from time to time, there was her colleague, who was no less than the world recordr of 10,000 m, Fernando Mamede.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u223	Great sportsman!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u224	It was an emotion, of course, to go there and sometimes to see that man there; if I am not mistaken, it ran 10 000 m in 27 minutes and 13 seconds. A record player! It has not only convinced me — since we are in a more relaxed environment, Mr Bruno Nunes — to exchange Benfica for Sporting, but always twists it for him. This is to say that, at that time, there was informally what is being proposed today. Carlos Lopes...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u225	Great sportsman!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u226	... she was also an employee in a public bank and what she was trying to do was, with some flexibility, to reconcile their sports career with the career of employees. Obviously this was informal, it was opaque, it was tailored and it was unfair because later people lost years of career progression. Therefore, it is very good that Portugal prepares to have a system that is clearer, that is more transparent, that is for everyone and that helps our Olympic and Paralympic athletes during their career...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u228	... or after his career, to have the support of the State they need. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u229	I appreciate it. And I am also grateful that you have exposed this Parliament and the country this story revolves around their childhood. And now, for an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Pompeu Martins. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : In closing this intervention by the Socialist Party, I would like to stress that the proposed laws that the Government here presents to us meet what the Sports Country calls for, and that it goes through a real effort focused on the valorization of sports agents, social inclusion, the promotion of high income, as well as not abdicating transparency and the promotion of sporting truth. It should be noted that these proposals, like others that the Government has already achieved in this sector, are not the result of the solidarity of the ministerial offices: they emerge first of all from a permanent dialogue with the sports sector, also demonstrating the commitment that the PS has towards the Portuguese, of an absolute majority, to comply with the absolute commitment of work together with the various actors and representatives of the Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The coherent and informed structure, in legislative terms, that the Government has built on sports policy has created conditions for the transformation that the sector so demands; these transformations, which have already gone through the legislation around sports societies, the regulation of safety at sports venues, the progress that has already existed with regard to training policies. Proposals whose ultimate aim is to have a country in Portugal where everyone feels that in sports practice they are building something that must be a referencer for our society and our civilization. We must not, therefore, fear words. And, yes, we wish to make it difficult to limit those who use sports activity to obtain advantages that are undue to them. Yes, we would like to state that there is no place in sport for those who are contrary to the values of truth, loyalty and correction and are prepared to fraudulently alter the results of the different competitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is at the forefront of the debate on these matters. For this reason, these laws are coherent and are based on reality. These are bills that, responsibly, pride us because they make us move forward, in a sports country where values and citizenship count. I end by recalling Virgílio Ferreira, when he writes: « A truth is only true when it leads to the last consequences. Until then, it's not a truth, it's an opinion. Do not keep on seeking. ” The work that the Government is taking forward leads to the ultimate consequences, as is its duty; others — I conclude, Mr President — will be able to give opinions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u231	Mrs Rita Matias, of the Arrival, has the floor for a very brief speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to clarify that the arrival never proposed or will never propose the physical elimination of anyone, unlike other parties and their ideologies, but the fact that the terms of biological men compete against women, for example in boxing or MMA (mixed martial arts), this can even lead to the physical elimination of women...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u234	...and I do not admit to being censored for saying this, even though they even claim intellectual inability to understand what has been said. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I do not admit to being censored by men who want to have more women in politics, but who leave them behind, at the bottom of the benches, so that they cannot speak, or feminists who do not represent women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u236	If you want to be inclusive, you can be;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u238	I shall conclude, Mr President. If they want to be inclusive they can give your place to a trans, to whom you want, but the only thing I ask you is that please do not bring insecurity to the sport or to the schools of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u239	The Bureau no longer registers and therefore I give the Government the floor to close item 2 of the agenda. Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, João Paulo Correia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would begin by responding to the speeches of the Arrival. There is nothing that has been said about the proposals that are under discussion here. Nothing said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u241	That's what we agree on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u242	The intervention of the arrival in this debate is a fabulation about Portuguese sport. Mrs Rita Matias has launched an anathema on the Portuguese sport that the sector rejects. His intervention was unable to cite cases in Portugal or starred by Portuguese athletes or sports agents. Mrs Rita Matias invoked international cases, taking in these cases to build a fable on Portuguese sport, launching an anathema that the sector rejects. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese State regulates sport; the Portuguese State does not rescue sport. The Portuguese State regulates sport because it respects the principle enshrined in the law, the principle of autonomy of sports federations and their international subsidiaries, which must be observed in the light of international law. Everything I said here...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u243	Mrs Rita Matias has a name!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u244	... must be firmly rejected, so that no little doubt about how sport is organized and develops in Portugal. I would therefore like to talk about the proposals that are being discussed here, saying that many of the comments that have been made are relevant. Mrs Paula Cardoso, from the PSD, told us about the need to improve the concepts in defining the type of crimes enshrined in the bill and I believe that the discussion in the specialty is the time to do so. Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP also asked that this be done in the proposal for a law on post-rail measures, and I believe that these were relevant observations and will also take place in the discussion of the specialty. I wanted to take advantage of the time left to strengthen the greater scope of these bills. The government is fighting for the truth of sport. The recovery of the international certification of our Dopagem Analysis Laboratory ended up giving more international confidence in Portuguese sport, because without an anti-doping policy, our national competitions, the results of the competitions would not have international approval, would not be internationally recognized, so we could not continue to have a laboratory that did not have international certification. This certification was recovered in September 2022 and, at the same time, we have provided our Anti-Doping Authority with the necessary financial resources to complete the anti-doping policy and thus deserve international recognition. Also in the defence of sports truth, the new legal regime of sports societies, which has been in force for about a month, reinforces the eligibility requirements for qualified investors, administrators and managers, the rules that remove conflicts of interest, the rules that impose transparency on the holders of social participations and also the rules that refer to the publicity of the management acts of the same societies. on the high-performance side it is important to know the measures that support athletes of high-sport performance since compulsory education. I spoke to you recently, in the initial speech, of the high-performance units in school, which were created in 2016 and which today are 25 in the country, from Mirandela to Faro, and which allow our students athletes of compulsory education and who attend national selections to reconcile their academic career with the sports career — they can miss the tests, they can be missed and compensated by the teachers of these disciplines — to whom the State pays through an investment, not of expenditure, because we believe that this budget allocation is an investment that is made in sport and in the future of Portuguese sport. These 25 units, which increased to 25 in this academic year, allow reconciliation, the so-called dual career, to 1400 athletes of 55 modalities. On the other hand, those athletes who want to enter higher education and have no means to enter their preference course, compete with the Special Access to Higher Education Scheme, which, in this academic year, allowed 155 athletes to enter their preference course because they are high-performance athletes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u245	Mr. Secretary of State has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u246	I shall conclude, Mr President. I conclude by saying that the strong and historical investment in Olympic and Paralympic preparation is also a moment and a measure that makes the difference in the wager in high income, and that the national platform for the treatment of the manipulation of sports competitions is the greatest advance in the fight against anti-sport and sports corruption and post-rail measures are the last floor of the high income building, there is much claimed by the sector, and that will certainly make a huge difference in the career of our athletes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u247	With this intervention we close this item on the agenda and we say goodbye to the government, to whom we thank for the presence. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to point 3 of our agenda, with the general assessment, among others, of Bill Nos 307 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates the sustainability factor and orders the informal recalculation in all pensions paid by PSP professionals, 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — regulates the provision of additional work in the Public Security Police ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ) and 821 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in security forces and services. To present these initiatives, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents today three bills aimed at improving working conditions in security forces and services. First of all, it is a matter of creating a proper legal regime for the conditions of hygiene, safety and health at work of its professionals, secondly, of establishing a pension scheme without a sustainability factor and, thirdly, of regulating the use of additional work in the PSP. The current context in which the professionals of the security forces and services work, with regard to safety and health conditions at work, is an exception to the rule that all workers are entitled to the provision of work in conditions of hygiene, safety and health, provided for in the Constitution, a condition necessary for the establishment of humanized and socially dignified working conditions. Police activity, due to the occupational risks it integrates, cannot continue beyond the application of all legislation. Allowing police officers to find themselves in the best health, physical, mental and social conditions is not only a right of professionals, as it is the most important guarantee that the public service of national interest they provide is carried out in the best way. We do not ignore that the specificities of police activity will, to some extent, require the adaptation of certain provisions on safety and health at work, but what is not sustainable, Mr President. Members, it is the situation we are living today, with multiple violations of the rights of professionals in this area, and that is the adaptation of provisions on safety and health at work that our project intends to do. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has always opposed the application of the so-called « sustainability factor ». The penalization of the reforms resulting from it is unfair and did not consider the type of contributory career, the profession and the wear resulting from it, nor did it consider the contributory career of the workers in particular. After several years of struggle, which included the support and intervention of the CFP, the Government, through Decree-Law No 4 / 2017, eliminated the application of the sustainability factor to PSP professionals. However, the calculation of pensions of all PSP professionals who suffered cut due to the application of this same factor was not taken into account. Thus, PSP professionals who retired between the application of the 2014 Act and the entry into force of Decree-Law No 243/2015 did not see their recalculated pensions, so about 120 retired PSP professionals continue to be affected. Finally, we present a bill to limit the abuse of additional work in the PSP. in an activity such as the police, that I excuse to say what are the requirements, working time has implications for the health of professionals and has operational consequences that have to be taken into account. The hours and weekly working hours of PSP professionals are enshrined in their status. The normal working period is 36 hours, including training and training actions, and the additional work, in addition to the 36 hours period, is offset by the allocation of hourly credit in terms of the office of the national director. The so-called 'extraordinary work' must be exceptional and must have maximum limits to protect workers and the rule must go through its payment and allocation of compensatory breaks. But in the status of the PSP, compensation for additional work due to the allocation of this hourly credit is strongly conditional and even prescribes if it is not authorised within six months. With the lack of human resources, which is public and notorious, it is difficult for these commitments to be given, which, in practice, means unpaid work. In summary and summary, it is not acceptable to have unpaid work in the PSP, nor is it so acceptable that there are no additional maximum working limits because the problem of lack of human resources, often ignored, cannot be an excuse for imposing additional and unpaid work on these PSP agents. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u249	Still from this point of view of our agenda is the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 203 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the review of the table of gratified PSP and 859 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the opening of the negotiation process for the amendment of the remuneration rates of the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard. To present these initiatives, Mr Jorge Galveias of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u250	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am still shocked by Mr Augusto Santos Silva's attempt to bring a political judgment, in which he demonstrated his « Chegaphobia », and my intervention began.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u252	Today we are discussing proposals submitted by the PCP, the NAP and the Arrival banks, which together aim to dignify our security forces. However, I cannot fail to point out two notes: first, the absence of proposals from the Left Block and the Free Block, which does not surprise me, because we all know that these extreme-left forces are enemies of order and have always been next to those who, on the street, manifest themselves against the police, yell and put posters to say: "Good police is dead police. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] The security forces, their families and the Portuguese of good do not forget Mr. Freeman and the Left Block controls, who stand next to Mamadou Ba, the racist activist who defends the death of the white man. As a second note, I want to record the absence of proposals from the Socialist Party and the PSD, somewhat less radical left parties. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all know that the proposals of the Arrival will be rejected by the ideological blindness of the Socialist Party, the party whose bench led by Mr Brilhant Dias, that when you have to legislate and choose between dignifying the security forces and giving privileges to criminals, in a way more or less disguised, always choose the seconds. I leave my gratitude to the security forces here. Despite all the disrespect of the last governments, they are always available to serve, protect the victims and impose order. Security forces suffer permanent disrespect, just read the Ordinance No. 298 / 2016, which provides that the values of the gratified table are automatically updated — automatically! — on 1 March each year. The truth is that this has not happened since 2016. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is enough disrespect for security forces professionals. To the security forces of service in this Chamber and all your colleagues, I thank you very much for your dedication and how those who protect you protect you. I leave here one :Long live our security forces! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u253	Viva!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u254	To present the Resolution Project No 936 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government review the model of compensation for additional work in the Public Security Police, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They say that the personnel of the security forces and services face enormous challenges in their day-to-day, who are constantly subject to risk situations, exposed to physically and psychologically challenging situations, who work on shifts, with nighttime and weekends, and often with the use of additional work, is not any novelty, even less in this Chamber. We may even say that many of these situations are part of the nature of your work, but what we certainly cannot say is that it is part of doing all of this without adequate working conditions, safety and compensation. It is precisely because of the use of the additional work of these professionals and the lack of regulation, clarity, compensation due to this scheme that the NAP presents this initiative. We know that increasing working hours contribute to emotional and physical wear, and not only endangers the health of these professionals, as it affects their ability to respond in risk situations, even their mental health and increased suicide within the police forces. Therefore, it is essential to consider the limits of working time and additional work provided in this context. The supplementary work regime in the PSP has raised various problems and is the subject of complaints from trade unions. Since the fact that the picket supplement has been repeatedly applied to the supplementary work payment, when there are two completely different situations and that they should not be confused, and the additional work must be done — where it is not possible to enjoy hourly credits — is limited, as is already done for the private and public sector, and compensated duly. Furthermore, it is also important that the determination of the value and updating of this credit is not left solely to the criterion of the national director, discriminatingly generating uncertainties and, eventually, the very non-remuneration of overtime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our Constitution enshrines the right to rest, to the reconciliation of professional activity with family life and establishes maximum limits for the working day. It is therefore essential to ensure that there is no exception for security forces as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u256	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u257	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. But to that end, it is important to eliminate uncertainties, to review the legislation in force, together with the representative professionals and structures, so that we can reach a solution that is involved and fair that not only protects PSP professionals but also ensure a safe and healthy working environment, promoting the effectiveness of police operations and thus protecting those who protect us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u258	We shall now turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups which have no initiatives in this area, from the very point of view of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of initiatives aimed at responding to various problems affecting our security forces and services, in particular PSP and GNR. I therefore greet the authors of these initiatives because the training of our security forces and the appreciation of the profession of all those who risk their lives daily to ensure the safety of all of us are, for the PSD, fundamental themes that must always be at the heart of our priorities. [[PSD applause.]] The political debate around these issues is precisely because our police are facing a particularly difficult period, largely because they have been sacrificed by a government that does not fulfill what it promises; a government that much announces and does very little; a government that has failed — and continues to fail — to train our security forces and to dignify its professionals; a government that promises and announces millions of euros of investment to the sector and then is unable to execute, as has happened, and has happened, with the Military Programming Act; a government that announces a multi-annual programme of admissions to security forces and services, of 10 000 effectives; and then half, or less half, of that recruitment. This is because the government has not yet realized, or does not want to understand, that the remunerative appreciation of the police function is crucial to the capture of new elements and to make the career of the security forces more attractive. [[PSD applause.]] The current reality of low wages, in addition to causing widespread discontent and demotiveization of professionals who already belong to PSP and GNR, is a determining factor that needs to be reversed to attract younger people and promote the desirable rejuvenation of our police officers. For this reason, the PSD has repeatedly presented initiatives for the remunerative valuation of professional careers, including a proposal in the State Budget for 2023 for the review of the salary tables of GNR and PSP careers through a negotiation process between the Government and its representative structures. [[PSD applause.]] This proposal was cast with the vote against the socialist bench, but which has now been searched, or rather, copied or plagiarized by the Arrival, insofar as it presents today an initiative exactly the same as the PSD presented in the past. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u260	O Oofelia! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u261	Let me tell you that, in spite of this small detail, of course, we will follow the proposal of the Arrival, because what is important is the remunerative appreciation of the police function. Health and safety conditions at work is a theme that the PCP resumes, and rightly, at least in the objective. I say this — in its objective — because the health and safety conditions in the work of security forces and services are indeed very poor and require urgent action by the Government. As for the specific proposal of the CFP, we believe that it deserves a better reflection, a serious reflection on whether it is indeed the best legislative solution, because the safety and health conditions in the security forces and services have very different technical specificities from other positions, including within their own security forces and services. We know that this issue, as it is crucial for the operationality of the police function, is on the agenda of the government's negotiations with the structures representative of the security forces, but what is certain is that these negotiations have been interrupted, resumed, interrupted again and so far has not had any progress on the part of the government. At the end of July last, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration said that the areas in which these negotiations could be developed and these areas were precisely these, health and hygiene at work, and also the paid services table, which has not been updated since 2016. Once again, we see that there are many intentions, many proclamations by the government, but few, or none, the realizations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fact that Portugal is a safe country cannot be used as an argument by the Government to neglect, as it has done, the services and security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u263	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u264	I will finish, Mr. President. If we want to continue to be a safe country, the government must train the security forces and dignify its professionals. The PSD reaffirms its willingness here to find the best solutions, because we believe that it will only be possible to ensure a qualitative improvement of public services provided to citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u265	For a speech by the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u266	Mr President: The Left Block would like to welcome the CFP for the scheduling of this debate and say that the work of the security agents is very exhausting — it is exhausting by the functions, by the physical and emotional impact of the functions; it is exhausting by the extra work and picket time at night, at the end of the week, on holidays; and it is exhausting by the shiftwork regime. It is because it is exhausting that, like other shift workers, security agents must also be compensated for this work. They must be compensated with access to early retirement without penalties; they must be compensated with more holidays; they must be compensated with rest time between shifts and shift change; they must be compensated with careful and permanent monitoring of their health conditions and also with the guarantee of safety conditions in the exercise of their activities. Many times, the Left Block has already brought to this Parliament a bill to ensure these compensations to all shift workers, be private sector workers, be employees of the Public Administration and special careers. And we insist on the justice of these proposals. But there are also other injustices which have already been mentioned here today and which are under discussion. First of all, the issue of sustainability cuts. A person who has a pension whose access provides for an age which is anticipated by the recognition of the wear that the profession itself causes cannot have a cut in his pension. The PCP brings this proposal here and it is just because there is a group of workers that got stuck between 2014 and 2015, which was not covered by the end of the cut-off of the sustainability factor, that factor that had been applied. They stayed forever with a cut in your pension. Now, this makes no sense, and those workers who have stayed in this situation have the right to see their pension recalculated. In fact, we did this in relation to other professions that also had the cut-off of the sustainability factor, recognition of rapid wear and who saw their pensions recalculated. This was possible, for example, in relation to the workers of the prairies, so there is no reason not to do so in relation to the workers of the PSP. Finally, there is the question of working time. Working time has to have limits, in fact, the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works lay down both limits for additional working time. We cannot accept that there are no maximum limits for the provision of extraordinary work, people have the right to rest, they have the right to have their family life, they have the right to have their own personal life. Supplementary working time, overtime, must be paid, compensated, increased. The shift supplement and picket supplement cannot be confused with the additional work payment. The picket allowance is not intended to pay for additional work, but to compensate for those who have to work at night, who have to work on weekends, on holidays, under extraordinary and exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u267	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u268	Mr President, I conclude by saying precisely this: if more agents are to be hired, more agents are to be hired. What can not be unlimited additional work, until workers are exhausted, or unremunerated additional work, which is basically what is happening today, which is unfair and which these proposals, which we will follow, are aimed at correcting. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u269	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After two weeks since the last time the Assembly of the Republic discussed wage issues of the security forces and services, today we are debating issues that are related to the compensation due to the additional work, the review of the gratified table and the change in the pay rates of the PSP and the GNR. After eight years of socialist governance, we can conclude that these governments are unable to bring peace to this sector. It is said, in fact, that they are unable to bring peace to this sector or any other sector of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u272	The truth is that this government, not with the greatest tax burden ever, always, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — is capable of governing and managing the Public Administration. It is an astronomical collection of revenues that cannot solve wage problems and demands for better working conditions, from those working for the State, namely compensation for the additional work provided by security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u273	Mrs Gilvaz, allow me to interrupt you to ask your colleagues for a little more silence. [[And respect!]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u274	You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. I was saying that this astronomical revenue collection makes this a country where there are maximum taxes and minimum services. Today, some projects are presented to address these problems, and they point to some solutions that we cannot fully monitor. For example, the PCP cannot place the extra work, shift allowance and picket allowance in the same bag, as if it were all the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u276	That's what's happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u277	On the other hand, we cannot align with the idea that the provision of work by security forces and services can follow rules in everything similar to those of the General Law on Public Works. I know it's difficult, but the day is coming when the CFP will realize that, in a society where we are all different, the principle of equality cannot be synonymous with treating everything the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u279	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a doubt: where was the CFP when it supported the Socialist Government in management? Why has it not forced the introduction of something as simple as the conversion of additional work into compensation? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislation and wage components of the security forces and services give a handkerchief and the PS has, over the years, arranged more or less ingenious methods so that the effectives could have an increase in their maturity, as is the case with the gratified ones, who even have their own tax regime. Increasing the cost of the gratified would be synonymous with increasing the costs that will directly be borne by companies and citizens who need to use these services. When we talk about increasing taxes and taxes, we talk about Antonio Costa and its governance over the last eight years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u280	They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u281	People don't need more fees and taxes, but they need more economic freedom, which allows them to have more money in their pocket at the end of the month to put food on the table, or, then, to manage their money the way they understand well. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u282	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase of income by public administration workers, where security forces are, is a design of the government, of this parliamentary group, and has been based on a fair dialogue, a frank dialogue and with the possible balances that must always be made. It was in that sense of responsibility, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived here with historical levels of employment, with certain accounts, always reconciling income strengthening, updating pensions, with good public policies such as the universality of day care, the consecutive increase in family allowance, the allocation of school textbooks or, now, with the free transport for young people up to the age of 23, which involves 1.7 million young people and children. Above all, we always want to ensure the future sustainability of the solutions found, ensuring that different processes do not result in steps that need to be taken back. As regards internal security, the State budget report for 2024 is clear by ensuring that the work of the security forces, their working conditions, infrastructure and equipment will continue to be carried out, contributing to greater attractiveness in the exercise of police functions and to the qualitative improvement of the public service provided to citizens. We are carrying out and valuing the work of our security forces every day. We do so when we have an investment of EUR 607 million for infrastructure and equipment up to 2026. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the greatest investment ever in modernising, retraining and dignitying the working conditions of our men and women in the security forces. I recall the PSD that already in the previous programming cycle we executed 340 million euros, which was five times more than in the previous cycle from 2012 to 2016, which was 61 million. So it was not an announcement, it was concreteization and it was five times more. We have also improved the exercise of police conditions when we are carrying out the acquisition, requalification and construction of accommodation for our police officers, with EUR 60 million of investment for 300 accommodation in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. We also motivate them when we invest in improving remuneration conditions, an increase estimated at 20 % between 2023 and 2026. In 2023, the expected salary increase was even the largest in the last decade and in 2024 we will continue to increase the remuneration rates. This wage valuation also has an effect, as you know, on the variable supplement. We are also currently with the largest number of promotions in recent years, which results in remuneration gains. With regard to the initiatives under discussion today, and with regard to the draft PCP law on the sustainability and ordination of the calculation of all paid pensions, we must say that it is a matter of particular sensitivity. The application of the sustainability factor to the retirement pensions of PSP staff began, as for the remaining pensioner universe of the General Pension Fund, on 1 January 2008, as a result of the amendment of Law No 52 / 2007, which raises doubts as to the reason for limiting the elimination of the sustainability factor to PSP staff who have retired only from 7 March 2014 and until 1 November 2015. In fact, for the CFP, the reasons indicated for the elimination of the sustainability factor apply both to retired staff before and after that date, so, since there is no material reason enough to justify this discrimination, this measure has even doubtful constitutionality. Then this universe would have to be extended to staff retired since 1 January 2008, belonging to several professional groups. There are, in fact, many drag-off effects which the initiative does not care about.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u285	The sustainability factor, as you know, as well as the legal age of reform, are two fundamental pillars of the sustainability of our pension system, so, in addition to the budgetary impacts, there is the impact of Portuguese confidence in this system, so we cannot, in fact, ensure that this pension payment, present and future, can even be called into question. On the basis of the calculation of pension payments, we judge, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who open a dangerous precedent, because if we allow the calculation of pensions to promote the increase today, others, tomorrow, may use the same argument to promote a cut,... [[Protests by PCP members Alma Rivera and João Dias.]] ... and we are not available to open this Pandora box. On health and safety conditions at work, I would like to say that we are working on the Green Paper on the Future of Safety and Health at Work in Portugal in a cross-sectional manner, and we hope that some of the contributions of this initiative will be added to this more cross-cutting analysis when we have the Green Paper's conclusions. Finally, the issue of paid services, health and safety, as you know, is being reviewed in the orbit of the Ministry of Internal Administration, so we must wait for this important agenda of social dialogue that the current Minister has been starting. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, we will continue to provide our security forces with the conditions appropriate to the performance of their duties and the noble mission entrusted to them, as a guarantee that Portugal will continue to be recognized as one of the safest countries in the world in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're taking that path because we don't advertise. We here, in this bench and in the government, do. And we do well! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u286	I would like to tell the House that I have been very attentive to Mrs Susana Amador's intervention and, above all, the effort she has made to, despite her powerful voice, overcome the noise in the Chamber. I therefore ask for a little more restraint in the Chamber, because in this way it may be easier for us to direct the work and listen to each other. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u287	Mr President: It has already been said that the debate is about to deal equally with what is different. In fact, the CFP, which held this debate and brought initiatives, was accused of wanting to treat everything the same, when situations are different. I believe that, if I understand correctly, that is not exactly what is at stake. It is at stake that, being PSP professionals people who have a profession that is very worn-out — with a level of danger that we all recognize, under more difficult conditions — should be treated differently, because they are in a different situation. But there is one point where it is true that there is a question of equality here, within that difference. That is, among all PSP professionals, of what I understand, there are about a hundred who were affected by changes in the law on sustainability factor between 2014 and 2015 and then in 2017. From this point of view, it makes every sense that there is equality within the professional career of the PSP, at the same time as that career—with different conditions, being more dangerous and more insecure than the generals—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u288	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u289	...is to be treated differently... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] ...and that is why we support this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u290	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this important debate on security forces—it is important to stress that we are talking about security forces—I must say 'good morning, Mr José Soeiro, good morning, Block Left, the debate was about security forces'. I understand the Left Block can't talk about security forces. You can't, you don't have morals, you don't respect them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u292	Listen, listen, you have to hear better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u293	That is the big problem of the Left Block, which never respects the security forces and therefore today has not been able to talk about the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This debate is important and has proposals from both the CFP and the NAP. Proposals which the CFP and the Arrival have made repeatedly, because we are both always on the side of the security forces. Both here and in the commissions, both in the petitions, and when we have to receive someone, PCP and arrive are on this line from the front. But there's a big difference between us. The big difference is that the CFP supported a government solution. He has been supporting State budgets of the Socialist Party. And what did you do for the men and women of the security forces? Nothing. This is the big difference, it is that the Arrival has not supported any Socialist Party budget and you have supported it. Mrs Ofélia Ramos, we do not take PSD moral lessons in relation to security forces. We have dozens of proposals put forward in this Parliament on security forces. Even last week, we proposed an increase in the risk allowance to 500 €. You know what the PSD did? He abstained. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] That's what the PSD did — abstained! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is, security forces here, security forces there, but abstention. Mrs. Susana Amador, I praise your sacrifice. I must praise the sacrifice that you can make. Above all, when we had this morning at the first debate, a member of your party, Mr Pedro Anastácio — I do not know if he is present in the Chamber — who said: 'Well, the PSP and the GNR only do their work. » No, they do a great job, a great job with the worst conditions you give them! We must always praise our security forces, because without anything they can do much. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And more: but what attractiveness, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! The competitions have fewer people to compete with!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u294	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u295	I will finish, Mr. President. Does the honourable Member talk about attractiveness? Oh, my God! You can't do that, because you have to pay the security forces for the career to be attractive, but you can't do that. That is why Mrs Deputy spoke about day care, family allowance, free transportation, but that has nothing to do with the security forces. All this because you cannot get there and say: "A wage increase, yes, sir, a wage increase! Do not keep on seeking. ” Is it true that this government has increased, but how much has the cost of living increased? Have you noticed the difference between the wage increase that this government has given to the security forces and the increase in the cost of living? That's the account that has to be done, and that's the accounts...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u297	... that the men and women of the security forces do at the end of the month and that the Socialist Party does not want to do! That's all. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u298	As there is no longer time for interventions, we shall then turn to the closure of this item 3 of the agenda, giving the floor again to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP and to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u299	Finally, Mr President, we have heard a little of everything today to justify the lack of concrete measures, the lack of decisions. Some people come up with totally rash excuses, clinging to false questions. Others cling to an illusion, which is the idea that they are being able to counter the situation of degradation of working conditions in the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u300	Stay in empty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u301	And therefore neither one or the other seems to us enough to reject proposals that will solve immediate problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u303	But by now, I also mean that the Arrival has supported cuts in security forces and services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u304	Well, he supported it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u305	She's crazy! Less! Less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u306	...as it was in the PSD and CDS at the time they were implemented...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u307	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u308	Same situation! Nothing different!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u309	...and, therefore, politics is the same, you were there and, therefore, in a certain way, you cannot distance yourself so much from these policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u310	Exactly! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u311	We know the difference between what they say is in opposition and what they do later when they are in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u312	Was it the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u313	In fact, the Portuguese memory is not short enough to forget what happened to the PSD and CDS when the Members of the Commission arrived there too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u314	You're delirious! You're delirious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u315	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is essential for this debate to conclude is, more than any other question, that in the face of very specific, very specific problems, 120 retired agents who are damaged, because they were settled in that period of 2014 and 2015,... [[CH and PSD Member Protests Ofélia Ramos.]] ... may no longer be penalized for something that has been recognized as unjust. And therefore we cannot perpetuate an injustice just because of a lack of interest in solving it. I believe that it is not these 120 police who question the sustainability of social security. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, police functions are highly exhausting, they have known impacts, which are studied. Care must be taken with better conditions of health, safety and hygiene at work, and this means a concrete investment, particularly in mental health, but also in work medicine, which is something that everyone is entitled to, but to which these police officers are not having access and therefore action must be taken. And, finally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u316	It's really the end of it, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u317	It's really the end, Mr. President. It is true that no one can do extra work to remove it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u318	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u319	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u320	No one can be forced not to be with his family, not to have personal time in his life. And, therefore, all that is additional work must be regulated, it must be limited, and these workers cannot be harmed successively by the lack of action of the government in order to strengthen the effectiveness, and put them to work as a stamp,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u321	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u322	...to the detriment of their health and to the detriment of the public service. That's the point. And so the government needs to stop talking and start taking concrete action. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u323	Therefore, we have reached the end of the third item of the agenda. We now move on to the fourth point, which consists of the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos. 918 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Investing in a National Health Service of proximity and quality in Ovar as opposed to the relocation of the population to a local health unit, 572 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary procedures for the integration of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, Ovar, and primary health care, Ovar, in the Local Health Unit between the Douro and Vouga, 928 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the reference of the users of the Ovar municipality to the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga, 933 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of the Ovar Health Centre and 937 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening health care in Ovar in response to the needs of populations. I immediately give the floor to the Left Block to present the Resolution Project No. 918 / XV / 2. a, in particular, Mrs Isabel Pires. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block wants to greet the various people who have recently joined in Ovar for the defense of a National Health Service ( SNS ) that effectively responds to their needs. What we have found is that it is not only the health professionals who have rightly manifested themselves, but also the users. And that's important, because these are the people who defend a public health service. However, the government's revenue to supposedly solve SNS problems is already launched, it is the reorganization of SNS in local health units. And we have been clear about this: it's a way of trying to cover up problems and mislead users. Because, in fact, resource concentration solutions have already been carried out in the past, for example, with hospital centres, having had mediocre results, particularly in emptying smaller hospital units, in the overload of the most differentiated ones, in the worsening of the lack of SNS resources, from professionals to equipment. But we look specifically at the results of the evaluations made to the current local health units (ULS). The studies on the eight currently existing ULS, conducted by the Health Regulatory Entity and the Central Health System Administration, do not validate the arguments of the so-called efficiency, nor the arguments for improving health care to the population. on the contrary, they show that the average length of hospitalization up to the medical discharge of the patients of the local units was higher than that of the hospitals not integrated in ULS, that there were no gains at the level of coordination between primary health care and hospital health care, particularly with the reduction of unnecessary hospitalizations, and also showed that the response times, in view of the maximum guaranteed response time provided for in the legislation, for scheduling and carrying out complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, specialized consultations, scheduled surgeries, were not met in local health units and that the average length of stay at hospitalization increased in all local health units. But in addition to this, this type of organization, in seeking to place under a single hierarchical command hospitals and health centres, ends up having a « hospitalocentric» view, subordinate to primary health care, limiting its autonomy and conditioning the relationship of proximity with its patients and populations. In short, there is not much where to argue, with the reality of the existing ULS, that this model is better for the populations. But let's look at Ovar's concrete case. In fact, Ovar is tired of losing services, particularly in health care: she has lost maternity, emergencies have closed health extensions and few specialties in the hospital. at the same time, the population of Ovar has been very present with unmet promises to reactivate health centers, reactivating emergencies or other hospital services, never fulfilled promises. Now, what the government proposes, with this inclusion in the Aveiro ULS, is to tell the population, that it has already lost many health valences, that will eventually have to travel several tens of miles, and this if you do not have to go from Aveiro to Coimbra, because also in Aveiro you will have to go through several difficulties. It is therefore not acceptable to continue to penalise populations who already have difficulty in accessing health in the name of a superconcentration of services which, as we have already seen, does not solve the problems identified. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government decision only places health beyond the population and makes access more difficult, as it does not, even in cost-benefit criteria and does not respect or care for the will of the vast majority of the population of the Ovar municipality, and that is what we are trying to reverse today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u325	: To present draft resolution No 572 / XV / 1. Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of two new local health units in the Aveiro district, including the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga and the Local Health Unit of the Aveiro region, aims to be a new dimension in planning and organizing the provision of health care to the population, with the aim of consolidating relevant health gains, through the optimization and integration of care, the care proximity, the autonomy of management, always with the focus on users. This new approach will define the reorganization of the institutions of the National Health Service, which take on the care response in an integrated way of various levels of care. The principle of free access and movement, when conferring on the users of the National Health Service the possibility of opting for any hospital, does not diminish the importance of factors such as proximity and access, and should be considered as a real factor of importance in the definition for the integration of the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, Ovar, and the Health Center of Ovar. The geographical proximity of the municipality of Ovar to the hospital units of the Hospital Center of Entre Douro and Vouga, in particular the Hospital of São Sebastião, is a natural attraction factor, when weighing the demand for emergency services and differentiated care. As a plan for reorganization and vertical integration of care in that region is under way, it is not understandable to ignore the usual and proven free choice of users and to integrate Ovar's health care into the future Local Health Unit of the Aveiro region, as agreed between the Ministry of Health and the Intermunicipal Community of the Aveiro Region. The population of the municipality of Ovar, usually and in its large majority, accesses health care in hospitals of Santa Maria da Feira and Vila Nova de Gaia, which are 20 and 40 km away, to the detriment of the hospitals of Aveiro and Coimbra, which are 50 and 100 km away, respectively. 15 % of the production of the Hospital Centre between Douro and Vouga is related to Ovar users, while only 0, 5 % of the production of the Down Vouga Hospital Centre corresponds to users of that municipality. These figures clearly demonstrate the natural flow of users of the Ovar municipality, thus making no sense to force the integration of Ovar health care into the Local Health Unit of the Aveiro Region, neither from a social point of view, nor from the point of view of good management of public resources. It is for the defense of Ovar users and for the sound management of the resources of the national health system that we directly disagree with the decision that was made, but also the position of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The project that the PSD presents here today recommends to the Government the reference of the users of the Ovar municipality to the Local Health Unit between the Douro and Vouga. In other words, the reference to the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga is recommended to the Government because it agrees that the Ovar Hospital and the Ovar Health Centres integrate the Local Health Unit of the Aveiro Region, because, if not, it did not need to recommend such reference. If Ovar Hospital and Ovar Health Centres integrate the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga, the reference to the north will be automatic. What the PSD today presents neither defends the population of Ovar nor defends the sound management of public resources. For the PSD, the Ovar Hospital and the Ovar Health Centres are located in the Local Health Unit of the Aveiro Region, but the ovaries will have many of their health care in the Local Health Unit between the Douro and Vouga, that is, people on one side, financial, technical and human resources on the other—I repeat: people on the one hand, financial, technical and human resources on the other. The PSD only presents this recommendation so that we can continue to say in Ovar one thing and in Lisbon another. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So today they present this hybrid proposal, which neither defends the Ovar population nor defends the management of public resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u327	It's a trans proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u328	Today, the Socialist Party defends what it has always defended, and what it will always defend, clearly, without hybrid proposals, without malabarism: the only way to defend the ovaries and public management is to integrate the Ovar Hospital and Ovar health centers into the Local Health Unit between the Douro and Vouga. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u329	To present the Resolution Project no. 928 / XV / 2. a, from the PSD, has the floor of Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing five draft resolutions on a matter of great importance to the Ovar Council. That is why, Mr President, allow me to greet my fellows who are attending this discussion in the audience, highlighting the presence of the Members. President and Vice-President of the Municipal House, as well as Mr. President of the Municipal Assembly. [[PSD applause.]] Given this, a first previous note: PSD is in favour of the creation of local health units. The divergence with the Socialist Party is at the level of how it intends to move forward. It is the understanding of this parliamentary bench that the process should be carried out phased in dialogue with the autarchs and populations. A second important note: we are not against the creation of the Aveiro and Between Douro and Vouga ULS. The integration and articulation of primary health care, as well as hospitals, if well implemented, can effectively translate into gains for citizens. It is therefore important to clarify what is at stake in the draft resolution which we have submitted to this House's assessment. Within the framework of the reorganization of the National Health Service, which generalizes local health units, the government decided to integrate the municipality of Ovar in the Aveiro ULS, a decision that implies the reference of the users of this municipality, with 55 000 inhabitants, to the Aveiro Hospital. Now, for the ovaries and for the ovary population it is completely incomprehensible the non-integration of Ovar in the ULS of Entre Douro and Vouga as a reference to the Hospital de Santa Maria da Feira. Those who know the geography of the territory and the pendulum movements of the population of the district cannot accept nor understand a decision like this of the Government of the Socialist Party. Ovar is 15 to 20 minutes away from Feira Hospital and about an hour away from Aveiro. The SNS Executive Director and the Minister of Health have been alerted in a timely manner to this gross error. At the beginning of 2023, the PSD questioned the government in this House. In fact, now, when confronted with the opposition of the population and the autarchs of all—all! — the political quadrants in all the municipal bodies where the Socialist Party is included, the Minister of Health was unable to justify the injustice. [[PSD applause.]] It was limited to recall that the law enshrines the principle of free access and movement of SNS users, which allows them to opt for any hospital. If so, why did the government insist on opposing the logic and the natural order of things, penalizing the 55 ovaries? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD was right when it argued that the creation of the ULS should be done differently and in dialogue with the populations. The project presented by the PSD here recommends that the government not integrate Ovar into the Aveiro ULS. Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, if you have not noticed, we say again: what the PSD defends is the non-integration of Ovar in the Aveiro ULS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u332	In the project of arrive, we do not understand the recommendation. Either it's a grate or they don't actually know the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u333	It's a grate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u334	As for the draft resolution submitted and signed by the Aveiro Members of the Socialist Party, we shall have our vote in favour. In fact, in the Health Commission, we had the opportunity to congratulate the PS on finally agreeing on this matter, when it is known the misfortune that all and various parties and socialist governance have done to health in the city of Ovar. We could report a number of cases, but in fact we have already said it here several times. Finally, Mr President, I wish that the Government of the Socialist Party reconsider this case and do not force, once again, Prime Minister Antonio Costa, to regret having expressed himself badly when he said, and I quote: "Absolute majority is not absolute power, it is not to rule alone. We hope so. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u335	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To put it forward, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Madureira, we should remember the story a little bit, and we remember that it took place in December 2022 when we warned about this problem, when options were being studied, and I remember well the local PSD, Ovar, to which Mrs Deputy belongs, saying that our concern was extemporaneous. But I also recall, for example, the vote in the CIRA (Inter-municipal Community of the Aveiro Region), of which the President of the Ovar Municipal Chamber, who unanimously chose not to vote, chose to leave the room. So when she talks about integration, what I'd like you to tell me is where she is in the project she is presenting here, and I'm going to read her title, Mrs. Deputy: "It recommends to the Government the reference of the users of the Ovar municipality to the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga". The reference!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u337	That's it! And we want integration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u338	That is to say, we want integration, Mrs Deputies, because if it is integrated, reference is not required.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u340	She said that she considered non-integration in the Aveiro region, and, at this point two, when she asked for reference, she said clearly that she considered that she was still, as expected, in the Aveiro region and that only the reference to Santa Maria da Feira was made. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is something that distinguishes us well, which distinguishes both parties. It is that the PSD and the Member of Parliament accept integration in Aveiro since there is a reference to the north, but we do not. What we find correct, from the user's point of view, from the point of view of good management of public resources, is Ovar's health care to integrate the Local Health Unit of Between Douro and Vouga. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u341	In reply, Mrs Carla Madureira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u342	Mr. President, Mr. Deputies, you didn't understand what I said. [[It's normal!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u343	He did not realize and it is normal that he does not understand, as it is normal for us to realize that there is now a nervousness on the part of the members of the Aveiro PS because they were alone in the draft resolution they presented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u344	No, we haven't.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u345	They were alone, in the wake of their Ministry and the Minister of Health. Sir, I will repeat to you, with all clarity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u346	Read there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u347	I don't need to. Did you read? I'll answer, because you didn't ask to read. You know how to read and I'll answer! Do you know what I'm going to answer? I'm going to repeat what I said, the rostrum, and that's the will of the people of Ovar, the Autarchs of Ovar, the people of the vareira. Do you know what it is? It is not to go to the Aveiro Hospital, it is to integrate the ULS of Between Douro and Vouga. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]] That is what we hope, Mr President, is that your Government will not do to Ovar what it has done and that is very sad for the local population: it has closed the maternity ward, has closed the emergency ward, has closed the pediatric service, has closed the local health units and now wants to force people to go to Aveiro. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]] Look, honourable Member, I ask you a question: how are you going to vote on our project? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Members Hugo Oliveira and Susana Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u348	For the presentation of the Resolution Project No 933 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — It recommends that the Government maintain the Ovar Health Centre, Mr Pedro Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u349	Ex. Mr. President of some Members, Ex. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, ladies and gentlemen. Presidents of the House and of the Ovar Municipal Assembly: Our contribution and thanks for bringing this debate here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u350	Is there a petition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u351	Last Wednesday, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we heard Mr. Prime Minister, Mr.António Costa, in a fortnight debate, saying that the Portuguese would be really outraged by so many criticisms of this House to the newly arrived power of Mr. António Costa. Indeed, it is the greatest injustice to hold the Socialist Party leader accountable for the total chaos of public services, especially in the area of health! Imagine, this beginner of public life, this passion of politics, this novice in government positions, after all, has every right to his state of royal grace! In addition, the Portuguese still have the heavier consciousness because they have reached the emergencies in the few hospitals in which they are still open. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party and the dying management, let's see, Dr. António Costa is Prime Minister, but it's not eight months or eight days ago. He is Prime Minister eight years ago, and therefore he cannot continue to say that the blame is for the troika, that the blame is for the Steps, that the blame is for the pandemic, that the war is to blame—and now, see, come here and say, 'The fault is yours, it is the people's fault, their hypochondriacs that flood the urgents of the hospitals'! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, the daily problems that are living in Ovar, in Aveiro district, and that today we are discussing are not exclusive to Ovar. On the contrary, there are general problems throughout Portugal : Bombarral, Bragança, Sixcal, Forte da Casa — in Vila Franca de Xira —, Amora, Ribamar, Lourinhã, Queluz, Vila do Bishop, Loures, Braga, Silves, Leiria, Porto de Mos, finally, could be listing all day! By the logic of the argument used by Prime Minister António Costa, the fault of the chaos in these public health services is even the users are not healthy and do not connect to the SNS 24. The blame must also be on the municipalities and, of course, on the Holy House of Mercy of Ovar, which decided to make a hospital in 1814. That is why, in addition to using a third hand hidden to steal the Portuguese, this government has two sides. With one face, he says, in interview with the Express, that doctors are the heroes of the pandemic; with the other face, when he thought that the camera of the Express was off, he says that the death of the elderly in the homes is of the coward doctors. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With one face, promise a family doctor to all Portuguese and, with the other face, come to say that it is fatal to have nearly 1 million Portuguese without family doctors than we had in 2015, when they arrived here, to the power cadres. This three-handed and two-sided government causes unprecedented dissatisfaction in the populations, in the buildings, doctors, nurses, health assistant technicians, diagnostic technicians; finally, everyone is saying enough, everyone in Portugal is saying enough. And never as today have been so mistreated by an absolutely irresponsible majority government. Never as today the Portuguese felt that third hand hidden from the tax collector. And for what? For a chaotic health service and on the brink of collapse. The Government of three hands and two sides has now announced the creation of 31 local health units for 2024, including Aveiro ULS, where they tend to relocate Ovar services. Of course, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that the ovaries are asking us the opposite and that almost all the political parties here today accompany us. And why will it be? Is it because the average length of hospitalization in the ULS that already exists in the country is higher than the time of hospitals? Is it because the percentage of outpatient surgeries was lower than in hospitals? Is it because we have maximum response times guaranteed for exams, consultations and surgeries in non-compliance in the ULS? Is it because ULS hospitals have less resources than other hospitals? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the four main reasons why the creation of these ULS is nothing more than the setting up of a problem that this government does not want to solve. In fact, with the PS governments it is always the same pantomime: they deal with everything, but they don't solve anything. Now, the Portuguese know well that members of the privileged political class do not know the real SNS, because, of the two, they either enter directly through the upper floors of public hospitals or, then, prefer private services, because their bank accounts thus allow. But he's here and he's not tired of defending the Portuguese, the SNS and his professionals. The arrival is here with solutions such as today's, which recommends the maintenance of the Ovar Health Center. The arrive puts your finger on the open wound and for treating, so that one day we can all have a quality SNS in good time and for everyone. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u352	Mr. Miguel Santos is calling for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u353	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u354	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u355	Mr. President, we may be distracted—it is not customary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u356	Maybe they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u357	... because we are always trying to be very careful—but the honourable Member of the Arrival referred several times to a petition and to petitioners. Well, we didn't find any petitions...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u358	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u359	... and therefore we were asking the Bureau if there is indeed added to this point that we are discussing, some petition or to which the honourable Member of the Chamber was referring objectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u360	But there's a petition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u361	You don't know! What you would earn if you were quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u362	No citizens' petitions are scheduled for today's agenda. Has Mr Pedro Pinto asked for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u363	Yes, for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u364	You know what we've got...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u365	Yes, Mr. President. It is only to mention Mr Miguel Santos that there really exists a petition. It is not under discussion today, but there is a petition about the Ovar Health Center. [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u366	He's distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u367	So there's a petition. Now that there is no knowledge of Mr. Miguel Santos, look: study! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u368	It's the cops what you can or can't say! They're line tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u369	For the presentation of the Resolution Project No 937 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening health care in Ovar in response to the needs of populations, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, allow me to send a welcome and warm compliment to the entire Ovar population, which, concerned with access to health care, has naturally manifested itself in favour of defending that same access. The need for greater articulation and coordination between the various levels of care is evidence and is known. There have long been identified the difficulties that exist in articulating primary health care, hospital care and also continuous integrated care. Of course, with the complexity of care, this difficulty of coordination and articulation of the most diverse levels of care has been aggravated. The truth is that this difficulty of hospitals to improve access to the population has not been facilitated by the creation of local health units. The government is coming to announce, Mr. Members, the largest reform of the National Health Service, not by the voice of the Minister of Health, but by the voice of the Executive Director of the SNS. And it is seen that this major reform has in such a way « clay feet », which « to the first cave, a minhoca », precisely in Ovar, but also in other regions, as in Santarém. A little across the country, the population is concerned, confronts itself with changing the organization of care, leading to its access being conditioned. The announcement of the SNS Executive Directorate to integrate the Ovar Hospital, the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo, into a possible local health unit in the Aveiro region brought a very great concern because this was done at the expense of the interests of the population of Ovar and without any prior consultation to the population and health professionals of the SNS. For the PCP, we have the solution. The proposal has to do with the need to create, yes, local health systems that respect the autonomy of each of the institutions involved: primary health care, hospital care and continuing care. This, yes, is to integrate care rather than the 'hospitalocentrism' advocated by this model, particularly that of local health units. Yes, we need to create a way to better articulate these care. Therefore, the PCP defends, as an alternative to this model, a greater investment in the units of the SNS, in the municipality of Ovar, in particular, at the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo and its health centers, providing them with financial resources and human resources, with a greater link between the hospital and health centers of the ACES region (group of health centers) of Lower Vouga. Therefore, we advocate the non-integration of the Ovar hospital and primary health care into local health unit, above all, as a public enterprise entity, which represents the internal market of the National Health Service as very worrying, as regards access to the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u371	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me also to pay special tribute to the authorships and the ovaries present today in the galleries, to follow this point in particular. At the end of August, the government announced, like the major reform of the SNS to 2024, the creation of new local health units. It is a 24-year-old solution—the first one was created in 1999 and today there are eight in operation— which did not present the expected results. It is a model that points to an integrated management of primary and hospital health care and, with this, benefits were expected in the proximity of access to health care, in reducing waiting times for consultations and surgeries, in reducing the use of hospital emergencies, in unnecessary hospitalizations or on days of hospitalization. However, these advantages did not occur, as was demonstrated in the study carried out in 2015 by the Health Regulatory Entity, and, as a whole of the indicators analyzed, there was no conclusion that there was a better performance by the ULS. Therefore, it is important to understand why this model is chosen and also how it will be implemented and why, because there was no prior dialogue or linkage with the entities involved, of course, with professional orders and with the authorities. The rules and criteria for their implementation are not known. How will decentralization in health operate with this ULS system? It's just that not even the municipalities, the locals, you know. The decree-law was passed in the Council of Ministers on 14 September, but so far—and I remember that we are almost at the end of October— nothing has yet been published. However, the ULS is listed in an office this week of the Secretary of State. This whole process is developing with a huge lack of transparency, with many questions to be raised and few or no answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u373	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but clearly there is a lot of noise in the Chamber. [[Pause.]] I think you've come down a bit now. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The ovaries deserve respect and attention from the Members on this issue. As I was saying, this whole process is developing with a huge lack of transparency, with many questions to be raised and few or no answers. The result is the challenge that this great reform by 2024 is generating. Look at the initiatives we are discussing here today, only concerning Ovar. It's just that even the PS has one! More: Neither the Minister of Health nor the Executive Director of the SNS have been able to answer a basic question, which is this: with these 39 ULS, the Government ensures that the waiting lists for consultations and surgeries will be reduced and that everyone will finally have family doctors? It's just, for starters to talk, that's what the Portuguese want to know. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this so-called reformer has nothing, and demonstrates once again that the government has no strategic vision for health; yes, it has a total incapacity for dialogue. The Liberal Initiative has already presented a truly reforming proposal, the SUS Health (Universal System of Access to Health), which, yes, a structural solution, courageous and innovative, which would guarantee all true universal access to health care and not waiting lists, with true freedom of choice and not only within the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u375	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u376	This solution would introduce incentives for the efficiency of the system as a whole, for innovation, for prevention, for the provision of better health care and, yes, would dignify professionals. Have you, from one end to another, approved this solution? No, no, no. They did not even give him the opportunity to be discussed and worked in the specialty. Therefore, it remains for you to continue to present on-the-spot initiatives, on a case-by-case basis, the locality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u377	Don't let them solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u378	Today, we are discussing whether the Ovar hospital should go to the Aveiro ULS or to the ULS between the Douro and Vouga. In the coming months, we will be having the same discussion for numerous other cases: there comes Keys defending the creation of a new ULS, Ourem will defend that he wants to be in the Middle Tejo ULS and not in Leiria, and Mr. Prime Minister will answer case by case— « it is to make choices». But what the Portuguese know is that this Prime Minister never chooses to make a real reform. Is this what the Portuguese are waiting for from a government? Is that what the Portuguese are waiting for from Parliament? Proposals for remedies? Do you move here and there and nothing changes at all? Surely not. Surely that is not our position. With regard to health in Portugal, with a collapse system, what Portuguese, from users to professionals, know that only the Liberal Initiative has a proposal, a reform, which gives true universal access to health. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u379	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Compliance not only with all those present in the Chamber, but also with the autarchs who are here, in the galleries, in representation of the council of Ovar. This debate, despite being about health in Ovar, reflects again what is a cross-sectional reality throughout the country, namely about the type of National Health Service we want for the country. It is a debate that has been held, but very little has been done in terms of progress. The NAP has defended a service of proximity, prevention, but it is also necessary to have objectives to bring greater proximity to populations, side by side with their needs. Speaking of the needs of the Ovar council and the various initiatives here in demand, we must not forget that the population has joined against the Ministry of Health's claim to refer the users of this council to the local health unit in the Aveiro region, an option that will prove to divert access from the population to the SNS. Moreover, it is factual that the ULS model proposed for Ovar, by the government, is unable to solve the problems of access to health either in Ovar, or in other parts of the country where it was applied. We can therefore not stop criticizing all this ideological bias, which, both on the left and on the right, has brought no real solutions. But the most important thing is to ensure access to the health of the population. This has to be first. Although the projects under discussion today have different solutions, it is important that, in particular, there is the ability to find a model that can serve the populations. From what has been announced by both PS and PS, we hope that, in the end, after work in the field of specialty, the ovaries and also the other population are all better served at the level of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u381	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u382	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Dear Citizens in the galleries: I would like to welcome in particular the citizens who have come from Ovar, to attend a debate on the health needs of their land. Welcome! I would like, on behalf of the Free, to join our voice with the draft resolutions—in particular the draft resolutions of the Bloc, which dealt with this debate—which fight for proximity health care provided by the National Health Service, by our public health service, which does not need a reform in order to retire and move on to something else that, in theory, could serve—but, as it is said in Brazil, « in theory, practice is another». The practice we have in Portugal, since the National Health Service was created, is at a service that everyone serves, but that everyone has to arrive, a service that has to have enough resources to be able to have this proximity policy, ending once and for all with its subordination. The solution to stop overburdening the National Health Service is very simple: it is budgeting it properly, it is giving it the resources it needs in order to be able to provide the service that everyone in Portugal — continents and islands, from North to South, and certainly in the Ovar municipality and its region — need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u383	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u384	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Hugo Oliveira, after having heard that the local health units will be the safeguard of the organization of care, I want to ask you if you really have that feeling.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u385	It's really serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u386	I can tell you about the local health units. Look, I can talk about Beja, for example! Do you know the reality of the Local Health Unit of Lower Alentejo, in Beja? What about the Alentejo Coastal, Portalegre? Would you like more? You want me to tell you more? Castelo Branco, Guarda, Bragança... All these local health units, which have the model now proposed by the government, have not only improved, as have even increased access to the health care of the population. This is therefore the solution that the Government is proposing, in fact, in disagreement with its bench. But we can ask: why do the government and the PS want to implement this model at all costs throughout the country after they have extinguished the ARS(regional health administrations)? Why do you want to implement this model? The answer is very simple: it's because they know it's going to degrade the National Health Service and that's what you're betting on doing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u387	Hey! It wasn't nice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u388	To close the debate, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I refer to some notes at the end of this debate, starting with the project presented by the Arrival. I'm sorry to say this is a project that you don't know what you're talking about. The title reads: « Recommends to the Government the maintenance of the Ovar Health Centre ». Then the deliberative part says: « Not to include the Ovar municipality in the local Ovar health unit ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u390	It's a grate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u391	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no local health unit in Ovar and there is not even a matter of maintaining the health centre or not. Therefore, it is very good that you do not know what you are talking about, you do not know reality, and that is why it is not to count on this project. As for the other projects, there is a note that is important here to leave. Both PSD and PS, in fact, continue to defend the ULS, local health units, and one of the major criticisms that is made, especially by the populations, is exactly the model of ULS. As I said in my initial speech and as mentioned above, the models of ULS that exist in operation indicate that there are difficulties of access. In fact, data from the reports of the Health Regulatory Entity and the Central Health System Administration themselves tell us that the ULS are not working well and that they do not solve the problems that they now say they want to solve. Therefore, given this, we do not think that we can actually follow this idea that the ULS are the model that will solve the problem. They're not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! People are saying this, doctors and health professionals themselves have come to say it, and therefore we cannot come here and be dubious with draft resolutions that say that it is necessary to "create conditions" and "consider non-inclusion". We need to be clear on this: either we want this Ovar population to be included in an ULS or we do not want this population to continue to have access to nearby health services, which are correct and which make sense, or we do not want to. Therefore, the appeal and the challenge we leave, at the end of this debate, is that the projects can effectively be approved, so that, in particular, we can reach a definition, a concrete text, which unequivocally defends the population of Ovar and defends the right of the population of Ovar to access nearby health services. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u392	We have moved on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the timeless assessment of the motion for a resolution No 18 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part, made in Brussels on 14 December 2022. The sixth point is followed by the assessment of the budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2024, also without time for interventions, with the agreement of all, as it was approved by the Board of Directors. We then turn to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the voting period. I would ask the services which open the quorum verification system, please. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Paula Santos. All right, they're manually registered. I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum. I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel to report on the withdrawal of initiatives by proposers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u393	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I inform you that there was the withdrawal of Bill No 365 / XV / 1. a (PAN) and the Resolution Project No. 884 / XV / 2. a ( L).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u394	Our first deliberations on the Vote Project No. 483 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Grief for all victims resulting from Hamas's terrorist attacks against Israel. There are requests from parliamentary groups to intervene in this debate, which is regimental — 2 minutes per parliamentary group that you intend to do so and 1 minute for each single Member. The Rules of Procedure provide that the reading of the vote may be waived in the event of a debate. I believe, however, that it is worth reading this draft vote, until then we have a request from the Left Block, so that it can be voted on by points. Thus, I read the Vote Project No. 483 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Unfortunately for all the victims resulting from Hamas' terrorist attacks against Israel : « The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: 1. Condemns absolutely, immediately and unequivocally the terrorist attacks of Hamas in Israel last Saturday, October 7, expressing its deepest sorrow for the victims of these attacks, especially children, and solidarity with the families and friends of these victims and the Israeli people; 2. Reaffirms its recognition of the right of the State of Israel to defend itself against acts of terrorism under international law; 3. Calls for the release of all hostages and kidnapped persons and for the end of hostilities; 4. Calls for no cut-off of access to water, food or energy and for humanitarian corridors to be created to provide all aid and support to the Palestinian people and innocent civilians in the Gaza Strip ; 5. It expresses its support for all efforts to extend the circle of peace in the region and to guard the national aspirations of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples, through the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through the way of peace, respect for the self-determination of peoples and full respect for human rights based on the two-State solution, in line with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and with previous agreements signed between Israelis and Palestinians. Do not keep on seeking. ” We shall now proceed to the speeches of the parliamentary groups that have requested it. Mr Ventura has the floor for the parliamentary group of arriving.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u395	Mr President of a few seats in this Parliament, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: At some of the points of this vote will be abstained, especially because of the lack of clarification that we still have to seek. This war did not start by spontaneous generation. This war didn't start because it started. This war has begun and has an author. The author is a terrorist group, which is Hamas, who attacked a democratic state, which is Israel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u396	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u397	This is the beginning of this conflict and this must be clarified. Then it is not enough to make vows for the hostages to be delivered. It must be clear, of course, that neither Israel nor any country in the world can negotiate anything without the hostages being released without any conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u399	These men and women were not military or paramilitary, nor were they involved in any military attack or defense. They were young people who were having fun in music festivals, men and women, women who saw murdered men, women who were kidnapped and transported in cages to areas of the Gaza Strip. This is not a conflict between equal and this has to be clear in a vote like this. But also, how can we not remember the obvious? In the last few days, we were all confronted with a guide that Hamas left in several areas of the occupied area. This guide... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ... explains how to enter people's homes, how to torture them, how to blame them, how to rape them, how to behead them, and how to kill them. My friends, this is not a war between equals. This is a war between brutal atrocities and monsters and democracies that have to fight them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And that is not in the draft vote here today. Finally, it's not worth everything in this war. Unfortunately, some of this Parliament's benches have been set up with lies behind lies, in relation to the most basic and elementary elements of war. I have here—to finish, because the intervention time is short—a tweet from the leader of the Left Block that says: «Today, Israel has reached a hospital in Gaza, killing 500 people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u400	It's to shut down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u401	We all know today that this is a pure lie and that whoever attacked a hospital in Gaza was a diverted missile from Islamic Jihad. Even so, despite the denial of States such as Britain, the United States and Israel, of various countries in Europe and the President of the European Commission, the lie continues to spread as fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u402	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u403	That's what we can't afford. As long as this clarity is not in this draft vote, it will not be entirely in favour of it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u404	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP accompanies this draft vote presented, but, contrary to the bank of the Arrival, for the NAP, there are no borders for human rights. If there is any inequality here, it is clearly for the Palestinian people, which cannot be confused with Hamas. If we effectively condemn and repudiate the absolutely barbarous action and attack of Hamas against Israel and solidarity with all the victims, this solidarity must be done for the victims on both sides of the border, for all children, all the abused women, all those who, before this absolutely horrendous and barbarous war, see no solution in view, unless the international community effectively endeavours to cooperate in peace and on the one who has to be a humanitarian cord, and the financial support of the European Union itself is necessary to get help to both sides. Palestine cannot be confused with Hamas in any way, in the same way as Israel does not be confused with its representatives. Now, to come to speak in inequality when Palestine has the right to self-determination and the Palestinian people have been massacred over these years is to make a historic blackout with which the NAP does not compact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u406	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Antonio Guterres is currently on the Rafah border. On behalf of the UN ( United Nations ), it is begging — as the UN Secretary-General says — the rapid and unimpeded transition of humanitarian aid to all needy civilians. In the midst of the horror and agony of the last days, we needed Antonio Guterres' words to be heard, we needed to hear his call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in the Middle East. Israel officially reacted to Guterres' appeal through the insult, publicly declaring, and I quote: "It seems that the UN Secretary-General's main priority is to help terrorists. » This is the degree of delirium and blindness. What is happening in Gaza, before our eyes, is a crime of genocide. The unequivocal condemnation of the crimes that Hamas committed on 7 October of the unequivocal condemnation of these crimes and of the terror that this Parliament must do cannot be a free passage for the killing that has been taking place since then. Only in the first week of retaliation, the State of Israel launched 6,000 bombs on Gaza,... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] ... almost as many as NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) used throughout the war in Libya. Human Rights Watch confirmed the use of white phosphorus, banned munition in areas of great population density. The total siege that the Government of Israel has imposed, since 9 October, on the people of Gaza, deprived of access to energy, food, water, goods of first need, private to the right of escape, is an unforgivable war crime. There can be no silence about it. This draft vote will be voted on point-by-point. We, the Left Block, condemn Hamas, demand the release of hostages, repudiate the siege to Gaza, call for peace. of the 2 million inhabitants of Gaza, half of whom children, about 1 million have already lost or had to leave their homes; more than 2600 people have been killed by Israeli attacks; 12 journalists have lost their lives; 14 UN and 5 Red Crescent officials have been killed. In East Jerusalem and the West Bank, Israeli military forces and armed settlers have increased the violence and murder of civilians. Is this the defense of a country? Is this self-defense? How many more thousands of civilians will have to be killed until self-defense is accomplished? How many more thousands of deaths lead to supposed proportionality? What is happening is not the exercise of the right to self-defense by Israel; it is a massacre, it is a horror, it is a succession of crimes, it is a genocide that has to be stopped by now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u408	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u409	I conclude, Mr President, by saying only this: that Europe hears Guterres, that the world hears Guterres, that this Parliament hears Guterres. The urgency is an immediate ceasefire. [[Congratulations from BE, L and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u410	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u411	Mr President, Dear colleagues : This draft vote has a lot of content that comes from a vote presented by the Free and approved by the Committee on Foreign Affairs more than a week ago. We made efforts, including to ensure that there was agreement on a first version of the text, so that we could have voted on the first occasion the absolute, immediate and unequivocal condemnation — these words were, in fact, used in this text of the Book and are now in this draft vote — of the terrorist organization Hamas, as well as other elements, such as the call for humanitarian corridors to be opened and to ensure access to water, food and electricity by the people of the Gaza Strip, which was also in that vote of the Book. However, the Book has withdrawn the signature of this text that we are voting on today, because there is a clause that we thought essential that it was there, in which it is recognized that Israel has the right to defend itself, in accordance with international law—that is, it has no less right than any internationally recognized State in the world, nor has it more right than any internationally recognized State in the world. In addition, it should also be noted that in the view of Portugal, any violation of international humanitarian law is condemned. We believe that this should be said, because these violations are already taking place — Mr Prime Minister told us here on the other day of the rostrum. There are two very simple principles: firstly, where there is a child and a weapon, we must be on the side of the child, against the weapon, whatever the child, whatever the people it is and whoever the weapon is from; secondly, if there is a two-State solution, which is the only one that can bring peace, it is necessary to recognize the two States, Portugal must recognize the independence of Palestine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u412	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group expresses its deep regret at the victims of the current escalation of violence in Palestine and Israel as well as at the tens of thousands of Palestinian, Syrian, Lebanese, Egyptian, Jordanian and Israeli victims as a result of 75 years of denial of the rights of the Palestinian people and violations of international law by Israel. The PCP departs and condemns, as always, the acts of violence that target populations and victimize innocent people. The CFP condemns Israel's escalation of war against the Palestinian people and, in particular, indiscriminate bombings, blocking and threatening an even more cruel attack on the Palestinian population in the Gaza Strip, placing it between death and expulsion. Denouncing the deep hypocrisy of imperialism in the face of the Palestinian issue, we condemn attempts to silence and prevent legitimate manifestations of solidarity with the Palestinian people. We reaffirm the urgency of a political solution that guarantees the realization of the sovereign and independent State of Palestine, with the 1967 borders, and capital in East Jerusalem, and the realization of the right to return refugees, in accordance with UN resolutions. Peace in the Middle East requires respect for the inalienable national rights of the Palestinian people. The vote presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs does not properly and strictly take the necessary approach to the situation in Palestine and the political situation, without which a just and lasting peace will never be achieved in the region. He expresses his sorrow for the Israeli victims, choosing to ignore the Palestinian and Israeli victims, who have succumbed to the bombings in recent days. He calls for not cutting electricity, water and energy when they've been cut more than a week ago. On the other hand, the expression in the vote that Israel has the right to defend itself... [[CH protests.]] ... in the current context, it has the perverse meaning of constituting an incentive to Israel's aggression to the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u414	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u415	The path to peace will only be possible, not with the appeal for hatred or more violence, but with justice for the Palestinian people, with respect for international law, with the realization of a political solution through the fulfilment of the relevant UN resolutions with a view to Israel's policy of occupation and oppression. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u416	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u417	Mr President: On the first working day, after what happened on 7th, we tabled in this House a vote of condemnation for terrorist acts and for that barbarity that Hamas committed, not only about Israelis, but about citizens of various nationalities. We have reached the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, with a number of votes, from several parties, also from the Group of the European People's Party, and what has been said is that we should arrive at a common vote coming out of the Commission with this condemnation, we have withdrawn our vote against this objective. With some sadness, only today are we making this vote with a common text, when we should have done it a week ago, but here we are. We see in this text, as we see in what has been the historical position of the Portuguese State with regard to the situation in that area of the globe. In general, the international community must focus on four points: to condemn terrorism, to release hostages, to humanitarian aid — to ensure that it exists and that it happens and that it reaches people, civilians! — and in the quite assertive appeal to respect for international law and humanitarian law. That's what we should all agree on. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u418	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote we shall vote shortly reflects a great consensus, not only in this House, but also in Portuguese society. The consensus — I think — is made around some, I would say, teacher paths about what is the general thought in relation to what happened last October 7th. This vote ultimately and unequivocally condemns terrorism and barbaric attacks by the Hamas terrorist group against the innocent and defenseless Israeli civilians. On the other hand, this vote also expresses its solidarity with the State of Israel, with the families, and also makes an appeal that the hostages, who are still being kidnapped by this terrorist group today, may be released and may return to their homes. This vote also guarantees the recognition of this House, and which has also been the recognition of all the authorities in our country, that the State of Israel has the right to defend itself under international law. However, this vote also ensures that the Assembly of the Republic continues to endorse the principles of the same international law and of humanist and universalist principles that apply on any side, on any location or territory of this world. And in this sense, therefore, we believe in the PSD Parliamentary Group that the broad consensus to which it was possible to reach and that it will allow a position of the Assembly of the Republic is a humanist consensus, solidarity with a friendly State and always in respect of international law. [[Applause from the PSD and from IL MP João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u420	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This vote is the first official deliberation of the Assembly of the Republic on developments in Palestine in Israel in the so-called Holy Land. It is very important and has generated, in the last week, a huge discussion. It has been the target of acermal positions, very motivated and even extreme to a certain point, but it has allowed us, throughout this week, to have time to think, time to reflect, calmly, and to try to find a common ground that would allow us to have a position of the Portuguese Parliament. We had time to think, when, in a pretty distant area of here, there's no time for that. There is time to survive, to try to take care of the family, to try to think where to get water, food, electricity, to escape terrorist attacks or missile attacks that can fall and destroy our entire life. There's no time to think! This field of war that exists today is a fertile ground for the worst feelings that may exist: the feeling of revenge, the feeling of anger. in this sense, it adds responsibility to the Portuguese Parliament and the international community, at these most difficult times, to be able to intervene and say that there are values that are common and lines that cannot be exceeded, that we do not recognize and accept any kind of terrorist act, or to have victims who have no fault of the conflict that may exist. We recognize that the two peoples are condemned to understand themselves in the same territory, that Israel has the right to its existence and self-defence, within the rules that are those of the international framework, and that the Palestinians have the right to self-determination, to be included in a two-State solution, which enables us to live together between the two peoples.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u422	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u423	I will now finish, Mr President. We hope that there will not be any cuts in access to water, light, energy and that the subsequent solution will be worked out, which is the most important one and that we will make every effort to work for peace. That is why we are condemned to work, and this is what these two peoples are condemned to do: to understand each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u424	We shall then proceed to the vote by points, because the Bureau is informed that no one objects to the request made by the Left Block, in that sense. We turn to the vote on point 1 of the Draft Vote No 483 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by the Member of the PSD Sara Madruga da Costa ) — Regret for all victims resulting from the terrorist attacks of Hamas against Israel. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted point 2 of the same motion for a vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL and L, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point 3 of the motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote on point 4 of the above-mentioned motion for a vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote point 5 of the same motion for a vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] The draft vote submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is therefore approved at all its points. Mrs Paula Santos said that she was going to make a statement of vote in writing, as well as the honourable Members. Deputies Joana Mortágua, Rui Tavares, Eduardo Alves, Isabel Alves Moreira and Alexandra Leitão. Mrs. Isabel Moreira would like to use the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u425	Mr President, it is only to clarify that I have already given a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u426	All right, the statement of vote is already delivered. In view of the minute of silence which I shall request, I should like to make it clear that the draft vote, which has been adopted at all its points, is by all the victims resulting from the terrorist attacks of Hamas against Israel, whether Israelis or other nationalities, by all the victims who have taken place and have, unfortunately, succeeded in both the territory of Israel and the Gaza Strip. I also want to say that, of course, we express an increased solidarity with the Portuguese victims because unfortunately there are also citizens of Portuguese nationality among the victims resulting from Hamas' terrorist attacks. I ask everyone to follow me in the minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u427	The vote on the draft vote No 481 / XV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings for the European Day of Combating Human Trafficking. I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The European Day of Combating Human Trafficking is held annually on 18 October. This day was set up by the European Union in 2007 with the aim of raising the awareness of political decision makers and civil society for the implementation of policies in the fight against trafficking in human beings. It also reinforces the need to ensure cooperation between States in the development and sharing of knowledge and information. on this date, it is still important to highlight the seriousness and size of this crime that, according to the overall estimates of the UN, affects more than 2 million people each year. Situations of poverty, unemployment and armed conflict are some of the causes that contribute to the vulnerability of countries and populations, triggering labour and sexual exploitation processes. Trafficking in human beings, known as the slavery of modern times, is a global phenomenon and one of the most serious forms of violation of human dignity. It is often a violent crime committed by organized crime networks and destroys people's lives, depriving them of their dignity and freedom, as well as their fundamental rights. The complexity of this criminal phenomenon requires a comprehensive political response from the police and judicial authorities, both nationally and transnationally, as well as better identification, assistance and support for victims who suffer serious damage and who require assistance, support and protection. To reduce the risks of people becoming victims of trafficking, it is essential to develop awareness campaigns, educational and training programmes, thus contributing to the implementation of appropriate response strategies to combat this crime. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the European Day of Combating Human Trafficking, reaffirming the commitment to the eradication of this scourge, in defense of the dignity of the human person. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u429	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 918 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — eliminates the obligation to use the Blue Identification Distinguishment for the public movement of electric vehicles by amending Decree-Law No 39 / 2010 of 26 April 2010. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 350 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a national strategy for the prevention of rail suicide. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD and PCP.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 702 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — By raising and removing all asbestos present in educational establishments. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will vote, in general, Bill No. 790 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognizes to nurses the status of rapid wear and the right to early retirement, amending Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May, and the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 919 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — The transitional application of VAT exemption should be extended to food products suitable for children and vegetarians and the period of application of this scheme should be extended. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, IL and the CFP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 920 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — The transitional application of VAT exemption should be extended to products intended for pet feeding. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, IL and the CFP.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 715 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government assign to the family health units, models A and B, and to the personalized health units the institutional incentives provided for in Decree-Law No 298/2007 of 22 August and Portaria No 212/ 2017 of 19 July. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and IL, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u430	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u431	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Since Bill No 365 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It extends from three to five years the period of temporary exemption from IMI for the acquisition of buildings for permanent housing, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits was withdrawn by the proposer, we will generally vote on draft Resolution No 805 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government to support the creation of the European deposit guarantee system as a key part of a banking union capable of protecting small and medium-sized depositors and consolidating citizens' confidence in the European financial system. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions of CH and BE.]] This draft resolution is down to 5. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 938 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government implement a compensation mechanism for damage to BES and BANIF. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, BE and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 907 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — weekly ISP update to reflect changes in VAT revenue resulting from changes in the price of fuels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the PCP and abstentions of BE, the NAP and the L.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 892/XV/2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the immediate and regular application of the ISP review and fixation mechanism in order to reflect changes in VAT revenue resulting from the weekly change in fuel price. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the PCP and abstentions of BE, the NAP and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 944 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — eliminates the so-called "additional to ISP " and dual taxation of fuels ( VAT on ISP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira pointed out to the Bureau that the PSD would present a written vote on this vote. We will generally vote for Bill No. 945 / XV / 2. a (CH) — Reduces the VAT rate to 13 % and repeals the additional ISP rate on fuels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes against CH and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 69 / XV / 1. a (CH) — determines the end of the possibility of accumulating pensions by the holders of public and political positions of those beneficiaries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and BE and abstentions against the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 854 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Change the Code of Vehicle Tax, eliminating the current tax discrimination of used vehicles from the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PAN and L.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 824 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the automatic return of the unlawfully charged ISV. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes against the CH, IL and L and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 943 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — eliminates double taxation of vehicle taxes ( ISV ) and VAT ( value added tax ) on motor vehicles. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the CFP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u432	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u433	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Law No 87 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs support measures for Olympic, Paralympic and High Performance Sports Practitioners after the end of their sports career. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] This bill goes down to 12. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Law No 94 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime for the integrity of sport and the fight against anti-sport behaviour. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the CH and the CFP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 942 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Consecrates harassment as a disciplinary infringement under the legal regime of sports federations and provides for the establishment of channels for reporting infringements of standards of protection of sport ethics. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN, L and PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and PS and PCP abstentions.]] This bill goes down to 12. the Commission. The Bureau was informed that the Arrival will present a written vote on this vote. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 932 / XV / 2. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures that impact high-competitive athletes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 935 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Consecrate on September 26 as the national day of the paralympic athlete. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, CH, IL and PAN and abstentions of the CFP, BE and L were rejected.]] We will vote, in general, Bill No. 307 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates the sustainability factor and orders the informal recalculation in all pensions paid by PSP professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — regulates the provision of additional work in the Public Security Police ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 821 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 203 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government review the PSP gratified table. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 859 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the opening of the negotiation process for the amendment of the remuneration rates of the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 936 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revise the model of compensation for additional work in the Public Security Police. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u434	Mr President, if I may, I would like to announce that the PSD will make a written statement of vote on these last six votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u435	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 918 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Investing in a National Health Service of proximity and quality in Ovar as opposed to the relocation of the population to a local health unit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 572 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts to integrate Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, Ovar, and primary health care, Ovar, into the local health unit between Douro and Vouga. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD and CH, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against IL, PAN and L.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 928 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the reference of Ovar County users to the local health unit between Douro and Vouga. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] Mr Pedro Pinto, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u436	Mr President, to announce that we are going to make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u437	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 933 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of the Ovar Health Centre. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, the CFP and the L.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 937 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening health care in Ovar in response to the needs of populations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We shall vote on the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2024. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 18 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part, made in Brussels on 14 December 2022. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CH and IL and with abstentions from the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We will now vote on the application, submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 60-day vote of Bill No 826 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the right to vote in advance and in mobility in elections to the European Parliament, in particular persons with disabilities or disabilities, amending Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April, and approves an exceptional regime applicable to the election of the European Parliament of 2024. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 476 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of admission rates to academic evidence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 549 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of fees and emoluments in public higher education institutions for admission to academic evidence of doctorate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 620 / XV / 1. a (L) — Maintains the transitional regime for issuing multi-purpose medical certificate of incapacity for cancer patients and prolongs the validity of multi-purpose medical certificates for disabled persons until delays in medical joints are recovered. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolution No 896 / XV / 2, follows. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and mobilising actions of the educational community on the use of technological devices in school context. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 105 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Extension until 31 December 2023 the transitional application of VAT exemption to certain foodstuffs. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the PSD, the PCP and the L.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on draft resolution No 880 / XV / 2, follows. a (L) — Recommends that the Government implement ambitious measures to combat tax evasion, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] We are now voting on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 787 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government strengthen educational support programmes for children and young people in reception, such as the CASA Plan, and that these programmes include specific measures for children and young people with specific educational needs. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now have opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I call on Mrs Palmira Maciel to inform us about them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u438	Mr President, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Loule — Organic Unit 1, Case No 297 / 23.8BELLE, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Jorge Botelho ( PS ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u439	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would ask the honourable Member to read the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u440	Mr President, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of the Port — Organic Unit 3, Case No 3156 / 19.5BEPRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Paula Cardoso ( PSD ) to present her testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-20.u441	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday, October 25, and the agenda, set by the Left Block, on the theme « Guarantee the right to housing », will include the evaluation of the Bills Nos 947 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Bans the sale of houses to non-residents, 948 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Income control to defend the right to housing, 949 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Limits the variation in the rate of effort in housing credit, 950 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates a limit for an increase in income in 2024, and 951 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — eliminates the unusual resident regime with immediate effect. Finally, there will be a follow-up to the Rules of Procedure. Very good weekend to all. [[It was 14 hours and 11 minutes.]]
