ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. Good World Day of the Portuguese Language. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We do not read the dossier, but the Bureau is informed that Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento wishes to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my plea has two points, if you will allow me. The first is to welcome the trip which Mr President, accompanied by Members of this House, made to Ukraine. I welcome the return of all at a time when the conflict in Ukraine is intensifying, but we hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. I would therefore like to welcome the trip that this Parliament has really upset. The second point relates to the statements made by the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party last Friday. I had the opportunity to respond on that same day to the press, but I did not want to stop bringing the issue to this plenary. Having Mr. Eurico Brillante Days was absent on Wednesday and Thursday, following you on this trip to Ukraine, I understood that the rules of courtesy send that we should only talk about the intervention of other Members when these Members are present, as far as possible. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u3	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, last Friday, launched a very serious charge on the other parliamentary groups and on the Members who are in the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry ( CIP ), which would have been, some of them—providing suspicion over all — responsible for passing classified information to the press. We do not know what is the basis of this accusation by Mr Brillante Dias and today, a week ago, it seems relatively clear to us that the information that has been passed on to the press in those days did not originate in the ICC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u4	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u5	...but in other sources, in particular a former advisor to the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u6	Don't lose for the delay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u7	So I'd like to ask you two things. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] [[Let me talk!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u8	Mr President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry asked for a procedure and wanted to know what was the scope of the procedure that you have already opened, or to which you will open soon. The second question is whether you will investigate the grounds that led Mr Eurico Brillante Dias to launch a very serious suspicion about the Members of this House. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u9	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u10	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, would you also like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u11	Mr. President, that's the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u12	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u13	Mr President, I should also like to thank Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento for his courtesy of referring to the subject only when I am present. But let me tell you, Mr President, that I am relieved to know that the leadership of the PPD/PSD parliamentary board can make inquiries to the Bureau. That's very important. Do you know why, Mr. President? Because, from this rostrum, a member of the far-right parliament said that the socialists were hypocritical. I made an inquiry to the Bureau and Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento sat down.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u14	That's not an interrogation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u15	From this rostrum, a Member of this House—it is always from the same bench! — accused a Member of failing to carry out his term of office properly. I got up to discuss the table, and the PSD bench was sitting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u16	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u17	Here, this week, Mr Delgado Alves rose when this House was disrespected. [[Answer the question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u18	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves stood up to defend this institution and the PSD bench was seated. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u19	Where's Pedro Delgado Alves? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u20	in this Parliament, in this chair where you sit, a Member of this bench, Vice-President, was insulted, with lack of education, also always by the same bench. I stood up to defend the parliamentary institution and you, Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, sat down. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You are always sitting, whenever the parliamentary institution is not adequately defended, and here is the PS to do it forever. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] But I am shocked to know that you know how to stand up to make an inquiry to the Bureau. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u21	That's an intervention, it's not an interpellation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u22	As for the particular content, Mr President, we are in the second act of the same version. When it comes to the individual freedom of parliament to do whatever you want, as you understand, and that does not correspond to the type of intervention coming from that side to the right of the Hemicycle, Mr Miranda Sarmento and the PPD/PSD are very concerned. I must say, clearly and crystallly, that the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry took the appropriate steps, in fact, that I know, with the agreement of all Members, including with your agreement, Mr President, that you are saying no.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u23	That's not the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u24	These procedures will be taken by you, as you understand. I must tell you that I have my freedom to make my interpretation and to say clearly: the work of this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which we have voted on in this Chamber, must be respected. Material leaks classified by the National Security Office are a crime. That's what the PPD/PSD does not come to tell this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u25	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u26	It is that we may be facing a crime of violation of the disclosure of confidential material and, if that is true, our obligation is, diligently, to defend this institution and not to pretend that nothing is happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You're worried. And you know what I think is worse, Mr. Paulo Moniz? It's just that he shoved the toad up his neck. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u27	There are more requests for inquiry to the Bureau, so we will run them all and then I will respond to the petitions being addressed to me. Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias now said that, with the agreement of all parties with parliamentary seats, the request for an investigation was made available to the President. Yeah, of course, who shouldn't be afraid. from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, you will always have this agreement, so that you can investigate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u29	Ah! So, after all, they agreed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u30	But investigating doesn't mean reaching conclusions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u31	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u32	What we have rejected is that one of our peers in this Chamber throws an unfounded suspicion about a Commission that is doing its work, which is becoming uncomfortable for the government and this bench. That, we know: it's getting uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u33	Yeah, they don't want to be the Commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u34	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, in an attitude that also embarrasss his pair of seats, throws the lamaçal inside the Committee of Inquiry. [[Protests from PS deputy Susana Amador.]] Mr President, it does not seem to me that this is the correct position of a parliamentary, while a committee of inquiry is taking place: to try to appeal to all Members, all technicians and all the advisers who are part of that Committee of Inquiry. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u35	It was not only to the Members that the leader of the socialist board referred, because they intervene in the Commission, technicians of this House, parliamentary advisers, and they all have access to this information. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We can also say, Mr President, that the information that has come to the public in the media — Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, if you do not know, should know — are original documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u36	They are, they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u37	He knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u38	If you don't know, you should also know that documents coming out of an inquiry committee are zero, because they can't be printed, they can't be photocopied, they can't be passed even by e-mail, because there are no computers with Internet access.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u39	We'll be there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u40	We therefore assume in some way that the information will have come out, Mr President, of much less than the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u41	Yes, yes... « Suck the water from the hood»!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u42	This attempt by Mr. Eurico Brillante Days to try to discredit a Commission that is doing, and well, your work is not good for you, stains this institution and stains 230 Members here who exercise their mandate with rigour and dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u43	Don't lose for the delay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u44	Mr President, you do not have that kind of suspicion, because you, better than us, should know where that information came from. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u45	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u46	For the same purpose, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u47	Mr President, in addition to the foam of the days and the usual clumsiness between PS and PSD, there is an issue of great relevance to Parliament here. Even for general clarification, it should be said that any investigation into a leak of secrecy, of State secrecy, of any secret, of documents classified as being handed over to an Investigation Board comes from the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u49	Regardless of the will of the parliamentary groups, which is ultimately an accessory to this effect, it comes under the law. Therefore, the Assembly is only and only, and well, to comply with the law, to investigate whether or not there have been leaks of information arising from Parliament's action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u51	This is the obligation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, that is the obligation of Members and Members who have additional rights to belong to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and who, at the same time, have additional responsibilities, which have exactly those rights. What is on the table is not just that, because, institutionally, the Assembly of the Republic and the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry have responded well. What is on the table is also a parliamentary leader, who does not belong to the Committee of Inquiry, to make a number of comments on the Members and Members of the Committee of Inquiry, wounding their honorability and in them wounding the honorability of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u52	What would be expected was that, after the enormous accusations that have been made, if it had arrived at this time and if it had said 'yes, I have evidence DA or B have made certain information leaks'.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u54	It would be hoped that he would say directly that he could prove his claims. But no. On this matter, no word, a large part of whataboutism—until it seemed to arrive, on its usual list—and then a little party to saying anything but what is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u55	Hey, hey! You were doing so well! Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u56	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias made accusations about the Members and Members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Do you have any evidence about the statements you made, or was that just a political game about this matter? [[Congratulations from BE and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u57	That's what the investigation is for! Or don't you want to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u58	I shall now give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the PCP, and then to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative. There have been a few seconds of requests from the honourable Members. Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento and Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who will have the floor later. Mr Bruno Dias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u59	Mr President, at this time I would like to stress that, throughout the legislatures, there have been many parliamentary committees of inquiry, at least several of them have been as mediatic as this one is in progress. But all those who were as mediatic as this one, were -for all the less reasons for what is stated in their work. It should be noted that this extraordinary mediatism of this Committee of Inquiry has everything to do with these types of scenes, with these kinds of screams, with these types of scenes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u61	We believe that it is truly regrettable, in a matter that is so serious and of so much responsibility for the country, that there is this involvement around the work, making them virtually irrelevant. It can't be, Mr. President. As has already been said, the proceedings that will be under way, following what has been communicated by the President of the Parliamentary Inquiry Committee and what will be under the responsibility of the President of the Parliament of the Republic, stem from the law and, to that end, it is entirely irrelevant to the position, agreement or disagreement of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Making a political debate about compliance with the law is something that becomes, I would say, cartoon. But it is also important to say something similar to what was said by a representative of the workers, about business developed in the TAP and investigated in the Committee of Inquiry: someone was making a lot of money with that, but it wasn't the TAP, of course. With regard to this kind of discussion and this kind of screaming, we cannot fail to observe that someone will be earning a lot with this, but it is not the Assembly of the Republic and it is not the Country, of course. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u62	You're absolutely right, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u63	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u64	Mr President, I shall quickly go ahead of the scenes, which are no longer useful to try to hide the inconvenience of a particular party in relation to the parliamentary work of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry. I would just like to recall that, as some parliamentary groups have already said, there is a legal and regulatory framework, which has to be applied, of course. I also recall that in the previous legislature there was also a parliamentary committee of inquiry where information leaks occurred, and there was suspicion that the documents would have left the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. in this legislation, a process of investigation, conducted by the Bureau, if I do not fail the memory, led by the Vice-President Edite Estrela, in office at that time, that later came to conclusions. That is what must happen, with all tranquillity, within the framework of parliamentary functioning, within its legal and regulatory framework. All the more are scenes to hide the discomfort resulting from the parliamentary scrutiny. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u65	I shall now give the floor, a second time, to the author of the first request, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, and then to the visa, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, to conclude. Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u66	Mr President, I use the floor only to point out that it has passed a week, but the grounds for the serious accusation that Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias made did not arise last week. I therefore regret that Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has launched this suspicion on all Members, without any grounds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u67	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u68	Don't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u69	Mr President, my appeal is even following the defence of the completeness of the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. There are limits, Mr President, to dissimulation and to pretense. Mr President, this Parliament is investigating, it will investigate and will comply with the law, in fact, so I saw, without any opposition from any bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u70	It's the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u71	So the question that was raised by me a week ago was well raised. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] This Parliament must investigate and investigate the leaks of classified material.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u72	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u73	And you must do so as you did in other parliamentary committees of inquiry. Now, I understand the discomfort. The uncomfortable thing is for those who want to do this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission... I would say that I was disturbed when I saw a bench of the far-right parliamentary speaking in the mud. We are not used to this context, nor to this environment, which deals more with other entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u74	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u75	Therefore, Mr President, for the defence of Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic, the proper functioning of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, research is required and, with the clear agreement of all in this Chamber, above all, the work of the IPC parliamentarians of all parties, also of the Socialist Party is required to be respected. What happened last week was a bad service of this Hemicycle to the truth that we want to prepare at the ICC. It was a bad service of this institution, because, of course, what happened, back to underlining it, was a segmented, fragmented leak of classified documents that arrived at this institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u76	You're still gonna quit what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u77	I make this statement in my freedom as a Member and I do not accept any censorship of this Chamber,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u78	...because, fortunately, I still have the right to express my opinion, like all Members. As for this, we will continue here to defend the parliamentary institution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u79	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u80	Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u81	To make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u83	Mr President, what we are watching on Friday morning is, to all respects, regrettable: the parliamentary leader of the largest party here represented, with an absolute majority of 120 Members, raising suspicions about the Members of a Committee of Inquiry, who is doing their work. I thought that in this second plea he would apologize to the honourable Members who are in this Committee of Inquiry, because that was what he should have done, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u84	Don't even think about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u85	It is a lack of respect for both the Members of your bench who are in this Committee of Inquiry, and for all the other Members who are in that Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u87	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days has only one thing to do: when this suspicion is found that you have raised, and that you will not give anything,... [[Go on, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u88	...you must make your parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party available. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u89	The honourable Member is repeating the plea that your banker has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u90	I am not, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u91	So we're not going to start the agenda. Please, Mr. Deputy. Summarize it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u92	I just wanted to say one more thing very quickly, Mr President. I do not admit that Mr Eurico Brillante Dias continues to treat the bank of arriving as he deals, saying that we are extremely right-wing, accusing us of being racist, xenophobic, as he has done a number of times. [[PS laughter.]] These are serious charges and I can't admit he's doing that! When talking about the behaviour of the Members of the European Union, look at a mirror, see your bench and see how they treat us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u94	That's what you had to do. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are more requests for a word for an appeal to the Bureau. I must remind everyone that parliamentary sessions are starting time and not closing time. But if we start to delay this session too much, I will demand that all those who register for this purpose be present in the votes. The warning is made. [[That's very good.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u96	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u97	Mr President, in a very synthetic way, I would like to present to the Bureau a tactical and rhetorical remedy which is repeated and which has to be exposed. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias accused the Members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry without any evidence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u98	Accused of this, he did not present the evidence, did not give any additional content to his claim, and what did he do? He used the confrontation with the far right parliament to divert attention. And the far right parliament did exactly the same thing to divert attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u99	Sorry, Pedro, that's not reasonable!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u100	This is the practice of the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] Whenever you are in trouble, it instruments the extreme right to divert attention. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PS and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u101	There are more requests for the use of a word to discuss the table. I request as much restraint as possible and I ask for silence as well. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u102	Mr President, I need only 30 seconds after a long debate — I think it takes 30 minutes — to say the following: Mr Eurico Brillante Dias referred to all parties and there were several references to which all Members are suspected. I must say it's not like that! There could have been agreement and consensus from the parliamentary groups that two parties in which the citizens voted for this Assembly of the Republic and which are represented here were in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry : Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PAN, and myself, of the Free. We are not, because there was no such consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u103	They had more votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u104	There are those who speak of scrutiny and the need for scrutiny, but they did not want to accept that election to be extended to two parties in which voters voted. There are also those who say that any Member may be suspected. On this, I must say that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and I are certainly not suspected of passing information. [[CH's laughs.]] I must also say one thing: if we were in the ICC, we would certainly not be suspects too, because that is not the behaviour why the only representatives of the Party (DURP) are based in this House on committees, whether they are of inquiry or others.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u105	Are you talking for both of us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u106	Therefore, the parliamentary groups do this sad show that we have been watching, but they must keep it all for themselves and not involve parties that are not included in this show. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u107	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u108	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias once again called for an appeal to the Bureau. I'm asking you to be at the table! Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u109	Forward the evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u110	Mr President, of the last speeches, in particular the request made by the parliamentary leader of the Left Block, highlights an obvious issue. The honourable Member insists on the idea of suspicion. Well, I just focused on facts! The Government complied with the Assembly of the Republic and delivered documents. These documents were immediately commented on by parliamentarians. The next day, they were on the front pages of the newspapers, in particular, much information which, fragmentedly, weakens the public interest and the interest of the State. That is my point: the defence of the parliamentary institution and the verification of the facts that can only have happened — I stress — within our House. In order to defend the ICC, the work of the parliamentarians, in particular the Socialist Party's parliamentarians, is important to achieve this, and that is my requirement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u111	Don't beat your hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u112	Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Starting with the first point of Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento's question, I am grateful for the references he made to the visit we made to Kiev. It was a very important visit and I appreciate the collaboration of all in the organization, including in the absolute discretion with which, at my request, the members of the committee behaved. This was essential for the visit to be possible, also from a logistical and security point of view, such as the honourable Members. Members who have accompanied me may, if they wish, inform their parliamentary groups. The visit allowed very important meetings with the President of the Republic of Ukraine, with the Prime Minister, with the President of the Ukrainian Parliament, who also kindly invited me to speak at the plenary session of Parliament. It also included a particular point on which it was possible to visit the University of Kiev, where Portuguese is taught and studied, and to have a meeting with their teachers and students. It was also an expressive way of celebrating the World Day of the Portuguese Language and the cooperation that exists not only at the level of governments and parliaments, but also at the level of academic institutions between the two countries. By using the powers conferred on me by the Rules of Procedure under Article 16 ( 2 ( d ). I invited the President of Ukraine to visit Lisbon and also to address Parliament in plenary session. I did, as I said, under the powers I have, but also aware that I would have the vast majority of Parliament with me when I made this request, which was immediately accepted. Noting that Ukraine is doing everything to ensure that its obligations under the EU candidacy process are met with efficiency and speed, I have also made available the very great knowledge that exists in the Assembly, whether at the level of the Members. Members of the Committee on European Affairs, but also from other committees, be it at the level of the Members. Officials, to support Ukraine in this process. My hope is that, during the next visit of President Stefanchuk to the Assembly of the Republic, we can sign a memorandum of understanding, formalizing such cooperation. The first point has something to do with the second point. For security reasons, which I do not wish to detail, but for Members and Members. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in our Parliament, you already know that, for me, it is the law, the possibility of communications, whether telephone or electronic, with the services here and my own office was very limited from last May 1 to last night. So I'm still seeing carefully several requests that I have received. A request I received was from the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which is under way under the law governing parliamentary investigations. It is a fact that classified documents that are in the custody of the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission were subject to disclosure that is illegal, illegitimate and politically also highly condemned, because it is evident that it was an interested and selective disclosure with precise political objectives. The law of parliamentary investigations shall be laid down in Article 12 thereof. the, which, when this happens, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry must carry out a summary investigation to determine any responsibilities and, if such responsibilities are to be ascertained, shall propose to the President of the Assembly of the Republic precise measures against those responsible. This must be done because, of course, we must defend the prestige of our institution, and the best way to defend the prestige of our institution is to follow the laws and regulations that govern us. The Parliamentary Inquiry Commission sent me a letter at the end of last week requesting me to promote this summary investigation myself. That, to me, which is not a lawyer, causes me some difficulties, since the same law, in the same article, states the conditions under which the President of the Assembly of the Republic must intervene. Therefore, I am still studying the best way to help the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to comply with the law. We will then have the opportunity to know what has happened, who are responsible for it and to take the necessary measures. As we know, with regard to persons who are not part of the group of persons who have access to the reserved room of the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission — whether Members, Advisers or Officials — the Judicial Police is also conducting investigations, and that is not our concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u113	All right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u114	Let us then begin our agenda. The first point is from the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 606 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the Housing Bases Act to ensure access to public housing, 650 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Restores the figure of urbanizable soils and establishes a simplified soil reclassification procedure, 652 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — facilitates access to the real estate real estate real estate buildings and 727 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Reduces the rate of IMT applicable to the acquisition of own and permanent housing by young people by amending the IMT Code. To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment to the Housing Bases Act is pressing, in order to ensure access to public housing. Between 2019 and 2022, the average house price in Portugal increased almost 40 %, more precisely 38 %. Only in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, we have 50,000 family aggregates that live under inundated housing conditions. This initiative of the Arrival seeks to ensure complete harmonisation between citizens' salaries and access to public housing. the State shall, of course, be obliged to monitor the effective use of those who benefit from this type of housing, thus ensuring that those who effectively need access to a decent housing. In March of this year, the Government launched the More Habitat programme. A survey carried out by Aximage shows that this measure did not take the announcement of 62 % of Portuguese; it proves that it is a set of measures that the Portuguese did not accept willingly, did not see as useful, did not see as productive and concluded that this housing package proposed by the Government will not, at all, solve the housing problems that the country has. We have listed a number of gaps that are not included in this programme: the interest subsidy is insufficient and compulsory lease is a measure that pays attention to the right to private property provided for in the Constitution. The government also wanted, in this package, to definitely kill the local housing. What has already been so useful for the growth of tourism in our country at the moment is a target to be slaughtered by this government, indiscriminately, not looking at the fact that local housing is often the only source of support for some families. However, « on the best handkerchief falls the knot». Estamo, a company belonging to the public business sector, sold the former Desterro Hospital, on Admiral Reis Avenue, to Mainside Investments for a symbolic value of 10 million euros. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't for building housing, it was for building a hotel. This is the hypocrisy of this socialist government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It ends with the local accommodation for whom it needs and sells land, which would give for the construction of many housing, to private groups, for the construction of hotels. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if this wasn't too serious, it was a case to laugh. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to ensure that this Housing Base Act has the desired effect, we consider it essential to lift public housing available for undue use, fraudulent or in need of works; limit the number of revenue requested in contracts to a maximum of three, being one security, one month of the month itself and one third of entry; to deduct, at the home of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) from the interest of own and permanent housing, and that these deductions within IRS should be defined per capita; to exempt the IMT (municipal tax on expensive transfers of real estate) where the change in housing is to deal with changes in the family unit; to improve the IMI (municipal tax on real estate) family; and, finally, a measure requested by many Portuguese and that this Government continues to ignore, the return of the eligible young credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u116	But your project doesn't say anything about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u117	The subsidised young credit, with which the PSD has finished—but that the bank leader says that it has not finished, only has not allowed its renewal—and that the PS does not want to bring back, would be a measure that would help many and many young people to have the right to their own housing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u118	That doesn't appear on your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u119	To make a request for clarification to which Mr Filipe Melo will no longer be able to answer, I have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u120	Mr President, I hope that Mr Filipe Melo will be able to respond to the time when he has to close the debate, because he has told us about several proposals for housing, but there is only one problem: the project he has submitted has none of these proposals. He's got nothing! None of the proposals for housing here have been presented today by the debate or by the vote. So I ask you: what are we really debating? The only thing here is for debate in the draft which you put to the vote today is a redundancy, which is a 'word to fill' saying that the state will monitor the use of public housing. All right, you say in the Constitution, you say in the law. Moreover, none of the proposals you have mentioned here are in the draft that comes to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u121	Zero! CH Member Pedro Pinto displayed a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u122	He refuses to pick up a paper, I'm telling him how it is! I therefore ask you to answer in the end what we are supposed to debate and vote today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u123	To submit Law Nos 650 and 652 / XV / 1. a, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u124	Mr President, now on a project that is at point one of the discussions, I wanted to say that the problem of housing is, above all, a problem of lack of construction.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u125	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u126	This was an idea that it cost to enter, but, looking at the latest news from the More Housing program, it starts to become a little more consensual, including in the leftmost benches. In the last decade, fewer than 700 000 houses were built than it was normal to build in the previous three decades, 700 000 houses that would have made a huge difference in the lives of many people and in housing prices. There are many reasons why this has happened and no proposal alone will solve this problem, which is multifactorial. One of the problems identified by the sector's agents is the price of land, which alone increases the price of houses and makes it difficult to build new dwellings. The provision of more construction soils could be a way of reducing this price, increasing construction and making housing more accessible to everyone. Increasing the availability of construction soils will not only have an effect on land supply as it will make current urban land cheaper by introducing competition. The restoration of the concept of urbanizable soils — which is an intermediate classification, between urban and rustic — would be a step in this direction, especially in suburban municipalities. We read carefully the opinions issued and are willing, as a matter of fact, to work on the bill, together with the proposals of the Government, which are to some extent similar. They have the same objective and therefore we all contribute to making it easier to build new houses and lower the price of housing. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u127	To submit Bill No. 727 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, present audience: Today's youth who can buy their own home are a rarity in our country. Four in ten young people under the age of 35 still live in their parents ’ homes and, no matter how many times they go out. In Portugal, a young person takes more than three years to leave the home of parents than the average of young people in the European Union and, when he does so, he can only rent houses with exorbitant incomes or minimum dimensions for what his life expectations would be. The young housing programmes promoted by the government, besides being insufficient in money and coverage, are unique and exclusively focused on renting, as if the right of a young person to acquire his own home was an exclusive of the generations of his or her parents or grandparents, moving back to those who must be the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens, including the right to access to housing. In fact, nine in every ten young people tell us that they want to acquire their own house instead of renting, but housing policies continue, stubbornly, to offer them the lease as the only solution, once again benefiting a set of interests to the detriment of everyone's interests. Most of the young people who buy their own home already do so only after the age of 30, which means that the housing loan charges will only end at the age of retirement. If we are not able to help a young person buy their own home—for example, by means of an enhanced credit scheme, as the NAP has already proposed here and that the PS compressor roll has rejected—at least, we will be able to relieve the bill of taxes and additional expenses that the young person has to ensure when he buys a house. That is what we propose today. In fact, the proposal that we bring is far from the predatory view of the resources and housing of the soils that brings us, for example, the Liberal Initiative, a vision that we cannot follow in any way by the natural interests that it poses. What we propose is, indeed, that existing resources are not compromised and that, for this reason, municipalities and municipal assemblies may approve IMT exemptions for young people up to 35 years due to the increase in the exemption level of 12 000 €. This is a simple measure and an additional instrument in promoting the right to housing. We therefore know without ideological prejudices that this debate should lead to speciality, youth and the right to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u129	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Soares Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Seven years ago, we started the path of valuing a fundamental pillar of our social state, which is housing. With the presentation of the new generation of policies for housing, we defined the rehabilitation of the building as the main form of intervention, we guarantee opportunities with social inclusion and territorial inclusion and we told all families that they cannot have a market response that "yes, they can count on us". With the Housing Basics Act, we have established the fundamental tasks of the State in the effective guarantee of the right to housing, in the effective guarantee that it must be granted to all and throughout the territory. From there, it is work: it is National Fund for the Rehabilitation of Building, it is 1. the law, it is lease supported, it is Porta 65.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u131	They don't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u132	Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u133	And this is all without giving in to a millimeter in the defense of people, without giving in to a millimeter in the defense of the urban rehabilitation of our villages, towns and cities and without yielding a millimeter in the balance with the private initiative. throughout this time they were telling us all about how we acted in the housing plan. To the left they say we make right-wing policies, to the right they say we make left-wing policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u134	They don't do anything! Neither left nor right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u135	Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to say that the PS is where it has always been, focused on people's needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today is an important day, because we are again discussing in Parliament the challenge of housing. This is a challenge that brings us all together, because the house is even the epicenter of the life project of our families, and it is because it is what we have been moving forward with dialogue; it is because it is what we will continue, from here on, with openness to the discussion and for all the contributions that parties can make. But attention, if some proposals are now qualified, deserves our renewed attention and must be furthered in the field of expertise, others will focus on where there is ongoing intervention and where state mechanisms are already fulfilling their course. on our side, the More Housing package is today a feature of policies that go further, that seek to support income and credit, that give more access to the soils, that simplify the licenses and that make local accommodation compatible with the need to have more supply in the center of cities. With this program, we fight speculation and protect families, but we do what the Portuguese have trusted us to do: a real reform in access to housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the means of access to controlled cost housing is through construction and housing cooperatives, and there we are also going with our tax incentives. We are regulating all sectors, all the financial instruments that we have at our disposal to transform the country and solve a problem that the right much speaks about, but that never, at any time, when it was government, tried to solve. In all this dimension, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is the role, that it is important to highlight, of the municipalities; there is the role, that it is important to highlight, of our inter-municipal communities, of our authorships. Today, we can draw master lines and create opportunities, but only with the help and execution of our authorships will we be able to realize more housing. It is also for them that we are here today, it is for them that we present this package of measures More Habitat, and they can believe that all the authorships of our country, regardless of their political party, are even with this package, they are even with this program, they are with our government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As are the younger ones, who continue to look forward, but who today have more reason to be confident in our work on housing. We therefore count on all those who constructively want to contribute to our country's progress in the field of housing availability being effectively guaranteed. We want more housing, it's true, and it's even more housing than we'll go.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u136	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in these seven years of Socialist Party governance, we have attended various phases and political periods. We have had the return of post-trogic incomes; ineffective devotion, because ideologically, to the National Health Service; control of public accounts, which served to correct the reputational legacy of José Socrates; decentralization of competences, which transferred responsibilities to municipalities and which seems to drag themselves eternally; a fit never seen in taxes, disguised with an increase in wages that still does not prevent the impoverishment of Portuguese; and a national demand by an airline that is no more than a bribe of public money, and can even come to reveal a political cemetery. [[PSD applause.]] António Costa has, of course, many qualities and merits, but it has never been known for its reformist capacity. In its mandates, of strategic disorientation, what chaired political action was always the management of the cause and the immediate about the future; a government in view, of surplus, but we must admit that it has marked political and electoral effectiveness. Therefore, the way the theme of housing was placed on the table did not deserve much enthusiasm. On the contrary, the fact that the effective compliance with the Housing Bases Act is dragged, as well as the accelerated increase in access to it since then, has made the Government need to make a sort of retail, where all ideas fall and reform all at the same time. It cannot, of course, yield good results. [[PSD applause.]] The confidence and privilege that the Portuguese gave to the Socialist Party, in the form of an absolute majority, could anticipate the much-needed structural measures that bring with it discontent and challenge, but which essentially require reformist courage. If a majority allows to implement a political programme practically without concessions it also requires maximum responsibility. If a majority brings parliamentary comfort, it is no less true that if it does not correspond to a social majority, then this majority is not always transformative. [[PSD applause.]] in this regard, as in other matters, it seems to be the Leopard by Giuseppe Lampedusa who guides the government, under the famous phrase as a motto of political action : « If we want everything to continue as it is, everything must change ». Using the discussion of the proposals of the Reach, the Liberal Initiative and the PAN, which I welcome here, to remember these aspects is appropriate for the PSD. This is because we understand that the fundamental changes are made with authority, but also with dialogue. Lost that is the authority, only one year ago, remains the Socialist Party to carry out the dialogue majority promised by Mr. Prime Minister. therefore that worse than the More Habitat programme is regulated only by the majority is to advance by ignoring the proposals that the various parties have brought to this Plenary. It would be a mistake. in this particular, the benefit of the PSD is that it has made its part and has made clear its priorities in housing: the modification of the legal regime of urbanization and construction, as well as of the territorial management instruments; the fiscal measures necessary to respond to the social emergency in which it has become access to own housing; the creation of the exceptional regime for the provision of returned buildings; the strengthening of the security in renting; from the subsidy to income support for the raising of interest in housing credit; the building te the rent and the combined housing as innovative housing and housing solutions. We have brought all these ideas to this plenary, and this well illustrates our position with regard to the proposals we are discussing today. [[PSD applause.]] Although the diploma has room for improvement and we have reservations about the part of the writing, we understand that the draft law of the Arrival is positive. As far as the IL proposals are concerned, if, on the one hand, we understand that Bill 630 / XV / 1. it brings a confusion of concepts and legal regimes and that Bill No. 652 / XV / 1. it does not consistently define the concept of "interested", thus making it indeterminate and dangerous, on the other hand, even with doubts of constitutional character, we follow the idea of simplifying the use of soils. In fact, it is part of our housing programme and we hope that, in our specialty, we can join together to build a regime that serves the people. [[PSD applause.]] As regards what brings us to this debate today, we must also say that we are following the concern of the NAP for young people. Young people are the most penalized and the first to stay behind. To see barred access to housing is to deny the future to those who want to overcome the challenge of autonomy and independence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the situation of housing in Portugal is the state of the nation and a government that has lost authority remains only the parliamentary consensus. The uncertainty, instability, fear and lack of confidence that the announcement of government measures have brought in these matters can only be saved by discussion in the specialty, mitigating its most lasting negative effects, especially at the level of local housing, the lease market for the most vulnerable and private investment. Lost that is also the trust of a remarkable number of municipalities in these measures, demands the national interest that we commit ourselves to regain predictability, trust and articulation among all the actors involved. I shall finish, Mr President, by reaffirming that the PSD will continue its efforts to find consensus solutions, confident that it is a task that the government makes it difficult whenever it becomes weak publicly and politically. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u138	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative that gave rise to the scheduling of this debate, of the authorship of the Arrival, did not, in fact, have much to say to him and did not wish for much discussion. It is also an exercise of demagogy of the stamp to which the proposer has used us, with the usual operation of widespread suspicion and stigmatization over the residents of the homes of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitacion Urbana) or of the houses of the chambers, as if they were convinced that by expelling the people of these houses more quickly they would solve something of the grave housing problem that exists in our country, and as if the Housing Bases Law was here the problem. With these proposals we would be talking about. We'd be! Because, except when, it appeared to IL that you thought well to take advantage of to launch the debate of urban neoliberalism and thus presented the proposal to open the door to a true lighthouse in the use of soils, liberalizing to the extreme the reclassification of rustic soils in urban soil. The IL provides specific areas where soil reclassification can be done by the private through mere communication. Such opinions which this House has already received on the IL proposals are truly devastating in the denunciation of the potential consequences that they would have if they had been approved. It is an expression of neoliberal fundamentalism, aiming to capture public policies to put in the hands of the economic power central aspects of the development and organization of the city. The city of IL and Arrival is the city of social apartheid,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u140	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u141	...and we do not hesitate to denounce these political projects that try to impinge us in the name of a lie. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] We are told that there is a lack of houses in our cities. That's not true! There's a lack of houses that people can afford. [[PCP applause.]] In Lisbon there are 48 000 empty houses. There are 120,000 empty houses in the metropolitan area and 723 000 empty houses in the national territory. Portugal is the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) country with the largest number of homes available per 1000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u142	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, why are there so many people without homes and so many homes without people? It is very simple: because speculative prices are leaving people homeless; because housing is not treated as a right, but as a commodity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u144	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u145	And the great difference is not so much in the bottom-up option between the right and the current PS government, it is in the intensity of the political options of this housing vision as a commodity. This is because even the PS government itself is meeting this neoliberalism, for example, in the idea of mere communication with regard to urban licensing. It is no longer the issue of land use, it is the question of urbanization. So the question we have raised, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is this: when will there be political courage to face economic power? Not to give you, even more, the key to the future of our cities, but to ensure that the right to housing of people prevails over this stock exchange of values of houses and land in which they want to transform the national housing policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u146	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u147	Good morning, Mr. President, Faces and Dear Colleagues. This draft law of the Arrival gives us a title: « Change the Housing Base Law in order to ensure access to public housing. Then we will read and what is read does not correspond entirely to the title, unless this "in order to ensure access to public housing" is a very distant meaning. It is not in the sense of walking to ensure access to public housing, it is in the sense of waving away at the idea of public housing. It reminds me of what I, as a duty to do, had much to do with books from the 18th century, which was « does not play well its title». It was the polite way of saying that what was inside had nothing to do with the title, the polite way of saying what we today, in the 21st century, called « deceptive advertising». That's it and nothing else. As for the projects of the Liberal Initiative, the Liberal Initiative tells us that more needs to be built, homes are missing. There are missing houses, we can build more and we must build more and better, make better cities, but one thing needs to be distinguished here: Portugal is the country of the European Union most sought by millionaires all over the world. There are missing homes for millionaires in Portugal, but it is not to be directed at public policies: we are in front of Greece ; in the European continent, we are only behind Switzerland ; in the western hemisphere, we are only behind the United States and Canada ; and in Eureka, we are only behind the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u148	And what does that have again?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u149	This is to see that the potential market of houses in Portugal is a very large market. A small part of this market is enough to, if we make 100,000 houses, they disappear in an instant for millionaires. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative lacks to say one thing: building public houses is missing, building houses that we know can go to the people who live here, work, reside, Portuguese or foreign, and need the house where they live. Now, the Liberal Initiative does not take this step, and it does not take this step for pure ideological stubbornness. Thus, it does not respond to the needs of the people who have chosen us and who need home here,... [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u150	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u151	... but responds to the needs, finally, of whom you think you can easily buy a house in Portugal. There are also needs there, but for that market, I sincerely believe that this House of the Republic should not work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u152	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's continue with our agenda. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the housing crisis has many causes: interest reduction pushed financial capital into housing, transforming housing into a financial asset; The attraction of foreign capital through programmes such as the golden visa has once again transformed the houses into an asset which residents in Portugal cannot buy; The sector's liberalisation allowed clearance, making the houses empty so that they can be transformed into hotels and local accommodations—no one, living in Lisbon, does not know a hotel that opened on its street or a local accommodation in its building; The tax benefit policy has fostered real estate investment funds; Unbridled tourism entered the cities inside, disorganizing what existed, such as small communities, the places for local trade, for housing; And there are always those who take advantage of the moment of rising prices to speculate, keeping houses empty, hoping that the price will rise, because God free us to put houses on the market, don't go the price down. These are some of the reasons for the housing crisis. Now, IL denies all of this, because all of this is the functioning market, and IL cannot admit that the problem of housing is a problem of the functioning market. So we need to find a narrative of ideological salvation, a narrative that saves the face of the Liberal Initiative, in the face of total market failure to solve the problem of housing. Thus, they tell us: 'The market works, the market works perfectly, the problem is the obstacles, the barriers that the State places on the market, which do not allow the construction, and the taxes. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let's go to the taxes, let's talk about building. We use data on construction in Portugal forgetting that the population has decreased more than the houses that have been built. There is no problem with lack of houses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u154	Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u155	...there is a problem of empty houses and there is a problem of crazy speculation and houses destined for purposes that are not housing. But IL goes further and says: "It is necessary to facilitate construction. The land that today is rural is transformed into urban land, it is built by the will of the private. » Forget that the liberalisation of construction created environmental crimes and created environmental and urban crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u156	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u157	It forgets that the liberalisation of construction is, in many places, an open door to corruption and private interests in determining political decisions. It should be forgotten that the liberalisation of construction had a role in the banking crisis that Portugal had experienced, because this period of the great construction that Mr spoke of gave a banking crisis and the bankruptcy, or almost, of several banks, which were rescued with public money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u158	But there were houses at low prices!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u159	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not think that the solution to the problem of housing is a return to the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u161	I will finish, Madam President. And it is incredible that the Liberal Initiative, when faced with the problem, always wants to escape to the past, instead of finding future solutions, which is what is needed to solve the problem of housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u162	The Bureau has no further requests for intervention. Let's move on to the closing phase. To that end, Mr Filipe Melo of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in response to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who called upon us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u164	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u165	... it must be said that I realize that with such a small parliamentary group, I do not have time to read everything that has to do with the technical note of our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u166	It's a very fast technique! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u167	But if you look at page 13, where you say 'parliamentary framework' — which is a document that you must recognize, of course — you see that you are aware of the projects we have presented and, if you lose a little time to read, you find all the information for your questions. [[All right!]] [[Laughs from BE Mariana Mortágua's deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u168	Mr. João Dias, in a number that is already usual in the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u169	Bruno!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u170	You're thinking a lot about João Dias!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u171	Bruno! Bruno Dias, excuse me. Mr President, in a number that is already common in the CFP — in fact, we have known the same rhetoric since the times of Álvaro Cunhal —... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] ... it just failed to say that Portugal wanted to be like Cuba: social neighborhoods for everyone—whether they are doctors or not, whether they are unemployed or carpenters, with due value for all professions, they should all live in a social neighborhood. Mr Deputies, we are in the 21st century and we are in Portugal, we are not in any Cuban regime. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u172	Are you solving people's problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u173	But I must also remind you that the proposals that came during this Parliament — and they have not been so few, as can be proved — have in particular the exemption from IMI payment, the votes against the CFP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u174	Exactly! Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u175	Now! Well?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u176	Well, this means that the extreme-left parties, who so much claim to be next to those who need it most, lead to measures proposed by the Arrival that have the only purpose of helping these same families. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's put hypocrisy aside and assume, once and for all, that all that is not on your media and ideological agenda is to fall.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u177	All right! There he is! [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u178	The same goes for the Liberal Initiative, which teaches the seven winds that want to end taxes, that the tax reduction is that it is. Of course, this then leads to resignation in the banking leadership, because they do not see themselves in the conduct of the works that are being carried out,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u180	... because they lead to proposals from the Arrival which also have to do with reducing the tax burden on housing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u181	Exactly! Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u182	Mrs. Members, the seriousness, in these matters, cannot be exchanged for hypocrisy and ideology. You must keep your position firm and defend it. You can't just get here and vote against diplomas that are presented by the Arrival on a purely ideological issue. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u183	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u184	I shall conclude, Madam President. It's just that the Portuguese outside don't want to know about your ideological reasons, they want to know, by the end of the month, whether they can afford to pay the bills or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u186	But the PS always gives the reason for this debate, making all our proposals impossible and ignoring the real needs of Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u187	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u188	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u190	Madam President, I would like to request the distribution of a document. Mr. Filipe Melo said: « Go to page 13, learn how to read...» — these things all— « We are greater than you, blah-blah-blah. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u191	Blah-blah-blah-blah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u192	Only that the project of the Arrival has no page 13, it only has 6 pages. [[Technical note!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u193	Mr Filipe Melo refers to a technical note that talks about the past initiatives of arrive, not this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u194	Yeah! Yeah, it's...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u195	This bill, which I asked the Bureau to distribute to the Arrival itself, is a bill that does not have any of these initiatives. It is a redundant project on a proposal on public housing. Mr President, if you want to be taken seriously, take yourself seriously. What I think is that he doesn't even take his job seriously. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u196	But does that make any sense? Oh, my God! Populism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u197	The Bureau recorded this request, Mrs Deputy. Mr Filipe Melo asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u198	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u199	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u200	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u201	Madam President, I ask you to distribute the technical note to the Parliamentary Bank of the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u202	The technical note is not the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u203	The technical note does not propose anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u204	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u205	... in particular pages 13 et seq., where it has the parliamentary framework, which speaks of all the initiatives that came forward and which joins the technical note to this Bill No 606 / XV / 1. Mrs. Deputy, what I can suggest is that you spend less time on Twitter and read. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u206	We move on to point two of our agenda, which is that of the general appreciation of Bill No. 651 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Exemption from bond tax on loans, 657 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduce the cost of building dwellings by reducing value added tax(VAT) on construction, benefit, remodeling, renovation, restoration, repair or maintenance of buildings, 658 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — It facilitates housing change situations by discounting the value of income paid to the value of income received for the purposes of calculating IRS, 718 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, extending the period of exemption from municipal tax on buildings of buildings or part of urban buildings built, enlarged, improved or acquired for a fee, intended for own and permanent housing, 721 / XV / 1. a (L) — Increases IMI worsening for devolved buildings, 723 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends the scope of the beneficiaries of extraordinary support to families for the payment of income and the provision of credit contracts by amending Decree-Law No 20 - B / 2023 of 22 March and 729 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Extension of the exemption from IMT provided for in the Municipal Tax Code on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions ( CIMT ). To present the draft laws of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u207	Mr President, in this debate, which is actually one, I have already heard that the rise in housing prices is the responsibility of tourists, digital nomads and immigrants. The rise in housing prices is not the responsibility of tourists, digital nomads, immigrants or speculators.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u208	Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u209	Not only do these represent a small part of the demand in the country as well as other countries in southern Europe which were also affected by the same dynamics have risen from housing prices much lower than in Portugal. But even if these factors were paramount, the answer should never be to prevent or limit these people from coming to our country. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Immigrants, come get fruit in Odemira or freelancing in Lisbon, are very welcome. [[Applause from the IL.]] To see these people as a threat and use them as a political weapon is not worthy of a country that wants European, tolerant and cosmopolitan. We should be proud to have more people who want to live in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u210	It must be more public housing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u211	It is unbearable to meskinhez of whom, seeing this movement of people who like our country, uses the card of envy to want to limit your stay.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u213	We need to make public housing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u214	The temptation to blame the stranger for our problems resorts to what most basic and wild has human nature, and that will never be the position of the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u216	Even if foreigners were preponderant in the search for housing in Portugal — and they are not — our response should never be in the sense of expelling, forbidding, limiting, but yes, by positive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u218	Make more public housing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u219	... in order to build more, taking advantage of one of the few external competitiveness factors that socialists failed to destroy: the benefit of living in this beautiful, secure country, with a fantastic time, stunning landscapes and generally friendly people. Instead of wanting to expel those who feel attracted to our country, we should be able to respond with more housing offer, with more building for Portuguese and foreign.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u221	But this has not happened, making the prices of existing houses continue to grow. There are many reasons for the lack of response from the construction sector: the destruction of this sector, in the last decade, as a result of the crisis; the lack of land in areas where people want to live, because, Mr. Deputies, there is little progress in having many houses in the country, if we do not have houses where people have work; the lack of labor specialized in construction; and, yes, also the construction costs. It is in this sense that we have come to propose the elimination of one of these costs, which falls entirely at the final price of housing: VAT (value added tax) of construction. The Government and the PS have already acknowledged that VAT can have an effect on the final price, hence they have lowered it for food, hence there are reduced VAT schemes for rehabilitation, when that was the only priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u222	That was spectacular!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u223	If you recognize this, if you recognize that having reduced VAT for food and rehabilitation promotes rehabilitation and reduces costs, it is time to be consistent and also lower the VAT for construction. The minimum rate is applied to essential goods. Won't housing be an essential asset? If we recognize housing as essential, it is time to tax as such. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u224	To submit Bill No. 718 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u225	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, what you did here was an exercise of hypocrisy, and a exercise of serious hypocrisy. Immigrants and immigrants, who are the swindles who are delivering the Glovo, on bikes or bikes, who are the drivers of the Uber cars, who are the ones who work to clean local accommodations, who are the ones who work in restaurants that feed this regime, unsustainable and unbridled, of mass tourism, these immigrants, do not buy houses in Lisbon, do not come to Lisbon, nor do they have time to take advantage of the sun, because they work in regimes that are the liberal paradise, that do not recognize them the right to holiday, nor the grant of holidays, nor to a wage that allows them to buy a house in Lisbon. These immigrants that Mr. Deputy talks about have no money to buy a house in Lisbon. These immigrants whom you speak of live under a ‘hot bed’ regime. Do you know what a ‘hot bed’ regime is? They pay time to sleep in belliches, in overcrowded rooms, where they are exploited by owners who charge what they should not charge. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] So do not say that who fights for housing is against immigrants, because who fights for housing and who is against speculation is in favour of immigrants who want to live and live in Portugal can afford to pay a house. But for that, they need two things, and they cannot count on the Liberal Initiative for any of them: they need work with rights, they need a contract of work that gives them a decent salary, and they need access to housing that they can pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u226	That's what we're defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u227	And the problem of housing, as much as the Liberal Initiative wants, is not a problem of building, or at least it is not a problem of building in big cities. [[It is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u228	Just look at Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto's argument: it's not tourism, it's not speculation, it's not golden visas, it's not digital nomads, it's not real estate investment funds, it's not the regime of unusual residents—it's none of this! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u229	It's Robles!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u230	...is that, suddenly, the search has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u231	No, it's just that the offer's down. What I said was that the offer has decreased!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u232	It happens, Mr Commissioner, that the data contradict your entire history of carochinha, because what the data say is that the population living in Portugal has grown less than the houses available. The hiatus between the resident population and the houses available has never been as large as it is today. So the problem is another.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u233	That's not true. There are no houses where there are jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u234	It happens that the solutions to this problem, which means limiting speculation, which means limiting unbridled tourism, which means limiting tax benefits and billboards, these solutions, all involve one thing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u235	More bid! More bid!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u236	... something that the Liberal Initiative does not support, which is the idea of reducing the speculation and profit of those who live and become millionaires — large businesses and large funds — at the cost of housing price, which prevents people. Therefore, Mr President, this is not the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u238	It's always the same conversation! It's always the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u239	The Left Block presents a very brief proposal to amend a problem that the PSD created, when it removed and limited an IMI exemption. We therefore propose to amend this PSD proposal, which has increased the tax burden on households with houses up to €150 000 (taxable capital value ), and we propose the extension of the exemption of IMI once again, up to eight years, which can be a good aid to those who have home today and have difficulty paying it to the bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u240	To submit Bill No. 721 / XV / 1. a ( L ), I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u241	Madam President, I would like to welcome the Liberal Initiative by marking a debate on taxation in housing. It is a subject in which, it is known, we have huge differences, but these differences are healthy. I do not expect the Liberal Initiative to agree with the Free Initiative on this subject, but I would like the Liberal Initiative to be consistent with sound liberal principles on taxation issues. It is in this sense, in fact, that the bill presented by the Free comes. It is a bill that tries to limit, through taxation, the negative externalities that returned buildings present before other buildings, and this is something that I think liberals could, or should, accompany. Let's look at Mr. Brans' case. Mr. Brás, of the Algarve, knowing that the children had come to study in Lisbon, decided to buy an apartment in Lisbon, thinking to sell it when the children returned to the Algarve. However, the building next door was left to the abandonment on purpose, at the risk of fire, at risk of collapse, with garbage up to the top of the yard, and everyone who comes to visit Mr Brans' apartment — whose children, however, have returned to the Algarve — that he wants to sell, in an investment that we all imagine, we judge legitimate and legal, arrives there and sees that garbage, that risk of fire and that risk of overthrow. Therefore, the devolved building is currently devaluing the legitimate investment Mr. Brás made in the apartment for the children to study in Lisbon for a few years—and this happened a few years ago when Mr. Brás could still make an investment of these, it is not something that happens today. Well, the project of the Free says that who leaves a building to abandon that way should be taxed with more IMI. Besides that the houses should perform their social function, which is to be inhabited...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u242	It's already worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u243	It is already aggravated, but what the Free says is that it must be made worse, because at the moment, it is damaging who makes a legitimate investment in their own home, or even who seeks to achieve some legitimate profit when he no longer lives in that city. Now, I have seen that the Liberal Initiative, in this debate, suspends some principles that we would judge of solid liberal doctrine. For example, a little while ago he suspended the law of supply and demand: it applies to everything, suddenly, for housing, in Portugal, it is not valid. It is irrelevant that there is a demand for millionaires and that Portugal is the country of the European Union where there is a greater demand. And it is thought, on the other hand, that the offer can grow infinitely. Well, I hope, at least in this, they return to a little coherence with their own thinking and that they come to support this worsening of the IMI for devolved buildings, at least because of the negative externalities that the devolved buildings cause about the investment that other people legitimately make in housing in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u244	They have to change, they have the majority! Are you talking to the Liberals?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u245	To submit Bill No. 723 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We thank the Liberal Initiative for bringing the issue to debate, although we differ from the ideological point of view, particularly with regard to the vision of concreteization, which brings us every time we are talking about housing. With regard to the proposals that the NAP brings here today, and given that we are in the context of housing taxation, we cannot ignore that yesterday, once again, they have raised interest rates for families. This situation has placed families in a great social fragility: only last month, every 100 000 € of debt, the families had an increase of almost 200 € of benefit, coupled with other increases they had already had last year. This asphyxiation situation is unsustainable, and the support measures for families that have been approved, although well-intentioned, do not have the dimension that the crisis situation requires. This is clearly evident in the case of family support for the payment of income and benefits, which was approved by the Government in March. This is a measure which was a good number of marketing, but which knows a little bit, because it leaves out a quarter of families with housing credit, which means that they also leave out 84% of lease contracts. Worse: this measure, incoherently, leaves out the families to which the Government, even last year, has given support of € 125, because it considers them to be vulnerable. For this reason, the NAP today proposes to change this support measure, so that it reaches more families and is consistent with the support framework defined in recent months. We want the maximum reference income for access to support to be the individual income of each of the elements of the family aggregate, as happened with the support of € 125, and we also want the calculation of the effort rate to consider all the credits of the families and not only the credit to housing, because, if that is how the effort rate is calculated in the granting of credit and in the renegotiation of it, it makes no sense, nor is it serious, that the calculation is different from the support now available. They are simple measures, but we believe they can make a difference in the lives of thousands of families, so there is a political will to approve here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u247	To submit Bill No. 729 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u248	See there is the bill and not the technical note!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u249	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our draft law aims to extend the exemption of IMT in the acquisition of property intended exclusively for own and permanent housing, the value of which does not exceed €301,688, i.e. the maximum provided for in 4. the scale of the IMT table. This is a temporary measure that represents a real tax shock, because the marginal incidence rate can reach 7 %, which means a significant relief of acquisition costs for the overwhelming majority of the middle and middle-low class that intends to own its housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u251	For all the initiatives under discussion, in the case of Bill No. 651 / XV / 1. a (IL), which proposes to extend the seal tax exemptions to a new set of acts and contracts, we consider it to be a positive measure, although if we carry out an analysis of the relative weight of the tax, we quickly find that this exemption constitutes a policy impact measure or very little significant in combating the escalation of interest rates and the price of housing. For Bill No. 657 / XV / 1. a (IL), which proposes the reduction of the cost of construction, benefit, remodeling, renewal, restoration, repair or preservation of housing, through the reduction of VAT, we are entirely in favour of it, since the measure in question translates virtually into a copy of a bill already submitted by the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u253	As for Bill No. 658 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), the last presented by IL, we followed the reduction of 14, 5 % of the autonomous rate applied to revenue with ad hoc income as well as the compensation of income for the purposes of calculating IRS, given that we consider these measures to contribute, above all, to greater relief and fiscal justice. For Bill No. 718 / XV / 1. a ( BE), which amends the Tax Benefit Statute, extending to eight years the IMI exemption period for housing buildings intended for own and permanent housing whose taxable capital value does not exceed € 125 000, we will not follow the same, because if we examine the municipalities where there is the greatest shortage and where the greatest increases in property prices are recorded, € 125 000 seems to us to be a clearly desquared value for a family home located in large urban centres. For Bill No. 721 / XV / 1. a ( L), which proposes the increase in the increase of the IMI for devolved buildings, seems to us a Leonine measure that would certainly contribute to increasing the already exorbitant tax revenue, but which continues to fail to solve the problem of housing in Portugal. We understand that the adoption of such measures must exist through an in-depth and thorough analysis of the returned housing park, in order to understand exactly the concrete cause of those buildings are not inhabited. Until that happens, a measure of this nature will always be counterproductive. Neither can we follow the Bill No. 723 / XV / 1. a (PAN), considering that, by constantly throwing money over the problems, we will also be contributing to feed these same problems. We believe that, in the case of housing credits, banks should have a more effective obligation to renegotiate performance plans in order to cope with the temporary rise in interest rates. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since the second half of 2021 that the price of goods and products has been rising steadily and sharply, it does not appear on the horizon any deflation scenario, which means that prices will remain high. At the same time, we are watching the escalation of the interest rates of housing credit, which have not yet reached the 2008 peaks, but will probably be very close. But if the escalation of interest rates is conjuncural, the increase in prices of goods and products is structural, and to want to solve structural problems with subsidies is to want to make the Portuguese population increasingly dependent on the state. Subsidies should have a temporary nature, but there seems to be an intrinsic desire of the PS Government to make the subsidies increasingly permanent. More than a crisis in housing or food, Portugal is in the arm of a income crisis, whose only solution will necessarily go through the widespread increase in wages and the effective reduction in the tax burden, which continues to suffocate Portuguese families and companies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u254	Now, yes, we complete the period of submission of bills on the agenda. We moved on to the intervention period. To that end, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are debating another attempt by the opposition to anticipate and empty the work of the Government, which started back there, in the Housing Bases Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u257	They're trying, but they can't. Besides, PSD also tried it a few weeks ago. And they cannot therefore, from the first hour, the PS Government has been alert and active with regard to the growth of housing prices and the needs of low- and medium-income families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u258	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u259	And long before this anxiety, now induced by the growth of interest rates, and while the right, without exception, claimed that the market would solve the problem and that there would be no need for public intervention, the government drew strategies and acted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, the market does not solve the problem and we even need a government that defends the social state and makes public housing available. That is why the government has acted. He has now acted with immediate and rapid response measures to support families in the impact on incomes, but also to support families in mitigating the impacts of housing on the family budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u261	These are measures such as extraordinary support for leases, which aim to ensure that families with high rates of effort with leases or leases for permanent housing receive support for the payment of their income. It has ensured that aggregates with an effort rate exceeding 35 % are eligible. Yeah, we're here to support people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are measures such as temporary payment of interest payments to permanent housing to mitigate the impact of the accelerated increase in interest rates. Supporting families is the main focus for PS and therefore supporting them in their credits for permanent own housing is something that makes the difference in these families and that we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u263	Or, moreover, the obligation of the banks to provide an alternative credit to housing at a fixed rate. These are immediate impact measures that aim to resolve an immediate situation and support families in difficulty. But the government did not start with emergency measures and therefore drew up the largest investment plan in public housing that there is memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u264	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u265	It is EUR 2700 million in investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u266	It was the PRR, it wasn't the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u267	A plan made with the municipalities and designed with the local housing strategies and which aims to give adequate answers to each reality, to each municipality, to the concrete needs of its territories and its people. Yes, because people are different wherever they live, wherever their housing needs are felt.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u269	In addition, the Government has now presented a set of legislative measures aimed at continuing to provide answers within the framework of the More Habitat programme, which seek first and foremost to be structural, but also to respond to critical situations of environment. On the one hand, to stimulate new private projects for affordable leases, with the transfer of public buildings, with subsidized funding lines, with predictability of fixed incomes and, yes, with tax incentives and incentives, with the notion that taxation does not solve all problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u271	But also, launching a new generation of affordable housing cooperatives, which also involves the transfer of public buildings, a subsidized funding line and a very structured partnership between the state, the municipalities and the cooperative sector. These measures seek what has been lacking in recent years and, above all, after the « Cristas law» : to give confidence to the lease market, with the reduction of rent taxes, with guarantees of greater agility and faster justice, but by giving confidence to people, by giving new support, ensuring continually open applications at Gate 65 Young, with the creation of Gate 65 +, for breakdown of income,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u273	... protecting tenants with older rents, renting up to 35 % of the family income. Yeah, because we're worried about Portuguese families. But further, by promoting a simple urban planning that makes licensing faster and more effective, ensuring mobilisation of housing soils and simplifying access to buildings for rehabilitation. These are all measures aimed at giving concrete answers to concrete problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u275	... and in which, of course, it is the dialogue with Portuguese and Portuguese, after a broad public consultation, and with the oppositions which they now intend to contribute to a constructive debate. That is why the debate planned for the middle of this month could and should be the driving force behind this whole debate which is in some way here today. But, as I said at the outset, the desire of some to try to reach the goal leads to nothing contributing to the resolution of a serious problem affecting the lives of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u276	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u277	And, therefore, on the part of the PS, you can be sure, the Portuguese and the Portuguese, that we continue to be concerned and committed to giving answers and properly solving the problems and we count on all those who come for the same purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u278	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This second agenda, basically, in the same debate, also on housing, is mainly focused on tax matters. And here is one point that we cannot fail to point out: it is a gross mistake to consider that the problem of housing in Portugal is a tax problem, because it is not. The crisis of access to housing has worsened over the last few years, not because there has been an increase in housing or real estate taxes. That I know, in recent years, these taxes have not been aggravated. The crisis in access to housing is the result of the deregulation of the lease market, wild real estate speculation, without any control measure, on the contrary, with tax privileges regimes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u280	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u281	... with golden visa regimes, which have even promoted this speculative spiral, and is a consequence of decades of policies that relegated public housing to the background. It is basically a consequence of the political options that the Liberal Initiative still wants to worsen, with the proposals that bring about this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u282	Sure! Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u283	There is still another aspect to be highlighted: it is often the logic of promoting fiscal competition between municipalities, as is the case at least in the initiatives under consideration. Now, it must be said that the logic of fiscal competition only serves to aggravate the asymmetries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u285	... harming municipalities with fewer resources. It may not cause great moves to the authorities with greater financial capabilities, but it will leave the authorities with less resources without means to meet their obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u286	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u287	But let's go to some of the proposals discussed here. The Liberal Initiative wants to lower the VAT of construction and exempt the seal tax. These are measures that do not distinguish, for example, the promotion of housing at controlled cost of building, for example, from mansions, which are treated equally, as if they were the same thing from a fiscal point of view. In addition, the liberalization rate of real estate incomes from 28 % to 14 %, i.e., the real estate incomes that are now highly benefited from the same value of employment would become even more privileged. They want incomes of hundreds of thousands of euros or millions of dollars to be taxed at lower than those borne by wages of little more than 1000 euros. This proposal shows what the Liberal Initiative is all about. They want, once again, to lower taxes to the richest, using the small owners as a human shield of a policy of promoting even greater tax injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u288	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u289	What is required is, on the contrary, to implement the mandatory enclave for taxpayers at the highest level of the IRS, so that equal income is taxed equally, ending this injustice that the Liberal Initiative wants to worsen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u291	As for other initiatives under discussion, we wanted to say that, however well-intentioned the idea of exempting the IMT or extending the IMI exemptions, it is important not to forget that these are fundamental resources to ensure public services and the occupation of the public space for all, including those who do not have and will never have the opportunity to acquire their own home. Therefore, they are fundamental resources to ensure public space for all those who live in the cities...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u293	...and, therefore, the idea of abdicating these resources seems to us that it does not correspond to what must be done. from the PCP, we insist: housing problems need a response, but in relation to their original problems. They need a response by giving stability to the lease and repealing the "Crist law"; they need to put the profits never seen by the bank to bear part of the effort with the increase of interest; they need to give stability to the lease; they need a strong bet in the public housing. That is what we do not see in the initiatives we are considering, but the CFP continues to draw attention to this, in the initiatives it has proposed over the past few years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u294	Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing is undoubtedly one of the main problems of Portuguese. Yesterday, through the decision of the ECB ( European Central Bank ), we found the increase in interest rates even higher. We are talking here about families who are suffering, today, the worsening interest rates, the largest in decades, which subject 74% of families to serious financial difficulties. But being this one of the major problems of the country, it is the result of another great problem, which is that of the government's inability to solve this and any of the main problems of the country. This is symptomatic of the country having overcome, once again, another negative indicator, still a few days ago revealed. It'll have everything to do with the housing and let's see why. Portugal currently occupies 30. the position in the Elites Quality Index in 2023. He lost eight — Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, eight! — places for last year, and has been exceeded, including by China, which won 22. the position and rose five patamares in relation to what was the place of Portugal in 2022. But we can also talk about the rate of transparency, or we can talk about the rate of competitiveness, or we can talk about the fact that Portugal has been exceeded in all the indicators and by the countries of convergence in the last seven years. We're also close to Romania. What does this have to do with housing? It has everything to do with housing. It couldn't be any other way. Because there is a need for authority, experience and consistent solutions that solve this problem. For this reason, the PSD recently presented a set of proposals, already discussed and approved in general in this Plenary, which meet the concerns of the Portuguese, regarding housing, in areas such as young housing, student housing, young rental and acquisition of the first own and permanent housing,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and a set of proposals in the area of taxation—a matter on which Mrs Jamila Madeira did not speak in this debate, having basically talked about the previous item on the agenda. It is precisely in the tax area that it is important to concentrate attention to alleviate the weight of taxes in the area of housing. We can't forget the tax burden, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. As is known, Portugal has reached a record value: 36, 4 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), where the weight of public expenditure is 44, 8 %. It is therefore worth talking about the tax burden, which also makes Portuguese efforts in the area under discussion go beyond that. That is why we welcome the proposals under discussion today, which are generally well-intentioned. Here, I can only exclude the situation of the Free, which has once again not resisted to aggravate the rates of IMI, in some cases 20 times more, for devolved buildings, including rustic buildings, in an attack on small family property. [[PSD applause.]] However, it also goes in line with the Government's proposals, because the government's proposals reveal lack of experience, lack of prudence and lack of wisdom. It is evident from the proposals that the Government is putting forward in this regard the pursuit of local housing without any cabling, or the obvious, ostensive unconstitutionality in the case of forced lease of buildings, another of the measures of the so-called Most Government Housing package.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u296	We know the PSD thinks the market solves!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u297	Therefore, it is important to avoid the sovereignty and ideological radicalism. in this measure, we even welcome the proposals of IL, arrive, or NAP, because they are moderate, and because they meet the proposals of the PSD. The PSD proposals, as I said, are linear and have a key role to play in solving this problem. I am talking about the reduction in the IRS's rate of release for real estate income, the strengthening of the deduction to collection, also within IRS, in relation to amounts paid for interest, or the application, somewhat following the IL's proposal, but here well-winned, for the years 2024 to 2030, of VAT at the rate of 6 % in the construction and rehabilitation works and services of urban buildings. A set of measures, which are, in fact, serious, which the PSD will defend and which, if Parliament so understands, if that is what it wants, will enable it to overcome this serious problem of housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u298	At the end of the intervening period and not having the Bureau more requests for a word, we shall be brought to an end. To that end, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u299	Madam President: If there is one thing these two discussions show, there are two views for housing: one is focused on envy, on light xenophobia, according to which the problem of housing is solved by expelling foreign tourists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u300	Envy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u301	Envy? Oh, my God! That's an absurd thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u302	And there is another positive, constructive view that we should bet on more offer, to allow more Portuguese, younger, to have access to housing. And yes, that also foreigners from various professions choose our country to live, that may have access to more housing. Then neoliberalism was blamed in housing, which is the usual expression, that the culprit of everything in this country. Now, let's look at when this neoliberalism appeared: at the end of 2015 the price of the dwellings was basically at the same level as they were eight years before. By the end of 2015, housing prices were basically stable. Since 2015 according to Eurostat, housing prices have risen 61 % in Portugal. What happened in 2015? What happened at the end of 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u303	Nothing happened at that time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u304	He assumed the power of the Socialist Party. With whose support? Left Block and PCP. So we have here our neoliberal wing which supposedly contributed with a set of policies so that prices would have increased. You have validated all policies since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u305	But what policies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u306	It was you — it was the PCP, it was the Left Block, it was the PS — that made all these bets! And since the PS took power, the price of the houses rose 61 % when it had been stagnated in the previous eight years. So if you want to blame neoliberalism, neoliberals are you, because it was you who validated all these policies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u307	What about “the law of the Christ ”? Don't insult us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u308	It wasn't us who were here! Perhaps, then, the problem is not neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u309	Ideological blindness!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u310	Maybe, the problem is what's happened in the last 10 years,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u311	It's speculation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u312	...which was a brutal fall in construction. And when the offer falls, sirs. Gentlemen, what's going on? Prices are rising.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u313	What's missing is public offer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u314	It was not neoliberalism, because if it were, you had to look at the mirror and see how the neoliberals determined these policies. [[Applause from the IL.]] Neoliberals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u315	We now turn to point 3 of the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of Bills No. 664 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the mandatory minimum quota of 30 % Portuguese music in the musical programming of the audio broadcasting programme services, 717 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Set by 35 % the share of Portuguese music broadcasting on the radio ( third amendment to Law No 54 / 2010 of 24 December ) and 725 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Change from 25 % to 30 % the minimum mandatory quota of Portuguese music in the musical programming of radio programme services. To submit Bill No. 664 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u316	Madam President, I will only wait for the defrosting of the benches on the right. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u317	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for creating the conditions for the speaker to use the floor. [[Pause.]] Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u318	Madam President, on this day of the Portuguese language, I would like to greet all Portuguese musicians, who are well represented here by Rogério Charraz — I am sure they feel that way. The Left Block presents a project to ensure a minimum mandatory quota of Portuguese music in the music programming of the radios. We understand that there are only two ways of discussing the problem, or the question, of Portuguese music quotas on radios. One, which was defended by the President of the Portuguese Broadcasting Association in statements which, I imagine, he himself will consider today that they were unhappy, saying that there is not enough production of good Portuguese music to support this quota. Those who understand this understand that quotas not only do not fight an injustice, as they create another injustice, which would be to force listeners to hear Portuguese bad music, when there is such good foreign music made in the world. This perspective is part of a fatal mistake: the idea that radios don't pass Portuguese music anymore because Portuguese music is bad, and that's not true. Radios no longer pass Portuguese music because Portuguese music is less heard. And it's less heard because it's less promoted, it's less widespread, it's less supported and it's less profitable. There is also in this position who is against quotas a certain provincialism, of which we cannot escape, that everything that comes from outside is necessarily good and everything that is ours is necessarily bad. Another perspective is that of anyone who wants it to be normal to turn on the radio and listen to Portuguese music. Why? Because she exists! Portuguese music exists and is good. Tozé Brito, President of the Portuguese Society of Authors, confirmed this. He said it is a complete lie that there is not enough Portuguese music, because Portuguese music is increasingly produced, which has never been produced so much Portuguese music. And I add, so good Portuguese music. Tozé Brito says that 25 % can only be filled with Portuguese music produced in the last two months and another 25 % for the last 100 years, and we easily have 50 % Portuguese music on the radio. Those who defend quotas also want it to be possible to live with the dignity of music in Portugal, because the economy thanks and culture as well. It is not normal to condemn our music industry for the prejudice that what comes from outside is that it is good and what is ours is bad. We are here to debate with those who defend quotas, with whom we defend that the normal thing is that there are Portuguese music quotas, as there are so many other countries, because that is what protects Portuguese cultural production. We obviously want to discuss minimum limits, maximum limits, we want to discuss exceptions, we want to discuss supervision. We have listened carefully to Minister Adam and Silva on this matter. We agreed, as he also said, that there are radios that are free of quota, such as the CityFM, MegaHits or the New Era, because, when the quotas were applied, the music that these radios passed, such as rap music, urban music or hip-hop, was not enough to fill the quotas. But today, the reality of musical production in Portugal is completely different. But we also remember that this debate only emerged and that the Left Block only presents this project because the Government has decided to drop the door which guarantees 30 % minimum quota. He might have published another one, but he did not. He referred the debate to Parliament. We are here and we welcome this task. We only ask the Socialist Party to allow our projects to move on to the specialty, so that we can discuss Portuguese music quotas. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u319	To submit Bill No. 717 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to address a first word to the musicians and artists who are here with us, who accompany this matter and who are currently accompanying this debate. The CFP brings the debate to a proposal that aims to support artists, Portuguese musicians, a proposal that aims to value Portuguese music, what is done in our country to value our language and our culture, a proposal that bets on the promotion and dissemination of Portuguese music. Firstly, we propose that the share of Portuguese music in programming radio programme services be set at 35 %. We believe that this increase in quota makes all the sense. To those who say that there is no quality musical production in Portugal that allows to fill the quota, life has already revealed that this statement does not correspond to reality: there is production and there is quality, we need to create and give the possibilities for continuing to develop and create more quality music in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u322	What happened with the introduction of the quota not only contributed to greater national music production as the radio audiences that broadcast it increased. Secondly, we propose that the quota be fixed by law and that it no longer be dependent on annual ports, which is a fixed value. What we have noted is that today the law defines that the quota is variable between 25 % and 40 %, but what we have seen is that the quota has been fixed by the minimum value. The exception was the period of the covid-19 pandemic, in which the quota increased to 30 % with the justification—and well—to support professionals injured by the paralysis of musical performances. There are therefore conditions for this fixing. However, this exceptional regime ceased and the quota returned to 25 %, which meant a backwardness without any justification. Thirdly, we propose improving the system of exceptions. The CFP considers that the exemption scheme should not consist of the mere exemption from the dissemination of Portuguese music. We understand that it should allow the exemption from the application of the sub-quota of novelties or the determination of a lower quota fixed by the carrier rather than by the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ). For the radio to be recognized as being dedicated to the dissemination of a particular musical genre that has reduced production in Portugal, this musical genre must fill at least 50 % of its programming. We want to prevent them from finding subterfuges in order not to spread Portuguese music. from here, we address artists, musicians, our recognition for the work they have been developing over the years, often in very difficult situations. In fact, as we saw during the pandemic, the cultural area, all its workers, from artists to technicians, were of the most penalized. All were penalized, but we can say that the activities of these workers were the first to close and the last to open, with all that it meant. Therefore, all his work of valuing Portuguese language and culture has our recognition, but must be recognized by all. We must create the conditions, including in legislation, to allow development and to allow all the space to be given to the creativity and dissemination of Portuguese music. Today, the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to take this step further, with the approval of the initiative proposed by the CFP. We are, of course, available to find solutions, to deepen the debate, to be able to open the way, but we do not miss this opportunity that the Assembly of the Republic has to take this step today. It is a step by valuing our artists, our musicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u323	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u324	I will finish, Madam President. It is a step towards valuing our language and culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u325	To submit Bill No. 725 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u326	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting precisely the artists and technicians who over the years, and not only in the pandemic, have provided us with their art and the value of differentiation and diversity. We know that Portuguese culture has definitely been fundamental to our identity and must be encouraged and promoted, disseminated and respected. Moreover, many times we have heard quotations in this Parliament about Portuguese music have been the motto of the « road to walk », which we cannot then carry off when we are talking about public policies that should promote and encourage, in particular through the quotas we are discussing today. The law established this variable minimum quota between 25 % and 40 % of Portuguese music on radios and, after many years with a minimum quota, in 2021 it was well updated to 30 %. However, two years later, we found a replacement for a minimum quota of 25 %, a retrofit that we do not understand or follow. The justification we heard from the Ministry of Culture began by being that this change was due to the pandemic, that is, to a very specific context. Exactly because we have spent a period of pandemic that has deeply affected artists, technicians, the question is that any backwardness in this sense is a profound injustice. Of course, after all the discontent demonstrated by the artistic community, the Minister of Culture has already tried to amend his hand and to say that many radios have maintained, on his own initiative, percentages of Portuguese music broadcasts above 30 %, and that what exists are problems of law enforcement, need for improved exemption rules and supervisory mechanisms. We share the view that an update and review is necessary, because today the Portuguese music market is not the same as when the law came into force, but this in no way invalidates the change of the minimum quota, quite the contrary. This is not even so little about the lack of quantity or diversity of styles, and it is certainly not about the lack of quality of Portuguese music that we are talking about, but about the lack of opportunity and any backwardness in this sense is absolutely essential. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know that the need for quotas is not the ideal, because in the ideal world it would not be necessary, but unfortunately we should introduce them and promote them, and that is why the NAP is presenting today an initiative aimed at protecting the Portuguese music sector, increasing the minimum compulsory quota of Portuguese music, establishing it between 30 % and 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u327	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u328	I shall conclude, Madam President. We therefore deeply thank all Portuguese artists who have subscribed to the petition, who have mobilized themselves and who daily provide us with their art.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u329	Presented the bills, we will move on to the intervention period. To that end, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this World Day of Portuguese Language we welcome Portuguese musicians and music as a cultural manifestation that, in addition to other cultural activities, deserves protection, encouragement and broad support... [[PSD applause.]] ... that guarantee its development as a cultural activity diffuser of identity aspects of a people, such as language, uses and customs, as well as reinforce the creativity and success of musical artists, also contributing to the international affirmation of our music. In order to ensure these objectives, the law of the radio currently in force has established a minimum compulsory quota of 25 %, which can be fixed up to 40 %, for the inclusion of Portuguese music in the programming of sound broadcasting, and provides for the determinations of the broadcast quotas mentioned above to be established annually by regulation approved by the Government in the form of a portal. This scheme was first amended in January 2021 by means of the portal which fixed the minimum compulsory quota of Portuguese music in the music programming of the radios by 30 %, valid for one year. The Minister of Culture of then justified this amendment as a response measure to the pandemic of covid-19, with the aim of increasing the dissemination of Portuguese music and its appreciation for the benefit of authors, artists and producers. It could be thought that the current Minister of Culture, for ignorance, forgetfulness or simply inertia, would have allowed the mentioned expiry of the door, and therefore automatically the minimum quota of 25 %, provided for in the general law, would remain in force again. It is surprising, however, that the Minister of Culture has come to argue that the decision to reduce the quota was intended by the fact that, beyond the pandemic emergency, Portuguese artists would no longer be deprived of concert and therefore this loss of revenue suffered is no longer evident. Faced with the controversy generated, the Minister of Culture, last month, changed his opinion, saying that thought was necessary and informed about the definition of the minimum mandatory quota of Portuguese music on the radios. For this so-called reflection, contributions were requested from the different actors in the sector, including artists and radios. As a result, the Minister of Culture has now said that, after all, the quota of Portuguese music is anachronistic, calling on the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication and Parliament to amend the law, with regard to the quota of Portuguese music in the radios, discarding its own responsibility. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we appreciate three bills that generally raise the minimum mandatory quota of Portuguese music on radios. However, this measure per se is not enough, neither near nor far, to solve this whole problem. In fact, there are still specificities related to the application of this minimum quota, as well as the existence of several exceptions, as well as the model of supervision and its sanction framework, among other very serious aspects that require reflection and debate. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD Parliamentary Group considers that this is the subject of the debate in the specialty and is already available to participate actively and constructively in balanced and balanced solutions for the various interests concerned. [[PSD applause.]] The conciliation of the different views on this issue should be worth a careful approach, because it is understood that the introduction of a minimum quota has helped, and to a great extent, the dissemination of Portuguese music. It is no less true that current times require more consistent measures with the current market. It is necessary to take into account all the complexity of the two sectors involved, not from an perspective of artists versus radio. In the background, the main role that can and should be taken before this situation is to find ways and solutions in which everyone is going to win and, above all, Portuguese music, Portuguese language and Portuguese culture. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u331	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u332	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals which today three parliamentary groups submit to increase the minimum percentage of mandatory Portuguese music quotas in radio stations are proposed that the Liberal Initiative does not follow for several reasons. We consider, as a general principle, quotas to be an unacceptable share of freedom of programming for Portuguese radio stations and confer an intellectual minority status on artists themselves, as if they were smaller parts of the music market. As we know, they're not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u333	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u334	Today, Portuguese music has an impact all over the world. We don't need to retreat too much to remember names that won when there were no mandatory quotas, because their artistic talent was enough to impose themselves before very diverse audiences, not only in Portugal as well as abroad. But back to 2017, when Salvador Sobral won the Eurovision Song Festival with a proudly sung song in Portuguese, which deserved applause not only at the level of our continent, but a little bit everywhere. [[PS MP Jamila Madeira protests.]] Was it quota product? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u335	No, it was Salvador Sobral!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u336	It was the product of artistic talent, which is far superior to any law waged to impose minimum consumption, defining a policy of taste.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u338	For the Liberal Initiative, it is not for the State to define policy of taste or impose patterns of consumption on Portuguese, much less in private stations, freely managed by its owners. If the State wants to impose a minimum percentage on Antenna 1 or Antenna 3, let it do so, even if it should not. But it is abusive that the State itself assumes itself as programmer of private stations. Gentlemen, that time has changed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we live in the 21st century, the century in which, at any time, we can listen to music on YouTube or Spotify. Will the parliamentary groups here propose the increase of the minimum quotas on radios also require identical percentages on platforms?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u339	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u340	Indisputable names of contemporary Portuguese music, as diverse as Pedro Abrunhosa, Rui Veloso, Mariza, Dulce Pontes, Ana Moura, Rodrigo León, Carminho or Camané, are imposed on the market for their artistic value, without need of the paternalism of any legislator. People should hear the music they want, wherever they want, whenever they want, when they want, without us, without paternalism, without programming defined by the laws of the state, no matter what intentions are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u341	Ask them what they think of your position!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u342	In Brazil, the music that is most listened to is, by far, Brazilian music. No quota! In Spain, the music that is most listened to is also Spanish, without quotas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u343	No quota? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u344	We trust people that they must have the freedom to make the radio that they understand, in the ways they decide, passing the music that they choose and that the listeners prefer. Every day, happily, there are new songs in Portuguese, in multiple offers, for the most different tastes. Let the market operate without legislative paternalism, without the state recommending what we should or should not hear. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u345	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u346	I shall now conclude, Madam President. We respect Portuguese musicians, respect Portuguese music, but, above all, we trust people. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u347	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival does not oppose the increase in Portuguese music shares in the radios. However, we must point out that these proposals do not go beyond some difficulties. From now on, they do not clearly clarify what they mean by « Portuguese music». Is it produced in Portugal, even by foreigners? Is it produced by Portuguese all over the world? Is it the song that is sung in Portuguese? It is that today, on the World Day of Portuguese Language, we celebrate the language spoken by 300 million people, the same language that is under attack today, by cultural Marxism, and that needs to be defended. What matters today is how many Portuguese artists are truly benefiting from this measure. Is this really bringing for our radios, fairy, song, fandango, corridor, or Madeira's dance? I leave the question, which is a fundamental issue, because equality proclaimed by the artistic environment does not exist, at least in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There are artists in Portugal who are more equal than others, and this discrimination pleases some of the proponents. The quotas they proclaim here today are not to be heard on the 13th of May, on the radio, or on the Maria da Fonte. Quotas are for your friends, those who sing in the Bloc camp or in the Avante. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, for the extreme left, there is high culture and culture that can only be cancelled. In Portugal, an artist can confess himself Communist — or made communist, if he is from the Block — even knowing that communism killed millions of people, even knowing that communism promotes fields of reeducation, the gulag and concentration camps, even knowing that in the last century, communism killed priests and faithful in Mexico, even knowing that, at the hands of the MPLA (People's Liberation Movement of Angola), many women died, images, nuns. [[Congrats from the CH.]] An artist in Portugal can even be a socialist, even knowing that socialism destroys all countries where it passes. We don't need to go any further: just look at Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] An artist in Portugal may even be from the right that the left likes. It can only be patriotic, love our culture, love our tradition, which is the same as saying « be of the Coming». In 2020, Olavo Bilac was publicly sanated and persecuted by former Bloc leaders simply for singing at a concert of the Arrival. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u349	Last month, a talented singer, who sings Portuguese, was criticized for allegedly being sympathetic to the Arrival and singing at the ceremonies of April 25.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u350	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u351	More: it deserved until the Polygraph was checked — the new PIDE (International Police and State Defense) and the new Blue Pen of the regime — which came to verify its alleged sympathy with the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This check generated a wave of hatred and cancellation to a young musician in Portugal. Therefore, do not pretend that they love culture, because we all know that, for you, culture is a weapon to make your revolution. And we will resist! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I conclude by saying that while you present forms of subsidisation for the artists who act downstream, you are seeking to look up and act upstream. It is necessary to take culture to all Portuguese, to ensure that everyone can go to shows, because culture cannot be seen as a luxury. The arrival seeks to return to educational establishments the mission of preparing young people and opening their eyes and, above all, their hearts to art and beauty. And, yes, I say here the 'beautiful', that you are trying to destroy and that we will do everything we can to preserve. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u352	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Sousa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u353	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall try to return to the debate and to the seriousness of the debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u354	If you want serious, you have to get out of there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u355	Actually, what are we talking about, when we refer to Portuguese music quotas on the radios? We are talking about protecting what is essential to us. We are talking about the defense and promotion of Portuguese music and language, which we celebrate today. We are talking about the appreciation of our authors, composers and interpreters, who are here today. We are talking about the sustainability of the national music industry, the promotion of new talents, the opening up of new markets, the need to resist the worldwide standardization of Anglo-Saxon music. in a country as diverse as ours, culturally and musically, the introduction of music quotas on the radio is actually an entry door to discover ourselves. To burn, from now on, the liberal stage of the discussion, no, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, this is not an act of protectionism; it is an act of regulation of a public good, because hertzian waves are a public good granted by the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, except for liberal denial, the introduction of music quotas on the radio does not divide this House. We cannot but underline the pioneering role that the PS had in presenting legislative proposals on this subject, with the current President of the Assembly of the Republic, Augusto Santos Silva, to be the first subscriber of a proposal to broadcast Portuguese music on the radio. Many years have passed since then, but legislation has not changed. Since 2010 the national music quota has been established annually at a minimum of 25 %. It was only in 2021, in the very particular context of the pandemic that the share of Portuguese music on the radios rose to 30 %. Now, returning to the possible normal and with the automatic reduction of quota to the 25 %, three parties — the PCP, the Bloc and the PAN — present bills that require quota increases. The PS welcomes the proposals submitted because they promote the debate. But deciding whether the quota should be 25 %, 30 % or 35 % is actually a minimum debate. At this point we must call ourselves, yes, to take the opportunity, to evaluate the legislation we have and the issues that amount determine the definition of the quota. The PCP bill clearly points to this path and, although we do not agree with some of the proposals put forward, it has the merit of opening the door to this debate in the specialty, for which we are available. The law has not been subject to review for 13 years. This happens in a market where production, dissemination and consumption have undergone profound transformations, to which the law seems foreign. Let us ask ourselves, for example, whether the system of exceptions in force makes sense. The legislator has left the ERC — which is now diminished in its action, as we know, because the PSD does not want to choose its new representatives — the possibility of exempting from quota law the musical thematic programmes whose programming is based on the dissemination of insufficiently produced genders in Portugal. But really, what kind are these? What was true in 2010 is no longer true today. Today, the national market is much more dynamic, more diversified, expanded its audiences, increased popularity and quality, professionalized. Today, Portugal has national bands enshrined in rap or hip-hop, has a much more open market for blues. However, these musical styles remain in the box of styles insufficiently produced in Portugal, which means that there continue to be thematic programs exempt from compliance with the quota, when others, who fight for the same audiences, are obliged to comply. Question: is today's surveillance regime being monitored? at this time, the regime is voluntary. It is the radios that insert the data into the ERC platform created for this purpose, and the regulator itself tells us that only half of the radio reports this data. Should we not assess today whether it makes more sense to maintain a variable quota, or to set the quota at a given value? from our point of view, these issues deserve us to call all those involved in the sector for a reasoned, informed and clarified debate, because, if these issues are resolved, they will have a great impact on the future of the national music industry and national radio. This is, for the Socialist Party, the balanced way to defend the diverse, resilient and unique mosaic of which Portuguese music is made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u356	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this World Day of Portuguese Language, we have an excellent opportunity to understand that taking care of our common space is also to take care of culture and that in culture there are things that cannot work only for the market. It was said recently that Salvador Sobral won the Eurovision Song Festival and was not thanks to the quotas. Well, the Eurovision Song Festival is a clear case of quotas. There are, in fact, 100 % quotas for Portuguese music, sung in Portuguese or English, on a public television that is the RTP (Radio e Television de Portugal ), and then on a competition organised by several televisions, most of them public, there is a share of music for each country. Thus, many things that would not come to the public's ears, if it were merely the logic of the market to be sent, come to the public's ears and become success precisely by this construction, which is one of those social-democratic constructions typical of the post-World War II. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz can confirm that she is. It has also been said that it is impossible to quote certain authors in this House. Then I wanted to conclude with the words of a great Portuguese-speaking author, who said to us: “Now you will hear stars! - Sure. - You've lost your sense! And I will tell you, however, / That, to hear them, I often wake up/ And open the windows, pale with astonishment... / [... ] And I will tell you: “Amay to understand them! / For only those who love can hear/ can hear and understand stars. Do not keep on seeking. ” Valid for the stars, valid for the Portuguese language — words of Olavo Bilac, great Brazilian romantic poet of the 19th century. [[Congrats from PS Members Jamila Madeira and Rosário Gambôa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u358	To close the debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I record the most important of this debate, which was also mentioned by Mrs Carla Sousa, who is the fact that quotas do not divide this House, except for the Liberal Initiative, with quite confusing and contradictory arguments. I am not going to discuss with Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz the international projection of Amália Rodrigues' career — I think it was to her that she was referring, when she spoke of the incomparable talent of some Portuguese artists. It is, in fact, the greatest voice of the 20th century, not only Portuguese. I don't hear her spending much time on the radio. Portugal has two musical styles classified as Immaterial Heritage of Humanity. I don't hear them spend much time on the radio. I do not believe, as has already been said, that Salvador Sobral is the product of something other than a public policy of promoting Portuguese music, produced by a public radio paid by all of us, which, in fact, IL wants to privatize. Therefore, I find it offensive that the honourable Member comes here to try an argument that says: "Attention, those who have the talents have revenged and those who do not come back is because they have no talent. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u360	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u361	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u362	That is the argument the Liberal Initiative brought here. Not only do I not agree with him, as I reject this argument deeply—in fact, I am, as I am, a fan confesses many musical styles that unfortunately do not pass on the radio. The Liberal Initiative has another fallacy in its speech, which is to consider, in some way—that I think it is hallucinated—that the large industries that today are imposed on music or other artistic areas have not been protected by public policies. The fallacy is to think that we all consume Hollywood, without Hollywood being protected by the U.S. public policies ; to think that we consume French cinema, without the fact that French cinema had a great investment from the French Government ; to think that we all consume Almodóvar and that Almodóvar is not a product of the Spanish public policies supporting culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u363	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u364	All this is the product of the hallucination to think that the market imposes on us, by work and grace of the Holy Spirit, what is better and not what is promoted by certain policies, particularly public policies. What we can't be condemned to hearing Shakira in the morning. I appreciate Shakira, but I think we have the right to a quality Portuguese musical production, which is recognized, and it is of recognition that we are speaking. Finally, Mr President, saying the following: quotas have a direct relationship with musical production. The more quotas there are, the greater the musical production. That's what happened in Brazil and that's why in Brazil we no longer need quotas. It is because they have already existed in the past and, therefore, it is no longer necessary. The musicians don't pass on the radio because they have concerts and they have concerts because they pass on the radio.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u365	All right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u366	That is why we need quotas and also support local radios, so that they can, of course, support these quotas and give future to the world of Portuguese culture and artists. [[Congrats from BE and the Member of the PS Rosário Gambôa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u367	So we end point three of our agenda and move on to point four, which consists of the assessment of Petition No. 24 / XV / 1. a ( Cláudia Sofia da Costa Narciso Labrujó et al.) — At the end of the intermunicipal company of Alto Minho Waters, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 574 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the dissolution of the Alto-Minho Waters company and the return of public control of water and sanitation services to the municipalities of the region and 600 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Remunicipalization of the services provided by Alto Minho Waters in Arcos de Valdevez, Caminha, Paredes de Cura, Ponte de Lima, Valença, Viana do Castelo and Vila Nova de Cerveira. To present the initiative of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor, and I ask Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the silence needed to be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the CFP is to greet the more than 8,000 subscribers of this petition, which brings to the Assembly of the Republic the concrete problem that resulted from the creation of the Intermunicipal Company of Upper Mining Waters ( AdAM ). This petition asks the Assembly of the Republic to put an end to this company, since from the moment the difficulties for users were created, in fact, numerous, with exponential increases in the bill of water and sanitation. This company, mainly owned by the Waters of Portugal with 51 % and the rest by the municipalities, was created in January 2020 in a line of taxation by the Government of aggregation of water supply and sanitation networks, an imposition for municipalities to aggregate their networks regardless of their position, because only in this way could they have access to Community funds. This is something we are contesting because, as matters of competence of the municipalities, there should not be this imposition by the government on access to Community funds. In fact, the result of the creation of this company is in sight, with numerous atropellas and in which it was very significant the exponential increase in turnover for unacceptable values. This, when access to water and sanitation is a fundamental public service. Access to water is a right that must be guaranteed to all citizens. He added this, too, an ineffective service that led to numerous complaints. In fact, this company, at some point, had more complaints registered in the regulator. What we propose, and going to meet the demands by the population, is the dissolution of this company and the full reversal to the municipalities of the services provided by it, as well as the return of all the amounts that have been wrongly charged to the citizens. We also propose that all conditions be ensured to ensure equal access to water and sanitation, without penalizing families and populations, as well as, of course, to ensure jobs and labour rights for all workers of the Upper Mining Waters company and, lastly, to put an end to this intrusion in the competences of local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u370	I recall that at the initiative of the CFP, in a draft resolution, the Assembly of the Republic recommended exactly this, that the authorities in each of the municipalities be assured the decision of the most suitable solution for their territory and their population, and not this imposition, which continues to exist...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u371	It was you who did it, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u372	... and that prevents the access of municipalities to funds for the urban water cycle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u373	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Gilberto Anjos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to congratulate, in a very special way, the petitioners and congratulate them on the use of the right of petition in the presentation of the exhibition of the interest of Alto Minho, more specifically of the consumers of the seven municipalities covered by the company of the public and business sector Águas do Alto Minho, S.A. , which has affected, disturbed and created a set of constraints of public knowledge, for which the Socialist Party's bench is naturally supportive and attentive. The draft resolution under consideration, supported in the petition of this agenda item, takes into account essentially two aspects: a first related to the initial needs in the implementation of the ADAM, which resulted in a large number of complaints ; and a second aspect related to the increase in the cost paid by the final consumer. The Portuguese Communist Party intends, with this draft resolution, that the Government take measures necessary for the dissolution of the company Águas do Alto Minho and for the full reversal to the municipalities of the services provided by this company.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u375	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u376	It is therefore important to ask Mrs Paula Santos what the next day will be. This is probably the fundamental issue around this problem, where the Socialist Party's bench assumes a thoughtful and responsible analysis and position, without interfering with the independence of the authorities, compared with the impetuous position of the Portuguese Communist Party. Therefore, I wonder how the Portuguese Communist Party can ensure that, with the remunicipalization of water services and with the costs associated with the dissolution of the company, municipalities will simultaneously reduce the price paid by final consumers and maintain the verified improvement of the quality of water distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u377	The State passes jurisdiction to the chambers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u378	How does the Portuguese Communist Party guarantee continuity with the necessary investments in the expansion, maintenance and replacement of the network? Finally, I ask the Portuguese Communist Party if it is known that some of the municipalities targeted, democratically elected like us, do not want this service to be remunicipalized, identifying an efficiency gain with the scale that was created and the improvement of territorial cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u379	The central state has nothing to impose!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u380	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u381	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question you are raising. Interference made the government when it decided to create a set of restrictions under the Community funds of PT2020 ( Portugal 2020 ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u382	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u383	...that do not come from the European Union — it was the government that created them. These, yes, limited the possibility of municipalities being able to make their decisions regarding investments they want to make in their water supply and sanitation network.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u384	Great Democrats!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u385	It was the government that prevented a municipality from understanding itself to make the investment and not to join anyone, to have access to the funds. You think that's okay? You think that's right? You're not penalizing? Are you not conditioning and pushing the municipalities, which was what happened in this particular case, to make other decisions, those that the government wants? For what purpose? These problems which occurred with regard to the provision of public water services, are said to have occurred after the establishment of this company.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u386	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u387	Then! That's what we're talking about. You think it is the right answer, but the people feel that they have not brought this petition to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u388	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u389	You wanted to create a daddy with the question of the next day, but the next day it is settled because the municipalities — if they have these powers! — they have always dealt with these matters all these years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u390	Now try it there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u391	Or are you saying that municipalities do not have the capacity to do so and that they cannot actually create the conditions for the reversal? That's not a question. What the honourable Member brought here was a non-question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u392	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u393	I would like to make it clear, Mr President, in conclusion, that the CFP is in solidarity with the demands of the people, contrary to the Socialist Party which claimed to be, but in particular, it is not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u394	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u395	The CFP has translated, with this proposal in particular, the demands of the populations: right to water and sanitation, public services with quality and accessible. That doesn't seem to be what's happening right now. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u396	To present the Resolution Project No 600 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to welcome the more than 8,000 petitioners who brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic. Making a small history, we are talking about a company, the High Mining Waters, which was formed only in 2019. At the time, it involved the merger, for 30 years, of the municipal water and sanitation services of seven municipalities in the district of Viana do Castelo, but the fact is that after the aggregation of the municipal water services, which used to work normally, within what were the competences of their municipalities, there were a number of problems which, many of them, are still to be solved today. We are talking about a brutal increase in water tariffs, the appearance of absolutely gross errors in invoices and readings, undue charges in sanitation rates, deficits in the service itself, failures in the administrative organization. Therefore, as early as January 2020, complaints and complaints began to flow with this company, and this led to the suspension of the issue of invoices by the Alto Minho Water company in April 2020 in order to try to regulate all the situations behind it. This is the mirror of a complete failure of this model, which was chosen by the government. And only in January 2021 did they start regularizing consumption. What has happened is that this abusive billing, mistakes and failures in the administrative organization only denote what was a very big mistake. As has already been said, it was a choice of the government — not just an imposition, it was a thought choice of the government itself! — but, in addition to the problems that are still causing users of essential water service, it has also added another point that has to do with precariousness. In fact, the company Águas do Alto Minho, in 2020, ended up making a contract for the provision of services from 13 workers to eight stores that hold, and it still got to the point of pressuring seven workers who were affected by the municipalities and who agreed to integrate the Alto Minho Waters. However, they have now lost this link with the municipality and are as a service delivery company. Therefore, the case of the High Mining Water is absolutely illustrative of the error that was the government's option and of what this means not only for an essential public service for the populations, but also for workers who already belonged to the municipality. What we cannot accept is that this option, not only in the case of High Mining Waters, but a little throughout the country, is to mean that public services are hostage to a model of organization and provision of a service that does not serve populations. Note that we are not talking about any service, we are talking about public water service. The truth is that we already have several municipalities at national and even international level that are increasingly reverting the aggregation of services. Therefore, what the project of the Left Block here presents, in line with what is requested by the petitioners themselves, is that effectively this option that was made by the aggregation may have an end, that there may be a path to disintegration, that goes back to the municipalities what has always belonged to them, that is, their autonomy relative to the management of municipal water services, and that the service can be restored in quality and at affordable prices to all the populations of these municipalities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u398	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the subscribers of the petition under consideration, also the proponents of the PCP and Block initiatives, with recommendations to the Government on the same subject. On January 11, 2019, the contract of public partnership between the State and the municipalities of Arcos de Valdevez, Caminha, Paredes de Coura, Ponte de Lima, Valença, Viana do Castelo and Vila Nova de Cerveira, thus allowing the creation of the system of waters of Alto Minho. Subsequently, in July 2019, it was created the High Mining Waters, having been approved the statutes and elected the first social bodies of society. For this reason, the actions carried out during this first year were of an eminently administrative nature, inherent in the transition period. In the framework of the management of this partnership, the municipalities maintain the capacity to intervene, in particular in the approval of tariffs and their updates, in the business plans and investments approved by a partnership committee, in which the authorities and the central State are equally represented. All of the company's activities are thus carried out under the shareholder supervision of the Waters of Portugal and municipalities, of the partnership committee, but also under the supervision of a tax board and external auditors. If the year 2020 was marked by the start, it should be noted that 2020 and 2021 were, for the generality of companies, atypical years, the result of the conjunctural situation determined by the pandemic and, like 2022, influenced by the international geopolitical crisis. In our understanding, the adopted management model enables territorial integration of municipal systems towards maximizing economies of scale, as well as the integration of public water supply and urban waste water sanitation systems in order to maximize economies of range. Its geographical area reaches 1585 km, provides 109 000 customers, as well as collects and treats more than 6 million m3 of water, produced by about 75 000 customers. We know of the discontent and complaints during the early years of the population, claiming that the reality demonstrated that reliability decreased and the quality of the service decreased considerably, alerting for invoicing problems. However, for the current year, the company plans its investment plan, which amounts to EUR 25, EUR 4 million, to EUR 11, EUR 9 million already in 2023. In view of the fact that the Águas do Alto Minho company has been guaranteeing and improving the proper public service in accordance with the objective of its constitution, and taking into account that the company is in the first years of its activity, having also suffered the effects resulting from the pandemic situation, it is on its way to reach its full operational potential as desired. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u400	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Party welcomes the signatories of the petition « At the end of the Intermunicipal Company of High Mining Waters », which says a lot about the Portuguese cultural failure. I have three notes. First note: the state's gross dictatorship on society. The reason is simple, is that the governmental caste has always been an enemy of a political culture participating in a civilized democracy itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u403	Permanent commitments between rulers and governors are avoided to the maximum. The preference is to lower the citizen’s relationship with the State by means of a political culture of the third world’s own subjects: obey the state and pay! from this culture derives the ritual of insulting populist anyone who dares to respect, hear and value ordinary people, their genuine feelings, their daily problems. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In the mental universe of the subject, the state-parent is great, even when it only works effectively in the tax assault on taxpayers. The same municipal powers that over the decades have mismanaged access to an essential asset — water — in 2019, created the Alto Minho Waters company. From one day to the next, the value of the collection of water consumption fired between 50 % and 100 %. Or, worse: a consumption of 40 € per month became 250 € — it is an example. We are at the level of the feudal rights of the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u405	Second note: the State minimizes and impoverishs society because the government class ignores what self-responsibility is. Central State and municipal chambers live addicted to political and ideological management of population resources. This cultural disease is incompatible with rational management and with collective prosperity. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Employees and more employees are included in excess of the change in electoral influence. The budget logic follows the same benchmark. Even with very high taxes, it is a matter of time up to the financial situation of the state or the disbursed authorities. But there's no problem, there's an iron test to whom you can pass the blame for profit. since it was created the High Mining Water Company. But the source of the problem remains intact: state management politicized, cacist, irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u406	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u407	The municipal powers of Arcos de Valdevez, Caminha, Coura walls, Ponte de Lima, Valença, Viana do Castelo and Vila Nova de Cerveira are masters in art. The PCP and the Left Block require water management to return to the state monopoly, to the same municipal chambers that are the source of the problem. [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u408	Do you want to privatize the water?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u409	This cultural orientation is that of submission to the great father, the State. That's very strong in Africa, but we're not in Africa. the State is responsible for exercising the function of arbitration, in a fair and effective manner, in protecting the access of populations to essential goods such as water, and the State is responsible for reducing taxes. Poor governance and impoverishment are elite cultural products. Third and last note: whoever lives from the cultural struggle to the majority accused of harming minorities — racial, sexual, ethnic, religious or other — will never realize that the Portuguese majority will not cease to be martyred by inequality between the large metropolitan areas and the extensive peripheral areas of the interior and the rural world, including small localities. The populations of the High Mint who have no illusions. The progressive, globalist and left-wing ideology has always been and will always be their enemy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u410	You now have the floor to speak to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 10 000 petitioners who today bring us a matter of greatest relevance and which cannot be underestimated or minimized. In fact, it must deserve the greatest attention of this House, especially at a time when the extreme drought threatens our economy and survival. Water cannot be a business and must first be regarded as an essential asset that must be managed with responsibility and equity, and thus remain in the public sphere. The NAP cannot fail to support this initiative and also express its support for the petitioners and the initiatives proposed here by the PCP and the Left Block. The increases in the invoices reported in this petition are even more incomprehensible when it is public that last year, the water, sanitation and waste companies in Upper Mining have accumulated profits of EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u412	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that we be silent, because I am interested in listening to the honourable Member. [[Pause.]] I think you can proceed, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u413	Thank you very much, Mr President. How can you accept that there are still municipalities in Portugal where you pay more for consuming 1 m3 of water than for not consuming any water? This is a policy that is totally irresponsible and out of line with the fight against climate change and extreme drought. This is not how we will raise awareness or achieve more sustainable water use. We cannot continue to have reactive policies to solve this problem. A serious and urgent plan for water management is needed, but also to combat the waste of this precious good, especially in agriculture and livestock, which, as we well know, are the sectors that most consume and waste water in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u414	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few days ago we were in this same plenary discussing the state to which the business sector of the state arrived and here we are again discussing another public service that counts with the participation of the central State and which, as it could not fail, is presenting shortcomings. We thank each of the more than 8,000 subscribers of this petition, thank the petitioners for presenting this problem and thank this example of democratic participation. We understand all the concerns presented, but, for the Liberal Initiative, this is a topic that should be addressed in local instances, which, for us, are the venues to deal with such topics as this. in this debate, we talked about the water distribution service in various municipalities of the district of Viana do Castelo, in Alto Minho, who chose to join efforts and create an intermunicipal company that would bring efficiency and scale in the provision of this essential service to the populations. However, if the objective was to bring efficiency and scale to the municipalities of Alto Minho, they were deceived in choosing their majority partner. High-Minho Water has as a majority partner the central State and, in fact, it is not understood how a service that was previously municipalized suddenly becomes having the central State with such a large ascendancy over all the decisions taken at this level. This may even be another example of how the Central State tries to set a position in all spheres of society, but it is also an example of centralism to have the central state, whether the Assembly of the Republic or the Government, to deliberate on the future of a company freely constituted by local municipalities. The choice for the establishment of the company Águas do Alto Minho was a decision of the municipalities of Alto Minho and for the Liberal Initiative it must be these municipalities to decide, or not, for their continuity, under the penalty of the central government to violate the legal sphere protected by the constitutional principle of the autonomy of the local power. Decentralize is also to believe that municipalities are able to act freely, to choose, to be responsible for decisions they make and, in this case, this is clear to the Liberal Initiative. Thus, the voice must be given to the people, the monks, the municipal assemblies, the waitress executives. In the Liberal Initiative we do not necessarily oppose the recommendations that are being made here and which are being debated and the vote, but these are the entities that I said they should decide on the future of the Upper Mining Waters company, and not the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u416	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u417	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet the 8338 subscribers of the petition, in the person of the first subscriber, Mrs. Cláudia Labrujó, who is present here today. I also take advantage of welcoming all the users of the High Mining Waters, more than 100 000, who filed complaints in 2020, at a time when this company actually plunged into chaos, harming tens and tens of thousands of consumers. Having said this, concerning the object of this petition, as well as the object of the two draft resolutions which, in short, both intend to extinguish the company Waters do Alto Minho, precise and I intend to make an intervention here that has three distinct vectors: speaking of past, present and future. The past is the year 2020, the year of the constitution, the start of the business of this company and with it the problems. We have had, as I said, more than 100 000 complaints, because users, from one day to the next, have been confronted with invoicing errors, gross errors, identification errors and with these accounts, as shown by the petition, often having spent from 20 € to 1000 €, and these were the deviations that happened to about 10 % of consumers. And, no, it's not just this number, these deviations and these mistakes. In the face of such errors, the PSD Parliamentary Group has repeatedly urged the Government here, in this House, for its responsibilities in the management of the company. It has always been a business management issue. [[PSD applause.]] We understand and understand — and therefore this greeting — the indignation of the people and the high-school people with what was happening to them, with the accounts they received in their homes, the situation worsened by the fact that we were in the middle of the pandemic and the personal contact and access to services was even more difficult, because we were almost always confined during this period, which still made life more difficult for people. This is the past, 2020. Today, in 2023, let's talk about the present. The present is quite different from the scenario that is in this petition and that it was the moment that took you to subscribe to it and also to what was done. The present is a business that normally works. It is a public company—I want to underline it well, here, it is a public company— because the message that is being sold here constantly is that it is a company that is not public. It is a public company that has as its associates the municipalities and the Waters of Portugal, all of the public sector of the State, and the State is not only the Government. Therefore, it is public, as it has always been, because water is a fundamental good and it is a human right and, whether it is in the sphere of the municipalities, or it is in the sphere of the central State, it remains public. We can't confuse the concepts, because high-flying people deserve and need more than that. [[PSD applause.]] Having said this, it is also important that we put some facts back and bring them to the knowledge of the Portuguese and Portuguese who are here to discuss these draft resolutions, let me side by side, the result of the absolute ignorance, because their authors, certainly, have never paid or seen a bill from the ADAM — it is not my case, that I am from the Alto Minho and I am a customer, user and consumer of the ADAM —, and that only explains that they have now, at the last hour, presented these projects, completely out of step with the current reality. Therefore, only that can explain them, because the foundations are not true. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] To all this motivation, there are a few more facts, which is also important to bring to this House, clarifying the Portuguese and Portuguese who are listening to us. On several occasions, all partner municipalities—and let us make it clear that the various political forces governing the municipalities of this partnership are, either the CDS or the Socialist Party, or the Social Democratic Party, therefore, not a political-party issue, but a matter of public good and public consumption—in their municipal assemblies, motions of attention were adopted to study and analyse at every moment the impact of this partnership between the municipalities and the waters of Portugal. It is up to them to find out and validate this partnership and whether it has, or not, conditions to continue. It is not this House, under the penalty of violating the separation of powers. For the PSD, municipalities, even because of their proximity, know better than anyone what is best for their populations, by which they were chosen. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, even to conclude, Mr President, just one more note, which I cannot help but do, which is about the future: what the municipalities and the waters of the High Mining really need is that the Government will comply with what it has always committed itself and that it will bring the funds and the conditions for investments in water, sanitation, network enlargement and maintenance to be possible. That is what is really needed in the High Mining Waters. And it's not just the High Mint Waters, it's the little ones and all their users and consumers, because the truth is we need water with quality, efficiency, no leaks and, above all, a quality service. I trust, as we trust, that the municipalities will be vigilant in ensuring it. Because, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and also high-flights, if the municipalities perceive and perceive that the High Mint Waters are not the best for the populations, they will certainly be the first to leave. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u418	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard here saying that the fault of the situation with the waters of the Middle East is globalism, or that it is for the State to be involved and, as it could not fail to be, that is what Mrs Joana Cordeiro said, I quote when they say that it is not an ideological obsession—if it was the State, it could not fail to be, it gave us all these problems. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] Then we will go down to the earth, not only to the beautiful lands of the High Mint, but to others throughout the whole country. In the Letter, it was a Lena Group company, which is private, and the same thing happened and the camera became one of the most indebted in the country. We have numerous examples of something that happens that does not have to do with the High Mining Waters having a majority public shareholder, but with the fact that the public policy framework, which created these inter-municipal consortia, is forcing municipalities to have a type of water management that is not good for them. I recall that this consortium has practically all the municipalities of the district of Viana do Castelo, but of it are neither part of the Monção, nor Melgaço, nor Ponte da Barca.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u420	Because they decided!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u421	And what Melgaço said in 2018 was that he did not enter this consortium, complaining of the lack of investment by the partnership in the expansion of water and sanitation systems and of the high rate that it anticipated. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] They were right Melgaço, Ponte da Barca and Monção, because the people were badly served in relation to the water, even above with a higher billing, with double costs, dropping everything in the municipalities that will be over-independed, as the Cartex remained, as Barcelos remained... Sometimes it's hard to hear about the real country, isn't it, Mrs. Member? Calm down, calm down! Let's talk about the real country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u422	It is not the Assembly of the Republic that will decide this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u423	These municipalities will continue to be damaged if they do not do what these initiatives propose, which is the state to support municipalities in remunicipalizing water services. That is why the Free, which has already denounced this case since 2020 and believes that water should only be paid to avoid excess consumption, will support these initiatives and, in the real world, support that municipalities can remuniify water services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u424	Sure! Do it. You don't need the Assembly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u425	We have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We are going to start the voting period. I request the services to operate the electronic quorum verification system and to request Mr. Ladies and gentlemen who sign up. [[Pause.]] I wonder if anyone could not register. Mrs Olga Silvestre informed the Bureau that she was unable to register. Have any more Members or Members of Parliament not been able to register? [[Pause.]] I would therefore ask the services to close the electronic quorum verification system and to advertise the results. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum and we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No. 329 / XV / 1. a ( Presented by L) — To regret the death of Luís Carmelo. To read it, you have the word Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u426	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Luís Carmelo, writer and academic, winner of the Portuguese Association of Writers' Trial Award in 1988, died this Sunday, April 30, at the age of 68. Born in Évora in 1954, his work is published in Portugal, Brazil, Spain, Netherlands, Mexico and Colombia. Doctorate in Semiotics by the University of Utreque, Netherlands, he was author of a literary and essayist work with more than forty titles in the area of romance, tale, essay, poetry, drama, manuals of the office of writing, child literature, and an argument for the long film, The Falla, by João Mário Grilo. Luís Carmelo was also a chronicler in the Expresso newspaper, in the RTP and in the publication Today Macau. He taught writing and culture in several institutions. In Lisbon, he created in 2008 and directed EC.ON-Creative Writing School. Since 2018, he has also become editor with New Mymosa, editor of titles in the area of the story, poetry and essay, who proposed to give space to consecrated authors to publish texts that do not take place in other editors, but also to new literary values that did not find space for publication. With more than 40 years of career, Luís Carmelo was honored on 22 April by the City Hall of Évora, in the public library of the city, within the framework of the Book Fair. His new novel The Planisfério was announced for June — coincidentally, a few days from the third time, the World Day of the Portuguese Language, on May 5, as decreed by UNESCO (United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization ). Luís Carmelo, writer, writer teacher, community creator of readers, editor, citizen solidarity and generous, wrote in Vision Approximate, biographical narrative that was one of his last books on the nature of the relationships between fiction and reality: “I know well that fiction is life. When you finally woke up I disappeared and there was the approximate vision. It will now be just that other vision that is going to drag more and more of you. Maybe that's the soul of your own longing. He already misses the admirers of his writing and his enthusiastic cultural citizenship. Meeting in Plenary this May 5, World Day of the Portuguese Language, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret at the death of Luís Carmelo, presenting his condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u427	Let us vote on the deliberative part of this motion for a vote of regret. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I would ask that we keep a minute's silence for the vote of regret that we just approved. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, the draft vote No 332 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L and a PSD Member ) — Greetings by the World Day of Portuguese Language, which I read: « On May 5, the World Day of Portuguese Language is celebrated, consecrated as such in 2019 by UNESCO, from a proposal dynamized by the then Ambassador of Portugal, António Sampaio da Novoa, and subscribed by all ambassadors of Portuguese-speaking countries accredited to this United Nations organization. Thus a very fair global projection was given to one day that the community of Portuguese-speaking countries had already celebrated since 2009 as the Portuguese Language Day of Culture in the CPLP ( Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries). Portuguese is the official language in nine states of four continents and in the Macao Special Administrative Region. The sum of their inhabitants is already about 300 million people. Portuguese is the most spoken language in the southern hemisphere and one of the languages that is expanding around the world. Portuguese is also the language in which some of today's most vibrant literature is expressed, as has been demonstrated, year by, for example, by the winners of the Camões Prize, such as Silviano Santiago, Paulino Aschisiano, Victor Manuel Aguiar and Silva, Chico Buarque de Holland or Germano Almeida, to quote the distinguished authors in recent years. This is how we all share this common heritage, which makes each one of us – Angolans, Brazilians, Cape Verdeans, Guineans, Mozambicans, Portuguese, São-Tomens or Timorese – responsible for their future, enriching the language with the different varieties with which we speak. It is therefore a living language, and as such we celebrate it. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the World Day of Portuguese Language, congratulating, on this day, all Portuguese speakers who contribute to their wealth and projection in the world, that is, to their future. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that I have just read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] We will now consider the Vote Project No 333 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L and a PSD Member ) — Greetings by the centenary of Salgado Zenha. As a former member of the Socialist Party, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias will read the vote, the parliamentary leader of that party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u428	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On May 2nd, the 100th anniversary of the birth of Francisco Salgado Zenha was celebrated, opposing the dictatorship of Salazar, lawyer, politician and illustrious Member, who came to be a major figure of the 20th century Portuguese. Natural de Braga, Salgado Zenha was formed by the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, where he stood out as a student and student leader, particularly as President of the Academic Association, from which he was dismissed for political reasons. It was then one of the central figures in the foundation of the Democratic Youth Unity Movement, the Youth MUD, where he met Mário Soares and became his friend and companion of political journey. In Lisbon, however, he began his career as a lawyer. It was frequent presence in criminal plenarys, defending political prisoners, showing their legal courage and brilliantness. His opposition to the dictatorship led him several times to prison. He joined socialist organizations that would be in the genesis in 1973 of the Socialist Party, that he was one of the founders. He participated and was one of the protagonists of the democratic transition as a member of provisional governments, where he was the Minister of Justice and Finance, and a Member, having been the first parliamentary leader of the PS in the Assembly of the Republic. In 1985 he was a candidate for the presidential elections. In 1990 he was decorated with the degree of Great Cross of the Order of Freedom. Salgado Zenha fought against dictatorship, democracy and freedom. He fought for others, being one of the architects of Portuguese democracy. He did all this with great courage, verticality and humanism. Having honours, his journey and personality still inspires respect and admiration, “extinguishing light, ” as his friend and former President of this Parliament Almeida Santos said, and more than deserved, because of this recognition. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls Salgado Zenha, welcoming the memory and its civic and political example on the date of the centenary of his birth. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSP, standing, PSD, standing, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u429	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence of relatives of Dr. Salgado Zenha, to whom, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I transmit our tribute. Let us now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 68 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Infrastructure Act. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The proposal goes down to 3. the Commission. The general vote on the Bill No 69 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] The proposal goes down to 3. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u430	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u431	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u432	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote in writing on these last two proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u433	Be registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 316 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — See Decree-Law No 57 - C / 2022 of 6 September, extending the exceptional complement to pensioners who are not resident in national territory and pensioners who are placed in private pension funds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, BE and L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 601 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — By application of Decree-Law No 57 - C / 2022, from 6 September to all reformed persons, irrespective of the pension paying entity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 616 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government pay the additional amount of 50 % to all pensioners and update pensions for the years 2023 and 2024 under Law 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u434	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u435	Mrs. Deputy, what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u436	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote in writing on the last three initiatives that have now been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u437	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 606 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Change the Housing Bases Act to ensure access to public housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We are now voting on a request by IL for a discharge from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 650 / XV / 1. a (IL) — restores the shape of urbanizable soils and establishes a simplified soil reclassification procedure. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill drops, under these conditions, to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 652 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — facilitates access to the state real estate real estate buildings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 727 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Reduces the rate of IMT applicable to the acquisition of own and permanent housing by young people by amending the IMT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the PAN, and abstentions from the Members of the PS Barbara Dias, Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Miguel Matos, Susana Barroso and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]] The general vote of Bill No 651 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — Exemption from seal tax on loans. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 657 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Reduce the cost of building dwellings by reducing value added tax(VAT) on construction, benefit, remodelling, renovation, restoration, repair or maintenance of buildings. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 658 / XV / 1. a (IL) — facilitates housing change situations by discounting the value of income paid to the value of income received for the purposes of calculating IRS. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 718 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, extending the period of exemption from municipal tax on buildings of buildings or part of urban buildings built, enlarged, improved or acquired for an expensive purpose for own and permanent housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 721 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Increases the worsening of IMI for returned buildings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the PS and the NAP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 723 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends the scope of the beneficiaries of extraordinary support to families for the payment of income and the provision of credit contracts by amending Decree-Law No 20 - B / 2023 of 22 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] We continue, in general, with the vote on Bill No. 729 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Extension of the exemption from IMT provided for in the Municipal Tax Code on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions ( CIMT ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote of Bill No. 664 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Establishs the mandatory minimum quota of 30 % Portuguese music in the musical programming of the audio broadcasting programme services. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L, votes against IL and abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] The project goes down to 12. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 717 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Set by 35 % the share of Portuguese music broadcast on the radio ( third amendment to Law No 54 / 2010 of 24 December ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L, votes against IL and abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] The project goes down to 12. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 725 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Change from 25 % to 30 % the minimum mandatory quota of Portuguese music in the musical programming of radio programme services. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L, votes against IL and abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] The project goes down to 12. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 574 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the dissolution of the Alto-Minho Waters company and the return of public control of water and sanitation services to the municipalities of the region. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u438	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u439	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u440	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote in writing on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Anabela Rodrigues and Mrs Dora Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u441	Be registered. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 600 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Remunicipalization of the services provided by Alto Minho Waters in Arcos de Valdevez, Caminha, Paredes de Cura, Ponte de Lima, Valença, Viana do Castelo and Vila Nova de Cerveira. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions against the IL and Members of PS Anabela Rodrigues and Dora Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u442	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u443	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u444	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on behalf of Annabela Rodrigues and Dora Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u445	It's registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u446	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u447	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u448	Mr President, I would also like to announce the delivery of a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u449	All right, it's registered, too. So there was a dissident in that statement. [[Laughing.]] We need to understand these subtleties. We now vote on the Resolution Project No 596 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — To safeguard the interests of Portuguese university students to carry out the Erasmus mobility programme in France. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the NAP and IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 502 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Repudiated the resolution of the European Parliament on the backwardness of the wolf protection status in Europe. [[The vote was taken by votes to CH, BE and PAN and PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP and L.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 503 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Study on the brave cat and creation of conservation program. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 565 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the extension of eligible beneficiaries and the change in the conditions of access to the credit line for decarbonisation and circular economy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PAN and L.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 522 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government assess the possibility of classifying the Journal of News archive. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution No 632 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the necessary grading of the Journal of News archive. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 500 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Audit of access to voluntary termination of pregnancy in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L and the PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira and the PSDP and the PS MPs Alexandra Leitão and Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u450	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u451	Mrs Alexandra Leitão, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u452	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u453	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u454	Mrs. Susana Amador, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u455	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on behalf of the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u456	All right, get registered. Let us then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 408 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends not to create local health units in Aveiro district and refuses to weaken the National Health Service through the concentration of services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE and L and abstentions from the PSD, IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u457	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u458	Mr Pedro Pinto, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u459	Mr President, it is to announce that I will issue a statement of vote on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u460	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u461	Mrs. Carla Madureira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u462	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. PSD members elected by Aveiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u463	All right, get registered. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 245 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the involvement of entities in the collection of data on forced sterilization practices of girls and women with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS MP Alexandra Leitão, Carla Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u464	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u465	Mrs. Susana Amador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u466	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote on behalf of the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u467	All right, get registered. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 551 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group and adopt a national plan to combat online hate speech. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L and the deputies of the PS Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira, votes against the CH and the IL and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u468	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u469	Mrs. Susana Amador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u470	Mr President, I shall deliver a statement of vote on behalf of the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u471	All right, get registered. I wonder if we can vote together on the two following requests. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall jointly vote on the request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of its proposal for an amendment to Article 5. the draft Law No 427 / XV / 1. a ( IL) ( Article 4. the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing ), and the request, submitted by the PS, by the plenary for the vote on the speciality of Articles 2. a is 4. the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on Bill No 427 / XV / 1. a ( IL). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] With inscriptions to intervene, I strongly request that no one exceed 2 minutes and that the DURPs not exceed 1 minute. For the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u472	Mr President, very telegraphically, the lawyers we are making today are of a strictly technical nature. in one of the cases, we realize that the best solution for cautioning the same result is not the creation of a single counter-ordination, but the setting of the maximum limit of the value of the fine that can be applied. In the second case, it is only a matter of maintaining a regime identical to the general regime, in doubt that the solution built could not be fully in line with it. Therefore, in doubt, the regime is maintained as it is at present. Finally, we make a precision when it comes into force, since services probably need more time to adapt. Therefore, the production of effects of the diploma differs over time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u473	For the PSD, you now have the floor of Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u474	Mr. President, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Works, Planning and Housing, there was a broad consensus between the Liberal Initiative, the PSD, the Socialist Party and the PCP to solve the problem of fines and costs of cases for the non-payment of tolls, in particular the SCUTS ( cost-free to user). There was a big difference between the entry into force. We have a problem today and we have found a solution for today, but the Socialist Party wants the solution to come into force only on 1 July 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u475	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u476	This is not a technical matter! I think it is a matter of political decency, so the PSD cannot follow this proposal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u477	We therefore maintain our proposal for the entry into force of the diploma 30 days after its publication. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u478	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the IL now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u479	Mr President, since this process began, six months ago, I received hundreds of messages from desperate people, with life destroyed by situations like this. Today is, therefore, a very happy day. I will not be able to answer all these messages, but I am sending a hug of hope to all the people who have contacted me and will be seeing us at this time. at a time of political life when polarization is a rule, it is important to mention that the merit of this proposal is not mine, nor is it just IL, but it is of all who were able to put the agendas aside and work so that this version could be approved and applied. at a time when there has been a lot of emphasis on examples of institutional degradation, it is important to note that the work on this proposal was an example of the dignity of the institution of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u480	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u481	They are therefore due to express thanks to all the coordinators of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Works, Planning and Housing, in particular to the Members of Hugo Costa and Márcia Passos, for their work and their contributions, which have made it possible to consensualize this proposal. [[Congratulations from IL and PSD Member Alexandre Poço.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u482	Looks like the delivery of the Oscars!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u483	One of the amendments that improves the proposal is the one that is now advocated by the PSD. When we drew up the original proposal, we wanted to ensure that it would not be rejected immediately in the first vote with the excuse of the labour law, so we drafted there that it would enter into force in the next State budget. However, we agree with the PSD's arguments that the proposal can enter into force early on, and we call on PS Members to withdraw their appeal as soon as possible. We worked together to free the people from this obligation, from the anxiety they have in their lives, and it would certainly be a disappointment for huge people to know today that, instead of this diploma being applied within 30 days or at most in January 2024, after all, they would still have to spend another year and two months with this anxiety, with this problem. We're talking about thousands of families. Any resources we can put into the hands of the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ) to apply this bill sooner would not be too much to relieve all these people from the pressure they suffer. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD Members Alexandre Poço and João Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u484	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u485	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposals which the PS has advocated to the Plenary are included in the set of timely amendments resulting from this legislative review process — plus a review — to Law No 25 / 2006 on the payment of tolls, fines and fees that are applied. We are already in the ninth amendment to the law and continue to insist on the aberration of having the Tax and Customs Authority to move recovery and enforcement processes, acting as a weak collector, at the service of private PPP dealers (public-private partnerships) road. Of course, we are not against the time-consuming or simplification measures. The problem is that, with this law, we are moving from a scandalous injustice to a slightly less scandalous injustice, and the underlying issues remain unresolved. The CFP has put forward proposals, in particular, to do what is necessary, which is to put an end to this injustice and remove the Tax and Customs Authority from these proceedings. The PS voted against and the PSD abstained. It is another missed opportunity, but we want to tell the people and citizens affected by this aberration that the struggle continues and that they can continue to count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u486	The floor is now Mr Rui Afonso, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u487	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither honest nor fair that it is so easy to pass a toll and so difficult to pay it, being subject to heavy tax penalties. It is therefore imperative that we move quickly with the law which provides for the reduction of the value of the fines applicable for counter-orders related to the transgressions where it is due to the payment of toll rates. The entry into force of this law with the State Budget following its publication, under the terms proposed by the Socialist Party, will have an effect, as regards us, perversely on those who already have a clear difficulty in liquidating toll rates, resulting in an abnormal acceleration of the tax enforcement processes, with a clear intention to provide the maximum revenue collection by 1 July 2024, when the law will produce effects, which may result in harmful social consequences and administrative chaos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u488	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u489	in this matter, we will accompany the PSD, since we consider there is no legal impediment to the entry into force of the law 30 days after its publication, given that this is a direct revenue of the dealers, who subsequently pay compensation to the Tax and Customs Authority for the collection service it provides. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u490	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real from the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u491	Mr President, the NAP follows the proposal that the Liberal Initiative brings us to reduce the value of fines applied in road fines. It makes no sense to us this injustice and distortion that exists today. According to the PSD proposal, it seems more than reasonable to us that the law will come into force in the near future and not as the PS intends next year. But there are, in fact, two injustices whose resolution has been on the way. On the one hand, there is the question of using the AT's muscle machine to charge these counter-orders. It does not make any sense for a citizen to have to resort to the common courts, often until it is against the state, but then it is the State to benefit the concessionaires already benefited by the road PPPs — that would be another debate! — in order to be legally collecting these debts from individuals. On the other hand, there was the Socialist Party's rejection of the NAP's proposal regarding the elimination of fines for the non-renewal of the driving licence six months earlier. It seems to us that the regime that is currently in force is obviously excessive and we hope that this review cycle of this diploma will not be closed now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u492	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u493	Mr President, it is not only unusually unfair, as it is almost in the field of absurdity, to which we have to explain, that in Portugal there are people virtually going to bankruptcy because of this issue of fines, fines, the use of SCUTS, when, still above, or by ignorance, or because they do not have the right device, it is so easy to incur these fines and fines. Even more absurd is that it is the Tax and Customs Authority to charge. I am glad that there was agreement between the various political groups and the initiative of several parties represented in this House, which I welcome, for at least part of this injustice we will begin to undo. I hope that we can go all the way to the end, for the benefit of the people who suffer, with this, a very great damage in their lives, often because of an incuria, a human negligence and perfectly unpleasant, in many cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u494	We shall then proceed to the specialization vote. First, we voted on the proposal for an amendment to Article 7 ( 4 ). the Law No 25 / 2006, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the CH and the CFP.]] It is as follows: « Article 7. o [...] 4 - If the infringements provided for in this Act are carried out by the same agent in the same month through the use of the same vehicle and in the same road infrastructure, the maximum value of the fine shall be the same as that of a single counter-ordination, the minimum value referred to in paragraph 1 corresponding to the total of the toll rates may not be charged in excess of the costs corresponding to a single counter-ordination. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u495	We then vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 15 ( 1 ). the same law as Article 2. that of the final text. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and with abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] It is as follows: « Article 15. the competence for the process 1 - The financial services of the tax office of the counter-coordination officer shall be responsible for the establishment and instruction of the counter-coordination procedures referred to in this law and for the application of the respective fines. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u496	We shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD, as amended by Article 5. the draft Law No 427 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), as referred to in Article 4. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] It was as follows: « Article 5. the entry into force This law shall enter into force thirty days after its publication. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u497	We now vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 4 ( PS ). that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL and BE and abstentions from the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] It is as follows: « Article 4. the entry into force and production of effects This law shall enter into force on 1 July 2024. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u498	We then move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on Bill No. 427 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Change the value of the fines applicable for counter-orders related to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ( the ninth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the sanction scheme applicable to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We shall now vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Secretary Maria of the Rosinha Light to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u499	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Jorge Manuel de Valsassina Galveias Rodrigues to present, as a witness, in the framework of the reference cars — Case 403 / 10.2TBTMR-A — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Santarém — Central Court Cable de Santarém — Judge 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u500	Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] For a formal record, in the case of the two draft resolutions on the Journal of News file as one was approved and the other was rejected, which was approved does not need to go to 12. the Commission shall be approved in the final version. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u501	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I note that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the Proposal for a Law No 77 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission and the Proposal for a Resolution No 12 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. Bill Nos 739 / XV / 1 were also admitted. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 740 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and 741 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 9. the Commission, 742 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 743 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 746 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 747 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 749 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 755 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 756 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-05.u502	We are thus at the end of our agenda. The next plenary session is on Wednesday, May 10, consisting of the first point in the assessment of the Bill No 73 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Options for 2023 - 2026. In the second point, we will generally have the discussion of Law Projects No. 684 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Return of funds from the Car Guarantee Fund ( FGA ) in order to reduce the price of car insurance premiums ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 291/2007 of 21 August 2007 ) and 751 / XV/1. a (PAN) — provides for the guarantee by the Car Guarantee Fund for the repair of damage and reimbursement of expenditure as a result of animal crash. of the third point is the discussion of Petition No 56 / XV / 1. a ( HUMANITAS - Portuguese Federation for Mental Deficiencies ) — Creation of the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities, together with the Bills Nos 713 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Increases funding of support products for people with disabilities or temporary disabilities, 752 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures in good time access to prostheses and orthopedics and other orthopedic material that is necessary to prevent the dependence, precariousness, isolation and social exclusion of the military disabled, and 754 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the legal regime for access to the old-age pension of persons with disabilities equal to or greater than 60 %, and also with Resolution Projects Nos 529 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrate on May 10 as the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities, 553 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Institution of the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities, 578 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrate on May 10 as the national day of the person with intellectual disabilities, and 634 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends strengthening special education training throughout the course of teaching. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only asking for one minute. Apparently, I'll-I'll-I'll-I'm wrong, I'm sorry. Of course, I have invited the President of the Parliament of Ukraine to be here and not the President of Ukraine because I invite Presidents of Parliament. The mistake remains healed. Good afternoon to all. The session is over. [[It was 13 hours and 59 minutes.]]
