ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. We have no record to read, so we can go directly into the agenda, the first of which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 45 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of law published under the pandemic of covid-19 disease and Bills No 240 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease of covid-19, 598 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Consecrates the transmission and dissemination of meetings and public meetings of local authorities, amending Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, 608 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March repealing the exceptional and transitional procedural regime justified by the pandemic, 620 / XV / 1. a (L) — Maintains the transitional regime for issuing multi-purpose medical certificate of disability for cancer patients and prolongs the validity of multi-purpose medical certificates for disabled people until delays in medical joints are recovered, 621 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Consider the holding of meetings of bodies of local authorities and inter-municipal entities by means of distance communication and 622 / XV / 1. a (L) — establishes an extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines, rates and emoluments in public higher education institutions due to the economic and social crisis caused by inflation. To submit Law No 45 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), the floor is Mr. State Secretary of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, André Moz Caldas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Proposal for a Law No 45 / XV / 1. the revocation of several diplomas approved during the covid-19 pandemic. This bill finds parallel in the Revoga + project. Let me make some initial considerations about this project. Revoga + is an initiative, framed in the Simplex programme, which has been developed since the XXI Constitutional Government, with the great objective of contributing to the clarification of our legal order. There are several old diplomas which are already outdated or obsolete, but which have never been expressly revoked, having some of them expired and others tacitly revoked, and some still remain in force, without prejudice to their purpose having already disappeared. In short, it is intended to provide the interpreter with application, i.e. to all citizens and citizens, a profound and solid clarification of what is still and is no longer in force, thus ensuring greater and stronger security and legal certainty for both citizens and businesses. It should be borne in mind that, in addition to these gains of legal certainty and security, there is still a gain of strategic competitiveness for the country, because Revoga + allows to eliminate some bureaucratic barriers provided for in legislation when its purpose of protection for the public interest has already disappeared, thus offering a reduction in the costs of context affecting companies. Seeking to fulfil this wish, since the start of the Revoga + project, more than 4400 diplomas have been revoked, currently being under preparation of the fourth phase of the project, which will cover the period of approval of diplomas between 1992 and 1996. Whereas some of these diplomas relate to matters which include the absolute or relative reservation of competence of the Assembly of the Republic, the Government provides that the latter may enter a bill here in the second half of 2023. The fight against the pandemic of the diseasecovid-19 involved, as it is known, the adoption of a necessarily significant and intense number of diplomas, in particular laws of the Assembly of the Republic, government decrees and resolutions of the Council of Ministers. These diplomas enabled the State, at a time of intense collaboration between all sovereignty bodies, to adopt measures with a view to mitigating the pandemic and its social and economic effects. These measures were intended to take effect for a limited period of time, depending on the development of the epidemiological situation, but also on the social and economic impact. Beyond the most complex phase of the pandemic, and having been able to mitigate many of the adverse impacts caused by the pandemic, as soon as it was determined not to extend the warning situation in the mainland, the Government decided, in the Council of Ministers, to revoke almost all of the legal framework created to respond to the pandemic. Thus, Decree-Law No. 66 -A / 2022 of 30 September and Resolution of the Council of Ministers No. 96 / 2022 of 24 October as well as this bill were approved. In essence, what chaired the existence of three diplomas, let us say, 'Revoga + covid' was the form of the diplomas to be revoked: the decrees were repealed by Decree-Law No 66 -A / 2022, the resolutions of the Council of Ministers were repealed by Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 96 / 2022 and, with this proposal of law, a substantial number of various laws adopted by the Assembly of the Republic in the context of the pandemic. It is proposed that measures to combat the health pandemic should be repealed, as well as social and economic support measures for families and businesses that were then determined. It should be noted, however, that the government is open to taking advantage of what has been shown to be advantageous. In fact, since the pandemic was a terrible and traumatic event for all and for all, it ended up bringing some solutions that proved to be advantageous for citizens, businesses and the Public Administration, and as such, rather than their revocation, it has sought to ensure its stable incorporation into the legal system. In fulfilling this objective, the proposal does not cover measures which are deemed to be still to be in force or to be incorporated into the agenda, such as the possibility of participation by telematics in meetings of colleges and public evidence provided for in Article 5. the Law No 1 -A / 2020, which the Government intends to finalize in the planned reform of the legislation applicable to the granting of securities and degrees. In addition, this House of Democracy will have the opportunity to enrich this proposal in the field of specialty, in particular, if it so understands, by identifying other rules which may be the subject of revocation or, on the contrary, by incorporating definitely those which constitute an added value for Portuguese and Portuguese. The Government is ready to contribute to this work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u3	The Secretary of State has two requests for clarification, to which he will answer together. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the members of the Government here present. Mr Secretary of State, if it is true that much of these measures have already fulfilled their role in relation to the challenges that the Covid-19 has brought us — as is the case, for example, with the protection of the most vulnerable people — there are others who remain in force and with whose maintenance we agree. For example, I am talking about the issue of multi-purpose medical certificates of disability for cancer patients, taking into account the delays that are still felt and the criticisms made by the Ombudsman, in which the regime should be applied until this situation is overcome. Therefore, in this dimension, we agree with this proposal. However, there are other measures whose effects continue to make them feel. I am talking about the housing crisis and the difficulty families continue to feel, even though we are no longer in the pandemic, to pay for housing. in this sense, the NAP has introduced a proposal that aims to create, once again, an exceptional regime for the suspension of the execution of the household. In fact, in view of the whole context of the pandemic and the war, it seems to us that, despite the diploma that is discussed today on the changes that put an end to these proposals, as the Secretary of State pointed out, it is important to identify what is still relevant to the population that is still in force, because there are still people who cannot pay neither the income of the house nor the tips of the school nor the essential goods. I wonder if they are available to monitor and study the possibility of this same measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u5	The second request for clarification belongs to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question about three aspects. In view of the references you made in your speech, when you said that there were measures which the Government considered would make sense to maintain and incorporate into the legal system, I would like to ask you why there are three measures that propose to repeal, and which did not deserve the same consideration by the Government. These three measures are the free line of SNS 24 — which during this exceptional period was free of charge, and I ask why the Government does not consider that this should be maintained — the question of the simplified procedure for issuing certificates of disability for cancer patients and the issue of the protection of the household. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u7	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State André Moz Caldas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mrs Paula Santos, the characteristics of the legal orderingcovid do not only relate to the content of the legislative determinations that the Government or this House have approved, they also have to do with the way and how they have been adopted, in view of the short period of legal solutions, in a context of strong pressure for the whole Portuguese society and also for the sovereignty agencies. This means that some legal regimes, even if they deserve more permanent adoption, also deserve a more mature legislative process to correct any errors and shortcomings in the formulations adopted in the meantime. The availability of the Government to work in these solutions is total, which does not mean that they should be maintained as exceptional and temporary standards, in the context of legislation which is necessarily exceeded, and should, rather, have the legislative procedures for its adoption, if it is to be consolidated in the Portuguese legal system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u9	To submit Bill No 240 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we look at legislative initiatives aimed at revoking the exceptional and temporary measures implemented during the period of the covid-19 pandemic, measures adopted in this Parliament and motivated by absolutely exceptional time, but which, of course, resulted in enormous delays in judicial proceedings. But if the 13th of March 2020 cannot fail to remain in our memory and could justify such exceptional measures and such delays, nothing even justifies the delay, inertia, neglect and omission of the Minister of Justice in relation to the affairs of the Ministry of Justice. The delays in the judicial proceedings that were caused by the pandemiccovid-19 until we can see it, but the delay in solving the other problems of the justice sector has no justification for a government that has been ruling for seven consecutive years and, more than one year, with an absolute majority. I am referring, for example, to the judicial officers. We have freezing promotions and a human resource deficit of about 1000 professionals, to whom everything is required, and a Minister who is late in response and still blames them for delays in the proceedings, as you have said, days ago, at the XII Congress of the Portuguese Judges. We are late in the promised reform of the administrative and fiscal courts, whose proceedings are prolonged over time, making their decisions totally ineffective and unjust — a decision whose temporary distance from the facts is 10, 20 or 30 years is all less fair. [[PSD applause.]] We're almost two years late, sir. Members, in the regulation of electronic distribution of proceedings. We have a Minister of Justice who always arrives late, or does not arrive, as has happened with the lack of response to the numerous problems that exist in the record and notarial sector, a central sector of preventive justice and the legal security of the lives of people, businesses and the economy, and where the Minister does not even listen to the appeals and warnings of the Ombudsman. We are also late in the government bill we are discussing today. Once again, the Socialist Party government has driven the PSD tow. This has already been the case with the social emergency plan, it has already been with the measures for housing and it was also with the initiative to repeal the standards created in an exceptional period, which was the pandemic period. from the state of calamity to the state of contingency, and from the state of alert, the government was relieving the measures decreed, but the rules on the functioning of the courts were forgotten. The PSD was the first to present, in July 2022 — almost one year ago — the bill that aims to end the exceptions then created for: the period of submission of the debtor to insolvency; the acts to be carried out in the executive and insolvency proceedings; the deadlines for prescription and expiry. While the Socialist Party's Government left in force an exceptional and transitional regime totally distorted and unjustified, the PSD recalled, with this bill, the need to revoke such a regime. We regret that only four months have passed is that the Government has submitted its bill, which also proposes — but not only — the repeal of the same rules. The government's delay leads to the accumulation of judicial expectations, unnecessary resources and decisions of the courts themselves, which, with the independence it imposes, do not fail to tell the Government that action is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has remembered, had the initiative and, with the same commitment, will work, in the specialty, to urgently restore normality in the functioning of the courts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u11	To submit Bill No. 598 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the IL Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: At a time of limitations, restrictions and even contempt for rights, freedoms and guarantees, as were the years of the pandemic, we must recognize that there were honourable exceptions to this rule. The online transmission, recording and dissemination of the sessions and public meetings of local authorities bodies was one of these exceptions and brought a very positive change of paradigm. The confinement periods have shown that the use of technology allows people to communicate and work together, regardless of where they are located, and saves time and money by eliminating displacement needs. In the authorities, maintaining this good practice has marked gains for local democracy, promotes scrutiny and transparency, but, above all, makes information more accessible to all and enables citizens to become more involved in local politics. It's just, sirs. Members, it is not enough to be local, power has to be close to people, and to enshrine this proximity in law clarify arbitrary interpretations and prevents the lack of good sense of some from overlaping with the right of citizens to information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u14	Mrs. Members, more democracy, more transparency and a greater fight against abstention, through closer proximity to the citizens, are the main objectives of the proposal that we bring to this debate, which represents a step forward in the consecration of rights gained and which cannot now be withdrawn. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u15	To submit Bill No. 608 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), I give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Three years ago, in March 2020, when DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) was in denial, and the government did not want to control the borders in health, two of the first cases of curfew-19 in Portugal were confirmed, two men who had been abroad and were hospitalized in port.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u17	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u18	As is typical of the PS government, the first approach is always denial, then they move on to the compressor phase. from the total denial we passed directly to the restrictions by which no one expected to pass, with the impositions of the successively renewed states of emergency or alert, to our freedom to stop the country and isolate people. Today, three years later, we see late revoking legislation in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, through the cessation of the validity of laws already expired, anachronistic or exceeded by the evolution of the pandemic. 51 of the 57 covered laws are later repealed. From the outside there was only the revocation of the use of mask in some health sites, which makes us ask: how many more years will it take to fall these standards? When will free will and freedom of choice be returned to populations? Three years later, it does not make sense, for example, that in the courts, if you continue to limit the maximum number of people in the hearings or impose the obligation to hold hearings at a distance. Also with regard to the suspension of deadlines for executive proceedings, this prevents the fulfilment of creditors'rights three years ago, legitimate but non-reimbursed rights since the beginning of 2020. Today, the act of the Government also has a symbolic scope, which is finally to mark the end of a period of some legislative disintegration, which has caused general confusion in the courts. Here we call for a hearing, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the opinion of the Advocates'Order on this Government Bill, which even uses the term 'legislative chaos' to describe what happened during the pandemic period. In fact, it says that « legislative chaos» is not yet fully healed, insofar as it is excluded from the repeal « the production of effects in the future of events occurring during the period of validity of their legislative acts ». It means that, sirs. Members, Mr President, who, "in the future, there will certainly be questions to be answered about the time when legislation was in force" which is now repealed. The Government of the Socialist Party is also fully responsible for the measures to which the Constitutional Court imposed the lip service of unconstitutionality—yes, unconstitutional measures, as they violate the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the Portuguese citizens. On this, the government blows aside, but here we are not to forget the incompetence and desire for totalitarian healthism of those who rule us. The Constitutional Court added 23 declarations of unconstitutionality of measures taken during the pandemic, with particular emphasis on restrictions on rights, freedoms and guarantees. Only with regard to the procedure for the judicial validation of mandatory quarantine or prophylactic isolation do we have five judgments declaring the unconstitutionality of their standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u20	A real national shame! Where is the freedom of April? Freedom got engrossed with the Chinese socialist virus, an ideological virus of much greater morbidity... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that the dreaded coronary virus of severe acute respiratory syndrome 2, SARS-CoV-2 for friends. Therefore, the initiative brought here today has resolved real injustices related to the suspension of the acts of delivery of the leased place when the tenant is missing. The situation is so dramatic and so dramatic that we have even heard on television a well-known lawyer report the real situation in which an elderly lady is hospitalized in a home, whose source of income was the income she received from a single apartment. The problem is that he no longer received income in 2020. Now at the mercy of Article 6. o-E, according to the said lawyer, neither receives the rent nor removes the tenant from there in order to be able to rent again, and thus pay their expenses at home. That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to restore justice in this country! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u21	To present Lein.o 620 Projects, 621 and 622 / XV / 1. a ( L), I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u22	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Dear colleagues. Sometimes it is good to start by recognizing the obvious: it is good news that, three years after the onset of the pandemic, we are here discussing the repeal of some measures which, also recognizing the obvious, were necessary in the context in which we were. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] While still recognizing the obvious, sometimes those who have a huge problem with being called extreme-right—or anything else of the genre—have a huge ease in calling totalitarianism to everything, even the things we had to do to ensure that some of our weaker fellow citizens did not die.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u23	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u24	You want to talk about mortality? Let's talk about mortality, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u25	What about vaccination? Don't talk about it! What about the pharmaceuticals? Don't talk about it either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u26	We also learned a lot about those three-year-old days, which at that time seemed never to end again. We learn that it is possible to organize some things of our collective life in another way. For example, there are local democracy bodies that work best if they are on-line and allow distance meetings. It is more transparent for citizens and allows more participation. Therefore, one of the initiatives which the Free will brings here changes the legal regime of local authorities to concentrate the possibility of bodies meeting in the form of digital communication. But we learned more: if, during the pandemic, we said that it was necessary to fight it as if it were a war, at the moment when there is a war in Europe and an unexpected inflation situation, there are difficulties because people are going through what needs to be paid attention. Therefore, the Free move forward with a measure establishing an extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines, fees and emoluments in public higher education institutions. Finally, there are still effects of the pandemic on many of the things that we need to do every day to make our National Health Service and our common work regime work. It is necessary to maintain a transitional regime for the issue of multi-use medical certificates because the delays that had already been made are even greater. However, the Book considers it essential to maintain this transitional regime, particularly for cancer patients, until the recovery of the delays that we are still living is verified as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. We therefore welcome this debate and believe that these measures will enrich the decisions that we can finally make in the post-pandamy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u27	Having presented the initiatives under discussion, we are moving to the stage of the intervention in the debate itself, with the primacy of Mrs Paula Santos, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u28	Mr President, on the initiative that the Government brings to the debate, I would like to raise three questions, up to the question we asked the Secretary of State, whose answer sought to find a subterfuge so that we do not actually consider a set of issues that are important for them to remain. What are these three aspects that I would like to raise, now in more detail? It is true that the exceptional measures taken in the context of covid had a very specific context. Today, reality is different with regard to pandemics. But we have a social reality in our country that actually requires a look at a set of measures that are important to protect tenants. I am, of course, talking about the extent to which it relates to the suspension of the clearance, the protection of the tenants and the protection of the home of the family. The difficulties we face today, in high inflation, of the speculative increase in prices and the loss of the purchasing power of wages and pensions, must also demand from the Government an intervention and a look, but not the way it is being put here, which does not respond to this problem. Another issue concerns the issue of certificates of disability. The problem is not solved, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, it is far from being resolved. There are patients who have been waiting for a year, or two years, for the marking of a medical unit and still have no indication of a date. This has concrete implications in the lives of these people, who lose access to a set of rights that the law provides. The truth is that people end up being penalized for something that is not their responsibility, but for the responsibility of the government, because they are not assured of what is foreseen under the legislation. And yes, it makes sense to maintain the special procedure, which, being true that it is addressed to cancer patients, should be even more extended to other patients, considering the situation that we live in our country. The third question I would like to mention concerns the free line SNS 24. I do not understand what maturity is, which Mr. Secretary of State referred to in his speech, which the free line SNS 24 requires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u30	Even more in a context where it is systematically recommended — and we are not questioning this recommendation in any way — to the users who, before going to a health unit, call the SNS 24 line to be accompanied and supported. Are you going to charge? Is that it? This means an increased cost for users and for people with illness. Will the government or won't safeguard the free line SNS 24? This is not just a matter, which I believe is important that it is assured and maintained. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u31	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative we are discussing today allows us, in fact, to partially close the chapter of exceptionality in the creation of legislation to respond to the emergencies caused by the pandemic. In fact, many of us will still remember these parliamentary days in which the permanent functioning of the Assembly institution of the Republic was ensured and at no time was in question the possibility of legislating, and of legislating with urgency, thus eliminating the normal deadlines of legislative activity, because the urgency of the moment dictated it. But at no time this House has ceased to fulfil its responsibilities and correct its hand whenever necessary. Indeed, the complexity of much of what we are discussing today results from the fact that it has been necessary, several times, to fine-tune, to improve, to collect contributions from all parliamentary groups. In particular, this Law No. 1 -A / 2020 has been the result of, in two or three times here being reviewed, a broad consensus and a construction of solutions in which the experience and hearing of the professionals in their sectors have, in fact, made us a better legislative act than initially proposed and more tailored to these needs. This is the debate we are discussing, Mr Pedro Frazão. We are not discussing the case-law of the Constitutional Court on matters under discussion today. of the various processes in relation to which there was constitutional litigation, in total, we had a number less than 30 that went up to the Constitutional Court and even a smaller number in which there was identification of unconstitutionality. And many of them were situations in which there were decisions, it should be pointed out that it was not even from the authorities of the Republic, in many cases only decisions of general direction or regional direction, and in which what happened was a lack of competence to intervene and restrict fundamental rights. There seems to be a negationist drive that came to the top, in the context of this debate, and that is exhilarating the parliamentary bench on this side. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u33	You're negationists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u34	But what we discussed here went through the crisis of constitutionality at various times, despite its exceptionality, despite the urgency, despite the need for revisitation and that is what we wanted to point out in the first place. Secondly, obviously looking at the set of materials we have here, we must proceed with a screening. Many of the extraordinary legislation has been the subject of a derogation — those adopted by decrees and some, too, which contained legislative acts within the competence of this House — and others, even in some way, have become final. I will go there in more detail about the online transmission of meetings of local authorities' bodies, but the possibility of holding meetings at a distance was incorporated, as a general rule, in the revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure and, therefore, was a teaching of the pandemic that has already been introduced for the functioning of the legal order. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not report on your transmission, but on the possibility of holding meetings at a distance, when any of the members cannot be present. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Mr President, do not worry, we will follow the initiative because it is valuable and it is another of those aspects that seems to us to go through the screening of what must remain. But, in addition to this screening, definitely, for the future, we are still meeting — and this has already been mentioned during the debate — some subjects which, in a transitional way, must remain in force. One of which has already been mentioned, and there is all our willingness to make, as the Secretary of State pointed out, the debate on the subject of multi-purpose medical certificates. Indeed, until the legislative process that replaces them has been completed, it is important that a bridge be maintained between regimes and how to safeguard the situation of these people is, in transitoryly, to continue to have this regime in force and that, in the debate in the field of specialty, will also be very easy to achieve. As I said earlier, the issue of the online transmission of assemblies or meetings of municipal chambers is indeed complex, but for which we are, I would say, almost unanimously, in accordance with the principle, i.e. an additional mechanism of democracy, is an additional mechanism for access to information by citizens. What we think is that we need to improve some of the editorials because there are several themes that are mixed under the same hat. One question is whether a meeting can be held remotely, when there is a need, or whether a member can intervene remotely when, for some reason, it is prevented from doing so at present. This is a subject and I think that the answer will be tendingly positive. Then we need to know whether there should be a transmission requirement, something that many authorities do voluntarily, but which, in fact, should not become mandatory. Today, I think we all recognize it, it is very difficult to find circumstances where it is impossible to gather the technical means, at least in the municipality, in order to do so. We can discuss whether, in fact, every parish will be in a position to do so, but, as regards municipalities, there is a fairly broad consensus that technologically it is very easy, through a social network and a chamber mounted in the session room, to make this transmission. However, what we have to check is whether this means that you also have to keep the recording on the site indefinitely, since it has already been transmitted. These two themes are not necessarily both worthy of the same conclusion, but this is a detail for us to deal with in the specialty. Both the proposal of the Liberal Initiative and the Free Initiative deserve, from this perspective, acceptance and construction of a balanced solution that effectively improves the scrutiny, transparency and proximity of citizens who often cannot move to intervene and can thus find an additional mechanism to achieve that same objective. Finally, one final note just to conclude, Mrs Márcia Passos, the PSD today found that she had a political statement on justice. That's what the honourable Member has been doing. It did not actually refer to what is on the table and to the discussion of this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u35	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u36	And now, I haven't asked you the question recently, but I leave the question to the air, although I may not have an answer: the PSD has already given an initiative on this subject for a long time, but nothing has prevented the PSD from scheduling this discussion. The government, who brought the debate on this issue in full and on all matters, was the Government of the Republic and the PSD dragged its initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I don't think it's essential we'll be seeing who crossed the goal first, but in fact, who started running first, in this case, scheduling this issue, was the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u37	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Covid-19 pandemic has already passed, fortunately, and does not miss, but there are changes in our organization, in our forms of work that we cannot devalue. Some have come to stay, such as distance work which is a much more recurrent mode than it was in the past. The opening up of public services to distant contacts is better today than it was in the past—and still well, because moving in person to a public service is often a huge sacrifice for citizens, not only by distance, but by difficulties of access to public administration. However, there are concrete issues that need to be partially identified to ensure that, in these changes, the positive things that have happened are not taken and laid down either. First, should people's access, freer, detached, to municipal bodies, national bodies, to public administration be maintained or not maintained? Our answer is that it must be maintained. Should non-presenceal meetings of public administration bodies be permitted or not permitted? It should be allowed, but it should not be the rule. This is our position, because nothing replaces the presence contact, but also, in fact, nothing obliges it to be a dogma on the table, as the alternative seems to want to put. from our point of view, these improvements are positive, they must remain. Exceptionalities created by lack of response from public services to ensure the rights that people had and should maintain — in the case of multi-purpose certificates — are not yet corrected. Examples have already been given that the State is still delaying in responding to multi-use attestations. Their renewal and delays go on the scale of years and it is the right of the people who may be involved. Should an exceptional regime be created to give more time for the State to continue to serve people and not to alienate people from their rights? You must. And from this point of view, openness to discussion in the field of expertise makes sense and we will also participate in this debate. A question that should be answered in this debate is linked to the free line SNS 24. This is because what changed was not only access to the SNS 24 line for general health doubts, it was the State to consider, and well, that this line is a first screening for all health cases—not only for covid-19, not only for a specific pathology, but for all. Now, having ended the moderate rates, it doesn't make sense now to create an indirect moderate rate. The question is: what will the government do about it? It's good to have the SNS 24 line! It is positive, since it responds to people, because it is a first, simple access to some health response. It is good because it dishonors other institutions, particularly hospital emergencies, but not only health centres. If the Government and the Minister of Health say they want to promote telemedicine consultations and distance medicine, etc. , and if, on the one hand, they promote the relationship at a distance, but on the other, they create difficulties where they do not exist at the moment, the question is whether it makes sense. I hope that the Secretary of State can tell us, by serenelying the souls, that, in fact, something that is positive will not be thrown with bath water at the end of this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u39	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, addressed by the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I asked to bring back the « liberal minute» to the Chamber, because today is a happy day. It's a happy day for the Liberal Initiative, it's a happy day, I hope, for all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who are seeing and listening to us at home, because they have symbolically ended the restrictions on our freedoms, decreed at the time of the pandemic. [[Applause from the IL.]] It's symbolic, I know, not all have been revoked, but it's a happy day, too, because 51 laws are repealed. For those who, like us, think that there are more laws, more State intervention, is a small principle. The Revogar More programme, Mr Secretary of State for us, should be called « Revogar More », because if you only revoked 4000 diplomas, there must be about 40 000 to revoke. And the laws which are repealed, many of them, in fact represented restrictions on the freedoms of economic entities, in schools, on the use of masks — which has not yet been completed — but also on economic freedom and free relations in the markets, namely credit markets, leases, in the various moratoriums that still persisted and in the budgetary processes and limits of indebtedness of the authorities. So this is a late, but happy day at the end of these restrictions. But I asked for this minute to alert you to something else: that the restrictions that these revocations make out of the window today are restrictions that may again enter through the door of the constitutional review.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u42	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u43	When the PS and PSD want to reintroduce into our constitutional text the possibility of confinement, without involvement of the Assembly of the Republic — the Assembly of the Republic which Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, a few minutes ago, praised its operation —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u44	It's the opposite. It is precisely to avoid confinement. It's exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u45	... when the PS and PSD want to make possible, for the first time, that secret services use metadata, without the safeguards of the criminal trial, we are restricting individual freedoms of people. And our Article 288. the, relating to the material limits of the review, in its subparagraph ( d ), states that citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees should be respected. We're not doing it! The Liberal Initiative will not allow the constitutional review to be unconstitutional and will not allow the restrictions currently being repealed to enter again through this review. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u46	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I asked for the floor to clarify it - perhaps you were not very attentive when I used the word - because, in fact, who brought the constitutional rules to the dance was not Pedro Frazão. It was the opinion of the Advocates' Order that issued these same considerations on this proposal for a government law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u48	They don't have to do with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u49	So it was not Pedro Frazão, Member of the Czech Republic. And on the negationist push, Mr. Deputies, have decorum. We had a debate yesterday with Mr. Prime Minister in which the whole government denied the problems that exist in the SNS (National Health Service), with people dying in emergencies, the huge waiting lists and the lack of relief, and the negationist am I? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u50	What does that have to do with this issue?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u51	That's negationism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u52	Did Mr. Prime Minister deny the problem of housing and the enormous ignorance that was used in the development of PowerPoint on housing and populist, the negationist, I am? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u53	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u54	Did Mr. Prime Minister deny the defence problems and the negationist I am? Oh, my God! Have you denied the problems of agriculture and the demonstrations made by farmers and the negationist? Oh, my God! Have you denied the problems with the security forces, the lack of appreciation of the police and the negationist? He continues to deny the problems of the courts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u55	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u56	... continues to deny that Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, said that the reduction of VAT (value added tax) would not bring consequences on food decline but, yesterday after all, did Mr. Prime Minister announce the reduction of VAT on food? Oh, my God! Mr President, be decorated, the negationists, in Portugal, are in the government and are on your bench! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u57	The negationists are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u58	There is no further request for a word, to close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, André Moz Caldas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Márcia Passos, allow me a slight precision: the government is not going to the PSD tow, as it has already been mentioned, is the PSD initiative that is dragged by the Government's initiative. And that sad life would be that of this tug, because what the PSD here proposes is the revocation of three numbers of an article of a law. In fact, it would be unfortunate if they had to have the 51 laws proposed by the Government here to revoke. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão, I will not waste the short time I have to analyze his inconsistencies: the government first put its head on the sand, then it was attacked by a totalitarian fury of sanitary pendor and finally moves late in the repeal of these laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u60	And that's not what happened? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u61	We have, when much of the time, the proposal of the Arrival, which proposes to revoke an article after the Government has done so. And it is by chance an article that the Government has already proposed to revoke. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is appropriate to tell you, Mr President : 'a lot of raisins and little grapes'. As far as the matter is concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u62	And what's the article? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u63	It is Article 6. o-E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. I have no doubt about what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I reiterate the Government's willingness to cooperate, during the special session, in everything necessary to improve this bill, whether from a political point of view or from a technical point of view. Keep that availability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u64	We thus conclude the first item on our agenda. We resign from the Government and attack the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No 512 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes, which drags the Bills No. 386 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the statutes of the House of Douro and 612 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the House of the Douro as a public association. We give a few seconds for the House's recomposition and, however, Mr.Agostinho Santa may begin to approach the pulpit to begin the presentation of the Bill 512 / XV / 1. a ( PS ). [[Pause.]] Just wait a few seconds, so the people standing can sit down. [[Pause.]] All right, we're already in the spirit to hear Mr. Agostinho Santa from the PS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Greetings, excited, the Durians who come to us in the galleries and those who, at a distance, follow us. I express the joy of presenting this bill of restoration of the House of Douro as an association of public law. I know that my joy coincides with what those who live, work and suffer in the vineyard country. This legislative initiative has not solved all the problems of the Demarcado douro region, nor of the wine growers. Despite the intentions, the provision of support, the efforts, the struggle for survival in a land of contradictions and perplexities, of great potential, but many difficulties and imbalances, the crisis in the Douro region remains real. Regenerating intervention by public authorities and the involvement of the various strata of the community is necessary. The Douro deserves a combination of wills and sublimation of efforts. The House of Douro does not solve everything, but it is a condition of facilitating the life of the winegrowers. It is necessary to recover it in its status of dignity, symbolism and uplifting, so that it can have concrete repercussions on the daily lives of men and women who weigh up the schist and caress the strains so that it can emerge from them. It is imperative that its action be associated with the magnificence of a living monument, Heritage of Humanity, in the certainty that the survival of small and medium-sized vine growers and vine workers is crucial for the region to preserve the magnificence of the landscape, but above all a way of being and living, with an ancestral slab of people who deserve dignity, respect and effective support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is vital that the House of Douro return to a matrix of representation of all producers in this demarcated region, interpreting and defending its specific interests. Faced with the increasingly notorious imbalance, having as comparison the power of trade, only one voice, cohesive and strong and anchored in public intervention capacity can mitigate the effects of an unequal relationship of organization and power, under the lowest penalty, exhausted in its resistance being prevented from defending its basic rights. Since the Assembly of the Republic, in 2019, made a legislative course in response to this reality, it is now the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to take advantage of the dynamics that were then created, materialized in the adoption of a law, through a joint work of various parliamentary groups and contributions from the Intermunicipal Douro Community. Identifyed the strict terms of the declaration of unconstitutionality of this law, the essential work now done was to change the rules so declared. Above all, following the lesson of the Constitutional Court, it was careful to provide effective public powers to the House of Douro in restoration, so that it can fulfil the plan of interpretation and of enhanced pursuit of the interests of the region and its wine growers. These are, therefore, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the bill we present to you, counting that, in this case, other parliamentary groups can join us, not failing the appeal that the Douro, crying, makes whoever wants to defend it and love it. I beg your pardon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the audacity to want to end with emotion, yet another form of politics, with a poem in which, taking advantage of the mythical figure of the man of the baskets, I celebrate the women and men who built and built the Douro, for our dazzling, the power of pain, sweat and love: "Oop! Go shopping! / And the anticipated must runs / by the water of the neck contracted/ bloated with honey and brandish. - Bye! / Shake your back/ lips not only that a man/ instead of yelling smile/ like that sixty kilograms in your back/ would be delightful pleasure/ and pure balsam burning sweat. - Bye! / Range the legs/thresholds eternal martyrdom. / The smile continues to be sculpted on the face/ and one that another shout of suspicious joy / deaf cry of anger and pain. - Bye! Come basket/ which I have waiting for/ the same mask of scratched pleasure/ to offer to the god that in the olympus/ well knows the tone and the color of my smile. - Bye! / His blessings god of imposure/ I will sleep all night with the tears/ that all day filled me with salt and bitterness. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u66	To submit Bill No. 386 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The wine production in the Demarcada do Douro region is an absolutely special and unique reality in our country, with few comparisons worldwide. That is why there is a need for special regulation which has existed for more than two centuries. It is to this reality that the draft law that the CFP brings today the debate answers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not all the same. The distinguishing mark of this region is its difference vis-à-vis other wine regions: the difference that makes the High Douro Vinhateiro Heritage of Humanity and which constitutes a great value; the difference that begins in the conditions of production and work and which extends in the relationship between trade and production, particularly unfavourable for this. in this region, where thousands of completely unprotected small wine growers relate to powerful economic groups, it is essential to recognize the need for a special regulation that successive governments have called into question. Today, in this debate, we need to know which side each one is on in this battle. If, like the PCP, they stand on the side of the small and medium-sized wine growers who defend the Douro and build it, or are here to serve the never-satisfied interests of Gaia's exporting houses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u68	It's Latin! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u69	Those who have now agreed on the need to create a private regulatory and supervisory body can only support our proposal, even if they are the same as those who were in the destruction of the House of Douro. We want them to be the winegrowers, those who built the Douro, to be sent to the House of Douro. in this sense, our project defends: the reconstitution of the House of Douro as a heritage of all winegrowers of the region Demarcado do Douro ; that the democratic management of the House of Douro reconstituted be assured by its legitimate owners, on the basis of the rule of one producer, one vote; the allocation of the representation of production in the Interprofessional Council of IVDP ( Institute of Wines Douro and Porto, I.P. ) ; assign to the House of Douro reconstituted all the historical competences justifying the compulsory registration, which are now in IVDP, namely the registration of wine growers of the Demarcado do Douro Region, the registration of the parcels of wine growers of the Demarcado do Douro Region, the annual distribution of the benefit to each producer, the promotion of port wine and wines in the region as well as the maintenance of a historical stock of wines. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems of the Douro are well known and the solutions are also known. We need to defend, once and for all, the producers of the economic and financial wills of the great trade. The fight of the PCP by the Douro and the Durians and, in particular, by all those who, with tremendous difficulty, have built and continue to build the landscape that leaves us amazed and excited — the small and very small winegrowers of the Douro, the rural workers of the Douro, the people suffering from a lot of work — this struggle will not tire us out or tire us out! [[Congrats from the PCP and the P.S. Member of Saint Augustine.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u70	Alvaro Cunhal, 1975!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u71	To submit Bill No. 612 / XV / 1. a ( BE), I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Left Block is intended, together with the PCP and PS, to complete the work which in 2019 was not possible to complete.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u73	Come together!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u74	Restoring the House of Douro, restoring the House of Douro is a noble goal, because we know the history of those people and how, over the decades, those bodies that Mr.Agostinho Santa spoke about recently were usurped from all the wealth for whom he wanted, at his own expense, to make the Douro such river which had been in Liverpool and in London, but which also exported wealth and did not leave it on earth. If there were any doubts, today it is very visible to everyone that this situation has, in its origin, the eternal contradiction between production and distribution. And if we say today that, in fact, there are some who gain nothing and others who have everything left, if those who produce stay so little because distribution gains so much, in the House of Douro this reality is visible. The wealth would not have remained in that region if it had not been, for decades, the House of Douro. It is true: there were some administrations that did not meet their responsibilities. They were not aware of the responsibility they should have before that people and those people. But, in the name of these mistakes, one cannot deny that the defense of the House of Douro is the only way to guarantee a decent production in the Douro area, to guarantee wealth to those people. We know how, in the past, PSD and CDS wanted to destroy the House of Douro, and ultimately deliver the negotiating capacity it represented for the hand producers kissed to a few distributors. This economic elite hit palms, but the Douro people knew how that was a disaster. If, in 2019, we started rebuilding the House of Douro, today we will definitely overcome the restrictions placed by the Constitutional Court and, I believe, this will be possible to be overcome in the course of the speciality debate. This is because we know that those who work the earth cannot be usurped from their wealth. He who created the shocks of the Douro, who gave him body, who took away from him the wine which he named our country out of the world, cannot be usurped from his riches. The Douro is not in Liverpool, in Rio de Janeiro, in those fine cities that drank the wealth produced here, but which also led to the wealth that those people deserved to have access to. In the name of this distribution, today so visible in the contradiction between production and distribution, we recovered the House of Douro, ensuring, with our word, that we will not leave this process, responding to constitutional doubts and assuming justice where it should exist, also in the production of the Port wine. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u75	For an intervention, Mr João Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents itself in this debate with great sense of responsibility for the Demarcado do Douro region, the oldest region in the world and which is proud of all Portuguese. We are aware of its various dimensions: environmental, economic, heritage, social, agricultural and territorial. The Demarcated Douro Region is much more than a wine-producing region, it is a World Heritage Site, which is responsible for all taking care of and preserving. It is in the Douro that is produced one of the most famous wines in the world, the Port wine, a product of the world market, an ex-libris. It is also in the Douro that Douro DOC wines are produced (name of controlled origin), which are considered the best in the world. Today, wine production is already capable of generating a turnover that exceeds EUR 600 million. The Douro, for its beauty, for its heritage, for its people, for its characteristics, for its unique charm, has an unparalleled and inexhaustible potential. If you have everything to be right, what's wrong? What's to be done? Of course, the government's inaction is wrong. There is a need for a Ministry of Agriculture to believe, to invest and help empower this region in the world, to help finance the entities representing the farm. But on the contrary, the Socialist Government, through the Ministry of Finance, sucks, collects and takes the funds of IVDP, a public institute which is self-sustainable and which controls and regulates the market for these wines. It is incomprehensible that annual revenue from production and trade is not at least returned to the sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u77	It's the status!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u78	The House of Douro was set up in the New State to represent the men of the farm. Today, little or nothing has to do with the intention that it was created. The House of Douro should be an important piece of the Douro puzzle, a piece that, when it stirs, does not negatively affect other important pieces. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question is whether the initiatives presented today serve the purpose of the region and the country. Will this format of compulsory registration public entity, with a strong ideological charism of extreme left, which constitutes a compression of the negative freedom of association, which will best serve the national interest, that of the region, the farmers, small producers, cooperatives and also trade? Will there not be a duplication and sharing of IVDP functions involved? [[Protests of PS Members.]] We in the PSD are very concerned because it seems to us that, in a socialist way, they are creating another public body parallel to the IVDP, which will require the payment of new rates and more taxes for taxpayers and, in particular, for the winegrowers of the Douro. Who will pay the cost of the updated control of the planned registration for the House of Douro? What kind of collaboration will the House of Douro give in the control and defense of designations of origin and geographical indications of wines in the region? What kind of intervention will the House of Douro have if this is done in an appropriate and proportionate manner by the IVDP? With the diplomas presented, one of the two things will happen: either the total emptying of the IVDP, contributing to further dismantling of the Ministry of Agriculture, or the duplication and artificial sharing of State functions by different bodies competing with each other. The House of Douro has a valuable real estate estate in different municipalities of the demarcated region. Why does the Government not engage in partnerships with the authorities in order to intervene in the building heritage of the House of Douro? Why does he not accept the transfer of this heritage to the authorities?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u79	What's the water charge for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u80	At the same time, we ask the proponents of the initiatives: would it not at least be ethical to hear the Federation Renewal of the Douro, which is the current legitimate representative of the House of Douro?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u81	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u82	Why didn't you listen to IVDP before you presented the bills we discussed today? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is committed, with the Douro region, to return dignity to the House of Douro, without legal abuses and no more taxes on taxpayers. The PSD defends a Douro House for the future, with the ambition to contribute to the growth and development of the region's wine business, increasing the annual turnover of wine products and wine tourism. The PSD defends a House of Douro which rightly represents not only all production but also trade. The PSD Parliamentary Group assumes, here and today, that it will present a legislative initiative for enocturism. Enocturism has no legal framework in Portugal, unlike in Spain and France. The PSD says in a responsible manner that it is available to discuss and present proposals that best defend the Demarcated Douro Region. We will never allow any ideological prejudice to destroy a productive sector that has everything to generate wealth in Portugal. We defend, today and always, the Douro, World Heritage, pride of Portugal and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u83	Sir, you have a request for clarification. There is no time to answer, but Mr Agostinho Santa is asking for clarification. Therefore, to this end, Mr Agostinho Santa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u84	Mr President, it is a request for clarification turned into something else, if necessary in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u85	Mr President, you have to decide, because if it is anything else, it goes to the order of inscriptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u86	Mr. President, it is a request for clarification, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u87	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u88	Mr President, Mr. João Moura, the clarification I want to ask is exactly the following: why have you not come to the game now and here, as regards the House of Douro? Why are they taking refuge in the future of enocturism — which we think has and must have future — and why do they not find, with us, that the House of Douro is now the future of the Douro?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u89	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u90	Let the winegrowers say so! I think it's a shame and I'd like you to answer this: how does this PSD feel right here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u91	Say something up there and here, another!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u92	...to interpret your mandate before those who represent? It is that the PSD that is up there in the North, who suffers up there with us, has already said, clearly and unequivocally—in particular by the voice of the CIMDOURO (Intermunicipal Douro Community), in which, as you know, the majority — which is in favour of the restoration of the House of Douro, so that there is no doubt, as a public association of compulsory registration. [[P.S.'s applause and the public's elements in the galleries.]] The PSD in the region will stay in the light, is getting in the light and is wanting to stay in the light with us. What is asked is whether the PSD, which is here and which we heard by Mr. João Moura's voice, will want to continue to remain in the shadow, because if you stay in the shadow, I guarantee you to leave the photograph. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u93	O Douro, come down here to see this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u94	Let me remind people that we like to have in the gallery that can't be manifested in any way. I now give the floor to Mr Rui Afonso to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft laws we are debating are the subject of the restoration of the House of Douro as a public association of compulsory registration and the approval of its statutes. The arrival cannot follow these purposes, which represent an interference by the State in matters which the Durians respect and which have deprived them of their freedom of initiative and the free management of their associative and productive life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This idea raises the greatest doubts of a legal and constitutional nature, and does not serve to solve the real problems of the Douro region. In fact, it is our view that the restoration of the House of Douro, as a public association of compulsory registration, suffers from inconformity with the constitutional regime of public associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u97	A very significant part of the specific tasks that they intend to undertake in this process of restoration of the House of Douro is intended to have a mere activity of aid, or collaboration, to the associated wine growers, in terms that any association of private law could perform.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u99	Even more serious, it is intended to enable the House of the Douro — to appear! — to continue commercial activities. Public associations are of an exceptional nature and must be in line with the general public interest, so that their pursuit must lack public legal personality, by involving the exercise of authority, or at least administrative functions which cannot be performed by private law associations. in this case, it cannot be concluded, by the existence of a public task, the end of the public interest, so nothing justifies that only the winegrowers of the Douro are subject to the burden of integrating a public association, when the producers of other demarcated regions are not subject to the same obligation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u101	So, in our view, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, this restoration of the House of Douro grossly violates the principle of freedom of association. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Moreover, the mission to promote control of the quality and quantity of Port wines, regulating the production process, as well as the protection and protection of designations of origin of Douro and Porto and the Durian geographical indication are already pursued by IVDP, and therefore this mission is already effectively ensured by the State. The House of Douro, with its current configuration, is representative and has all the conditions to collaborate with the State and with IVDP to promote innovation and to add value, all this by free initiative and will of the producers of the Douro who freely, and not by imposition of the State, wish to associate. This is the House of Douro that we defend: a free institution, which already promotes the quality of wine, the renewal of vineyards, the improvement of castes, the projection of its products on national and international markets, the marketing and collaboration with all partners and the state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u102	We defend a free and free association institution for the representation of the interests of the producers, who retain the fate of the region demarcated in their hands and not under the yoke of any political power, or party interest. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Francisco Rocha's laughs.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our understanding that there is no valid justification for the restoration of the House of Douro as a public association of compulsory registration. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u103	Long live freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u104	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the proposals which have been brought here and which we will follow. For the NAP, the restoration of the House of Douro as a public association is of the greatest importance. This institution has gone through a great deal of trouble, especially after its extinction and privatization, in 2014 — perhaps because of that, and because it has been by the right hand and the Government of Passos Coelho, today we have this position, either by the PSD or by the Arrival itself — and even by the lead of the Constitutional Court of the attempt to reverse this measure. There is a process of degradation and destruction of the heritage of Casa do Douro, an institution that, we cannot forget, is historic, in a demarcated region, also ancient and historical, with great relevance to our country. The NAP believes that, in addition to solving the problems of the Douro House's debts, it is important that this institution is truly useful in defending the interests of the population and the region and that it can contribute to what will certainly be a challenge for this demarcated area, which is to prepare this region to be resilient to climate change, whose impact may call into question the interests of production. in this sense, in addition to the measures we have discussed, it will be important, in future, to discuss the possible support for the conversion of productions to more sustainable practices adapted to the great challenges of our time. I conclude by welcoming not only the region, but all those who have worked in defense of the House of Douro, saying that we will vote in favour of all these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u106	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the path of the kind of development that we want for our country — sustainable and inclusive development, based on a great appreciation of people, territory and knowledge — not all innovations come from the future. There are innovations that come from the past and that we can study in our history. When the Douro region was demarcated, what the Marquis de Pombal, who still did not have that name, wanted to do was to rebalance the country's balance of development with the imbalance that he felt with other countries in Europe at the time. And when we realized that in the industries that I wanted to encourage — lanifices, glass and so on — we would take a long time to reach the added value that the other countries already had, we created a perimeter of great qualification of the territory, which was also of knowledge and production. And it worked. When the House of Douro was created in the 20th century, what was done was to try to make small producers join their power and thus have some balance in relation to large producers and distributors. Then came Steps — not Steps Manuel, which would never do, but Steps Rabbit — and, as happened with so much at that time, it was worth destroying by privatizing the House of Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u108	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u109	The Free is entirely in favour of a restoration of the House of Douro as an association of public law...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u110	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u111	... and you are on the side, congratulating you, the PS, the PCP and the Left Block, who have already started this work at a time when the Free was not in this Parliament. The only thing we have to say is that, quite simply, there is now another voice that is with this initiative, which is indeed noble, as has already been said. [[Thank you very much, Mr. P.S. Augustinho Santa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u112	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate shows to the satisfaction that the most reactionary and conservative forces in this Parliament sit on the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u114	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u115	I say this because, in the face of the legitimate complaints of producers that sales do not rise, until they come down, that prices are not high, are even low — they are complaints today, what do you propose? They come to propose two — not one, but two! — back to the past. One of them is a close past, which is that of management — there it is! The PS, the PCP and the Left Block, together, make this proposal—and the other is a longer past, a little bit more surprising, which is that of the New State, because the proposal they come here to bring is the same as that of 1932.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u116	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u117	Let's see! In the face of legitimate complaints from producers about prices and sales, what do you propose? A House of Public Douro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u118	He's got his own organs, elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u119	... as if the State had ever shown the minimum of competence to manage a competitive activity and as if the other wine-making committees—which are private law organisations, of public interest— were not doing the work that the House of Douro should be doing. Then they come to propose a House of Duro of compulsory registration—probably, it will strike again in the framework of the Constitutional Court—as if freedom of association was a minor right and as if the other wine-making committees—which, once again, are not compulsory registration, but, yes, voluntary—are not doing an excellent job. Finally, they come to give the House of Douro a completely corporate nature, of gramme, which is like who says: « Whoever is in the business stays and who may eventually want to enter the business, bring new innovations and ideas, stays, but stays out of it», because he cannot enter into the Port wine business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u121	Therefore, this which you are proposing does not solve any of the problems that producers legitimately complain about. None! What would solve them would be the valorization and promotion of Port wine. Interestingly, this is an already-affected competence of IVDP — there it is! — a public institute that has done what? Oh, my God! Practically nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u122	Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u123	Do you run how much of the promotion budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u124	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u125	It's barely half past. Can you or can you not recruit the technicians you need for your certification and promotion work? No, you can't. Why? Oh, my God! Because it is, as a public institute, subject to captivating—as everything is, in Portugal, subject to captivating. So this will not solve anything at all! Today, you want to debate the return to the past. There will be a day when we will be able to discuss the future, the future of this extraordinary region, which is the High Douro Vinhateiro, and the future of this extraordinary product that is the Port wine. on that day, yes, this will deserve on our part and certainly on the part of the producers in the area of the Demarcada do Douro region, a toast with a beautiful vintage. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u126	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very tempting to say that there is, in this House, anyone who does not understand what you are talking about. It's very tempting, but it's not true. Got it! Actually, you see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u129	You know very well that the House of Douro is owned by producers, wine growers. You know very well that the House of Douro defends production! They can come with the most romanticized version of which was the Dona Ferreirainha or that was the Baron of Forrester who created the Douro. But it wasn't! It was the men and women who, punched up, kicked down, put stones there, who sold, who drew those slopes! [[PCP and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u130	It's not from the state! It's from them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u131	They built them and they are the legitimate owners of the House of Douro. Now, to finish, I want to remind you of something. When in 2014 they raided and destroyed the House of Douro, they know very well who said: "This problem is solved! Now, we just need to remove the black cloud from the benefit. » They know very well the consequences of this! You're not innocent! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u132	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a part of this debate that comes from previously taken positions and choices we condemn. We condemn, for example, the PSD's choice to want to end the House of Douro,... [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]] ... but we don't put the PSD on the same block as the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, which clearly don't understand what the House of Douro is or what's on the table. They haven't even read the diplomas carefully — I know they're big, they're dozens of pages — because if they had read them, they would realize that saying that the state is going to send them to the House of Douro is absurd. I repeat, it's absurd. It's a direction chosen by wine growers. Do you think wine growers are all state? Oh, my God! So you don't know the Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u134	It's ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u135	It can only be! Otherwise, they would never say that alarm, which has no other name.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u136	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u137	There is a choice on the table, that there is, and it is as simple as I said at the beginning: it is the choice between who defends who produces and who puts himself next to the market that favors who distributes. in this fundamental choice, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative have chosen who distributes. The PSD had already made its decision before. by destroying the House of Douro, he also chose who distributed. That's the problem in the House of Douro today! We can be here in archaeology, we can be discussing the past—and I didn't even mention Pedro Passos Coelho on this subject, because I was discussing the future of the House of Douro—but the future of the House of Douro, as the Durian producers know, is its future. Otherwise, it is the port's own wine that is at stake. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u138	We don't want to end the House of Douro!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u139	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u140	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u141	To make an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u142	Please, Mr. Deputy. He's got nine seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I didn't accuse anyone of not knowing what I was talking about. I accused people of wanting to set up a scheme that will neither favour the production of Douro wine, nor, above all, the production of Port wine. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the various wine regions of Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u144	That's special!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u145	... including Madeira wine region, which of them are working better and which one is working worse? In the last 25 years, of the wines that have been promoted in the world, which have exported themselves more, which have grown, who have gained quality, how many have public associations to manage their promotion and their organization? And how many of these associations were closed guilds to what comes from outside? I'll answer you! Excuse me for looking. I was zero. Repeat, zero! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u146	It's called Excel's sheet! We must recognize the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u147	To close the debate, Mr Francisco Rocha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2022, the sales of wines from the Demarcada do Douro Region reached a new historic peak of EUR 625 million and represented 70 % of Portuguese exports of wine with the Name of Protected Origin, and only the Port wine represented 58 % of these same exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u149	It's going wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u150	They are very important results for our country, but we cannot ignore that, on the basis of all this success, is the weakest link in all this row: production. If not, be careful: 33 % of Douro wine growers are over 65 years old,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u151	What about agriculture? Oh, my God! What's the difference?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u152	... 92 % of farmers in this demarcated region have less than 5 hectares of wine and often the price of grapes paid to producers falls below their production costs. On the other hand, it should not be forgotten that the peace and institutional normality of the demarcated region is largely due to the successful resolution of the issues relating to debts and the management of the heritage of the former Douro House, which the administrative commission appointed for this purpose by this House is still finalizing. With regard to this solution—they are changing! — the right of parliament, then, in this House, voted against. Repeat: voted against! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, the time has come to provide the region with a new statutory model, taking into account the challenges and opportunities of the oldest demarcated and regulated region in the world. This model should be of a public and compulsory nature, so that its representatives can integrate the Inter-Professional Council of IVDP with a strengthened legitimacy and also with another ambition: to have a renewed agenda, with well-defined priorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u154	This representation should be able to counter, lead and also add, making itself listen and representing, effectively and not camouflaged, the social mosaic of its producers, continuously promoting its defence, its representation, its formation, its innovation and adaptation to new challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u156	In short, it should ensure, in dialogue with representatives of trade and government, a pact of development and economic, social and environmental sustainability throughout the High Douro Vinhateiro, classified by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) as World Heritage Site of Humanity. It is therefore time to implement this new statistical model, so that it contributes to the construction of a stronger, more resilient, less unequal and more sustainable region, so that the Douro will continue to be, as Torga told us: "A geological poem. Absolute beauty’. Oops! Let's do it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u157	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we then move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 228 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Scheme of recruitment and placement of psychologists in public educational establishments ( first amendment of Decree-Law No 190 / 91 of 17 May ), 623 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Determines the duty of higher education institutions to provide mental health services to students, 627 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates a network of psychology services in public schools and higher education institutions and a telephone line of support in higher education, and 629 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — See Decree-Law No 190/91 of 17 May, strengthening the placement of psychologists in public institutions of basic and secondary education. Mr. Manuel Loff has the floor to present the PCP bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The Basics Act of the Education System has long assumed that the system should contribute to the full and harmonious development of the individual's personality and states that support for the psychological development of students and their school and professional orientation, as well as psycho-pedagogical support for educational activities and the system of relations of the school community are carried out by services of psychology and vocational school guidance. An important set of legislative measures, from the Statute of the Student and Ethics to the promotion of educational success, legislation on specialized support to provide students with specific educational needs, presupposes long ago the existence, with an active role, of psychology services and school guidance in basic and secondary education. The positive impact of psychologists in the school context is duly recognized in areas such as: the global mental health of the educational community; the effective education for health; the improvement of learning; the prevention of abandonment, insecurity and indiscipline; the management of conflicts between peers, between students and teachers and among various educational agents; the promotion of transversal competences; the process of vocational decision-making; the inclusion of students with special educational needs and the improvement of their learning; the integration of ethnic minorities and the improvement of their learning; the promotion of equality between men and women; the approximation of education officers to school; the improvement of the mental health of teachers; and the training of teaching and non-teaching staff. The impact of the covid-19 pandemic and the adopted strategy, of long phases of confinement, has left us a delayed explosion-clock bomb. The Order of Psychologists warned, already in 2021, that, like what happened in previous economic crises, the current crisis was also expected to have as a result an increase in the difficulties and problems of psychological health and a decrease in well-being, An alert corroborated by studies that proved, two years ago, an increase in psychological health problems, particularly anxiety and depression. Last year, another study — drawn up in partnership with several entities linked to the Ministry of Education, such as the Order of Psychologists and the Gulbenkian Foundation — highlighted the need for this proposal from the Communist Party, to strengthen the recruitment of school psychologists, when it noted that about one third of the students accuses signs of psychological suffering and lack of socio-emotional competences in at least one of the measures considered. According to international recommendations, the ratio of psychologists with intervention in school should not exceed 500 students for each psychologist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u160	However, according to the analysis of the Portuguese case, we continue with a school context in which we have 694 students for each psychologist, that is, 40% more than what is recommended. In 1997 the career of the psychologist was created within the Ministry of Education, which allowed not only the recruitment and linkage of these workers to public school but also the guarantee of career progression. But in 2018, this regime was repealed and recruitment has since brought these workers closer to the precarious situation in public school. The PCP understands psychology in school context as an instrument for strengthening public school quality and this legislative initiative aims to contribute to the entry and stability in the career of psychologists and in responding to the needs of schools. thus, we intend, among other things, of course, to recover the career of the psychologist within the Ministry of Education. [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u161	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u162	I conclude, Mr. President. the recognition and appreciation of the work of psychologists in school is fundamental that correspond to the effective conditions of labor and personal stability, as well as the possibility of entry and progression in a career. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u163	I would like to congratulate all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Continuing the presentation of initiatives, for a free speech, I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the CFP for the scheduling of this debate and in particular Mr Manuel Loff, so I think it was your first intervention in this House. It is good to have someone who, besides being a fellow historian, knows well the reality of public higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u165	Then you don't have time to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u166	This is also an opportunity for the Free to join in the debate a bill with which it intends to clearly contemplate the State's obligations with regard to higher education and, in particular, social action, the provision of mental health services; a project, in essence, which understands as a bet on the well-being of people who have an obligation of higher education institutions to have psychological support services for their students.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u167	Thirty seconds in straw!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u168	We need to prevent it rather than remedy it. Higher education is an environment, often due to phenomena that in recent years have worsened, of great productivity, of great competitiveness in the wrong sense — although in good too — which puts great pressure on people and develops phenomena of psychological fragility, which is important to be able to prevent rather than remedy. It is also an environment in which, with the pandemic crisis and the current economic crisis, there are a whole range of problems that are not at the door of the university or the higher political institute and which must be monitored within the institution, because the pandemic and this context of economic crisis expose the emergence of mental health problems. Mental health services should be available and easy to access. In addition to being able to have them, they need to have the ability to answer. It is therefore very important that the State, the Council of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities and the Coordinator Council of the Polytechnic Higher Institutes make a collective effort to equip our institutions of higher education of psychologists, who will not only promote mental health within universities as they will help us to be a more inclusive country and also with a healthier productivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u169	You've got two minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u170	We now turn to the presentation of the NAP initiative, so you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u171	No one hit the Rui Tavares!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's young people live in a frenetic world, horrified in their day-to-day, by the fear of their future, by the uncertainty, by the pressure, by the stress, by the anxiety, by the lack of real solidarity between the generations that guarantee them that tomorrow's world will be better than today's — among so many other factors that were spoken before the pandemic, but that the pandemic has shown even more. Let us look at the case of higher education, in which nearly half of the students, about 48 %, show serious problems of the psychological forum, such as depression, anxiety or loss of control; and girls, once again, are the most affected. in this case of higher education, not all establishments have access to indirect social action, i.e., there are students who, in order to have access to a consultation, have to pay protocols that exist with the private, in which a consultation, instead of the usual 5 €, costs 25 €. And for a student who is already displaced from his city, who has to pay for the accommodation, who has to pay the food, who also has to pay other expenses inherent to the study, thus adds a monthly expenditure which, as a rule, is not less than 100 €. In order to respond to complaints from young people, we cannot refer them to such deprotection and that is why the NAP is proposing the creation of a network of psychology services in public schools and institutions of higher education, as well as a line of support in higher education today. If, increasingly, young people talk more openly about their problems, mental health and the need for prevention — a challenge that has brought us to the Assembly of the Republic so many student associations and federations — it is essential that the State give a public response to these concerns. Only through a real network that covers all the young people who need help can we be effectively betting on prevention. And here, far from ideological complexes, because the lack of this public network, as in the case of housing and student housing, has actually left many students behind. The Minister of Health announced yesterday that he will create a global plan of intervention for mental health problems — curiously, on the eve of this debate. We hope that, indeed, it will now be worth...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u173	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u174	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. We also hope that tomorrow, when we vote on these proposals — on a problem that everyone today says is fundamental to solving — goes beyond words, allowing for the feasibility of the various initiatives put forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u175	Madam Member, the Bureau has a request for clarification, to which it will not have time to answer. In any case, I will give the floor to Mrs Rosa Venâncio of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to make the request for clarification to which Mrs Inês de Sousa Real will not have the opportunity to reply. You have the floor, then, Mrs. Rosa Venâncio.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by welcoming the only representatives of the Free and the NAP for bringing the initiatives under discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u177	We're on the agenda!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u178	The pandemic we have lived very recently has become more evident and has sharpened mental health issues, especially among young people. of the legislative initiatives presented, the bill signed by the NAP aims to extend the experience of the Network of Psychological Support Services in Higher Education to the whole public education system and create a line of support for mental health in higher education. If it is true that this issue becomes more pressing today, it is also true that the answers, long ago, were already of the concern of the institutions. Over the past two decades, institutions have made a huge effort to ensure an adequate response to the mental health challenges that students, researchers, teachers and non-teachers have put in place. It is therefore important to highlight the work of a significant number of higher education institutions that provide psychological support offices to promote well-being. We know that, despite this effort, there is still a set of identified needs, aggravated by the impact of the pandemic on the younger population, which is important to resolve. The Government's commitment in this area is well known. Since the State Budget, it is planned to create and involve intervention for mental health problems and will be presented, in May, the plan to prevent mental health in higher education, with a view to its operationalization from the next academic year. Today's diploma has the merit of keeping this subject under discussion, which concerns all of us. I would like to know what you think about the plan we are implementing because, essentially, nothing mentioned in your proposal. Is the presentation of this initiative extemporaneous? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u179	Mrs Rosa Venâncio is certainly a very relevant question. Then Mrs Inês de Sousa Real will do her favor to explain what her thought is. We now turn to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, having the floor of Mrs Rita Matias, to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, mental health lacks cross-cutting investment and that is why we are presenting a specific but decisive proposal here today. We call for increased access to psychology services and school guidance for students of basic and secondary education, because the data do not mislead: half of mental illnesses arise between 10 and 19 years of age, and most diseases are not diagnosed or treated. Depression is the third most common disease among adolescents and suicide is the main cause of death among young people between the ages of 15 and 29. On the other hand, the Portuguese ratio of psychologists in schools is over 1,000 students per school psychologist, according to the Order of Psychologists, a situation that tends to be more alarming in the most demanding and lacking contexts. The mental health crisis is increasingly inherent in the process of schooling, if we add to this the fact that half of the teachers have physical or psychological suffering.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u182	We can say that there has never been such a serious mental health crisis in Portuguese schools. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why we have a duty to demand more psychologists in schools and to realize that safeguarding the psychological well-being of our upstream young people is saving investments in aggravated diseases, and even physical diseases, downstream. And if, until here, we can talk in unison, from here on, I think the Arrival is alone in this House, because we do not embark on the outsourcing of responsibilities, unlike the gentlemen, who speak as if they had never had governmental responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u184	The mental health crisis in young Portuguese has a name and a responsible: Socialist government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And, let us be frank, the party that alternates in power with this party is not much better either. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When a young Portuguese person suffers from the anxiety of having to decide between the course of his dreams and the option that does not lead him to unemployment, it is your responsibility. When a young man is depressed because he sees his peers leaving the country, his responsibility is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u185	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u186	When, in the pandemic, children were isolated and did not care about the consequences for their development and well-being, it was your responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u187	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u188	When they have limited freedom of worship, continuing to persecute those who have faith, responsibility is yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] When they create doubts in children and young people and, above all, a climate of suspicion before the first institution that loves them — and have no doubt that it is the family! — It is your responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u189	When children are taught in a classroom with gender ideology and they are told that they cannot trust in nature or in what they see in the mirror, responsibility is yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When they start social transition processes, they mutilate children or begin the entupi of hormonal blockers without having an opinion of psychologist or psychiatrist, responsibility is yours. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] That is why we should be ashamed of these politicians who promote a culture of destruction. You have hands stained with the physical and psychological suffering of young Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If, once again, the proposal of the Arrival, in the face of the scenario that is emerging from a social and economic crisis, remains to tell me: that God helps us and that he helps Portugal. [[Congratulations from the CH, having Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u190	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u191	Physically castration of young people, that's what they do! [[Protests of PS Members and CH Counter-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u192	I ask for some serenity to the House. We must continue with our debate and that is not how our views are resolved. In democracy, it is using the word that points of view are resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u193	Order the PS stand shut down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u194	It's called the spiritual director! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u195	in a desperate attempt to calm the House, I give the floor to Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative. [[Protests by the Member of the PS Porfirio Silva and the Member of the CH Pedro Pinto.]] [[Pause.]] I would ask your attention to the speech of our colleague, Mrs Carla Castro, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that all of us in this House, without exception, consider that there is a need to maintain mental health as an absolute priority in the various aspects, be educational, preventive, remedial or follow-up. The Liberal Initiative considers that the quality in mental health of all citizens — including children, young people and young adults — must result from articulated policies that cross-sectionally involve the sectors involved, the various safeguards, such as education and health, but also take on a personal dimension and training, which is important not to forget. We believe that still, and in a very limited way, it is still necessary to combat the stigma associated with mental illness. Training and education for psychological literacy are fundamental. This is a problem that has been growing. It was serious before the pandemic — visible, for example, at the high level of anxiolytics and self-medication in the Portuguese population — and passed, during the pandemic, to a dimension known as'silent pandemic'. Regarding the reality of mental health in public schools, we identify several problems, of which we highlight, for example, the little time allocated to psychological and psychopedagogic support, or, as we have been repeating very many times, the absence of a national resource mapping. As for the measures brought here today, in the context of higher education, understanding their good intentions, we believe that the results of some of them correspond to the duplication of services. The Government announced yesterday the creation of a national mental health plan in higher education, recognizing, in particular, the worsening of complaints, and the Liberal Initiative will be here to see if this is a plan that will come out of role.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u197	I had already announced in October!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u198	As in everything, it is also important to base the problem. What makes mental health in Portugal so loud? What causes this despair? What makes it particularly so in youth, which is a time of achievements and anxieties, certainly, but also of hope, of energy, of stamina? Let us recall, for example, the School Observatory report : Monitoring and Action Psychological and Wellbeing Health of 2022, which showed us evidence that almost 30% of Portuguese adolescents feel unhappy—almost twice as much as the one verified in 2014—that 18% of adolescents have difficulty in falling asleep, compared to 8% in 2014 ; and that 25% have self-sustaining behaviors, compared to 20% in 2014. This is a disaster! In Portugal, we need a vision of the future, a hope and — yes! — a culture of realization, hope, support, risk and always in respect of individual freedoms. This will provide, above all, a basis for a lower incidence of mental health problems. We also need greater capacity and capacity to achieve each one, and these are legitimate aspirations that fail in a country that seems to be without direction and without future. The signs are everywhere and, as a society, we cannot look to the side. It is essential to improve the instruments that exist and divulge them for greater use and expansion. This includes helping the school community and, yes, intervening and directing. In short — what is very important — we need a country with a future, with hope and that, as regards mental health, it has a tolerant and open society, which in general knows how to prevent, identify, not judge and help treat. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u199	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor. Is it for an appeal to the Bureau, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u200	Yes, Mr President, having no time to answer, I will ask the Bureau to distribute and bring to the bench of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group yesterday's news that the plan that was announced, precisely yesterday, is not even in force. The speaker showed the news she referred to. Therefore, extemporaneousness, to exist, will always be the PS, and not the PAN. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u201	You may then send the document to the Bureau, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u203	Continuing now for the PSD Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Maria Emília Apolinário.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP and the Arrival call us to discuss the need for psychologists in public institutions of basic and secondary education, and there are some differences between the two proposals. The draft law of the Arrival proposes the strengthening of the placement of psychologists in public institutions of basic and secondary education. In the composition of the technical teams, it defines a ratio of 1 psychologist to 500 students, and also says that, where this minimum cannot be met, there should be protocols with various entities, from SNS to private or social services. currently, the ratio, on the continent, is from 1 psychologist to 744 students. On the other hand, the PCP bill affects the recruitment and placement of psychologists in public schools, talks about the composition of technical teams and also defines a ratio of 1 to 500, but above all proposes the creation of a special career in the Ministry of Education, to approve within six months, as well as the opening of a negotiating process within 30 days after the publication of the law. As for us, this interferes with the autonomy of the government, since it gives a concrete direction in setting deadlines. In addition, I have to stir the memory of the PCP, since, in 1997, the career of psychologist in the Ministry of Education was created, but 21 years later, in 2018, this diploma was revoked, within the framework of the legislation for inclusive education, and psychologists transferred to the general career of superior technician, becoming hired by schools. In 2018, the government was of António Costa — it was management! — and had the support of the PCP, the ENP and the Block! [[Protests by PCP Deputies Duarte Alves and João Dias.]] [[PSD applause.]] I had, I had! Now, the PCP decided not to remember the management, it erased it from memory, just like it usually erases things that don't like from history. Why did the PCP then allow this diploma to be revoked in 2018, which ended with the career as a psychologist? Did he repent and now demand the race back? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u205	There are reasons in the CFP that the reason does not know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u206	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u207	The PSD, on the contrary, has memory, is a responsible party, presented a draft resolution on this matter, in the previous legislature, and will accompany the proposals that reinforce psychologists in schools, until they are necessary and the recent pandemic left us a sort of collective distress state. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u208	You now have the floor to speak by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Lobo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u209	Mr. President, Dear Members and Members: In good time, the PCP and the Arrival bring bills that allow us to discuss and demonstrate the long way towards strengthening and placing school psychologists, with effective concern and demonstrated action by the governments of recent years. We talk about vision, concern and, above all, action that illustrates the importance of psychologists, mental health and responses to constant needs. We affirm the view that recognizes psychology in school context as an instrument for strengthening public school quality and although the initiatives presented can generally converge in its object, they are rooted in a vision of school psychology very different from one another. The biased vision of the arrival project requires us to be unequivocal and to clarify what professional profile we are talking about. Psychologists of education intervene not only in the microsystem of each individual, but preferably in contexts and interactions that promote the integral development of the person.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u211	This means that the intervention of these professionals should be multilevel, in order to suit the nature of the services provided to the needs of the different segments of the school population. Psychology in school is not — nor can it be! — a version of clinical psychology and, for this reason,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u212	Shame! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u213	...it does not bind to health or mental illness and does not merely rely on an individual service logic, one to one relationship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, any proposal that is based on these ideas is reductive, even based on assumptions that are wrong. Mrs. Members, it was enough to read carefully the Decree-Law No. 54 / 2018, of which psychologists are an integral part. Psychologists contributed to this legislative framework and the school psychologist is a permanent element of the multidisciplinary team supporting inclusive education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u214	And where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u215	As a result of all the work already done, we currently have 150 % of the psychologists that schools had in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u216	How many are there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u217	The fact, in fact, that led to the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, at their last Congress in October 2022, to point out this significant evolution in the ratio of the number of psychologists per student. It is now time to take another step towards the stability of these professionals, being on the negotiating table, as we saw yesterday, a relevant proposal for the linkage of specialized technicians from our schools, category where school psychologists fit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u218	How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u219	This has been a long and always fruitful journey...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u220	Do you enjoy it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u221	... in affirming the role of school psychologists and their importance, as, in fact, it was reaffirmed in the measures of the Post-Pandemic Learning Recovery Plan, in which many of our school groups have chosen, precisely, to strengthen the service of psychology and guidance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u222	Why would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u223	This has been the journey with psychologists, knowing that we have not yet reached the destination, but we are doing so, by psychologists and, always and above all, by students and students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u224	That's negationism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u225	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank the CFP for the scheduling of this issue, this debate. In fact, the lack of psychologists in schools, universities, SNS is a chronic problem in Portugal. It is a problem that has reflections that are obvious in the high prevalence of mental illness, but not only. It also reflects on the problems of learning, socio-emotional development, the perpetuation and expansion of social and economic inequalities that occur within the school itself. These negative consequences are particularly significant in times of crisis, such as the one we have lived so far for health reasons and what we are now living for economic reasons. There is, of course, the pandemic and, now, the inflation situation, which is drastically reducing the purchasing power and the quality of life of many families. The pandemic was already a disruptive episode and all studies indicate that it was the youngest who suffered most psychologically, which means that isolation, loss of contexts of socialization, obstacles to emancipation or the impediment of certain rituals of socialization and transition had impacts. at this moment, it adds economic uncertainty, which is attacking many families with obvious impacts on health and mental well-being of the younger ones belonging to these same families. For example, higher education students cannot find rooms at a comportable price, they are increasing requests for emergency support, low incomes and precariousness increases and only innocent or cynical is that they may find that all this does not reflect mental health. If at all times the number of psychologists, particularly in the school and university context, should be strengthened, this strengthening is especially necessary in the context in which we live. Therefore, already in the State Budget for 2023, we proposed that the Government hire psychologists for the frameworks of public higher education institutions in order to realize the ratio of a psychologist to 500 students. However, despite being a demand for federations, academic associations, student associations and even to go in line with what the Order of Psychologists has requested, this proposal was plunged by PS and PSD, not recognizing, at this time of the Budget, the need to increase support for students in mental health. We currently have negationism in relation to the crisis we are experiencing and its consequences on the part of the government, particularly regarding mental health, and this can only mean that the proposals currently under discussion, in order to increase the number of professionals in school and higher education, are very important. Just listen to what the students themselves say. A short time ago, Margarida Constantino, student of 11. the year, he wrote to the public asking exactly the hiring of more psychologists, the pretext of the study that went out and that gave indication that one third of the students and half of the teachers present signs of psychological suffering. The Order of Psychologists itself presented two very important proposals to strengthen the number of psychologists in school groups, but also in higher education institutions. So, in conclusion, Mr President, there are many pressures that young people and young people experience — stress, anxiety, depression. Unfortunately, the National Health Service, as far as mental health is concerned, is still far from what is necessary and that is why we generally follow the initiatives that are under discussion today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u227	We are returning to the PSD Parliamentary Group, now giving the floor to Mr Dinis Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « A country that does not have its young people with reasonable mental health is not a country with a great future. » The statement is by Miguel Xavier, of the National Coordination for Mental Health Policies, and it is a statement, Mr. Members, which contrasts with Portuguese reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u230	Portugal is the second country in the European Union with a higher prevalence of mental illness, both in the adult population and in the young population. I put this to the question: what has the Socialist Party done so far? [[PSD applause.]] Well, last year, he announced a mental health program in higher education, an announcement reinforced in February by the Ministry of Higher Education and yesterday by the Ministry of Health. But what you of the Socialist Party don't know is that the mental health of Portuguese students is too serious to live on advertisements. [[PSD applause.]] We therefore challenge this majority of parliament to leave the bubble in which it is found and to know reality. The PSD appeals to students to be heard and to act quickly, because, sir. Members, the reality of the country is this: the Iscte (Instituto Universitário de Lisboa ) has five psychologists for 13 000 students, two of them being paid by the Association of Students; the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisboa has two psychologists for more than 5000 students, the two paid also by the Association of Students; the University of Minho has a psychologist, imagine! , for the entire academic community — students, teachers and non-teachers, in a total of 23 000 people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u231	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u232	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the reality of mental health in Portuguese universities, a reality which the Socialist Party seems not to be quick to resolve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u233	It will again use the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, through Mrs Rita Matias. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u234	Mr President, I have listened carefully to Mrs Catarina Lobo of the Socialist Party, who said that at the level of the mental health of our students the Socialist Party has made a long and demonstrated action. Now, the demonstrated action of the Socialist Party — and this is said by the Order of Portuguese Psychologists — is that 61% of school psychologists claim to exceed the ratio of psychologists by 1,000 students. I didn't say it, it's not enough to say it, it's the Order of Psychologists. After all, the Socialist Party did not follow such a long and glorious path as they wanted to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u236	In addition, clearly, he has not read what the Arrival proposes, because the Arrival proposes that there be a strengthening of the number of psychologists in schools and that, where the public response does not arrive, one can count on the private and the social sector. This is because what is fundamental is that students don't stay behind. We need to define where we want to be focused, whether it's in the students or whether it's in the vocation of psychologists. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I don't care if psychologists are more dedicated to one thing or another. The question is this: if children and young people do not have access to psychologists in the health center, if children and young people do not have access to psychologists in the National Health Service, if they do not have access to psychologists in school, where will children be able to have the psychological support they need? And to this the Socialist Party cannot answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u237	Sure! You have to read the project of arrive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u238	But it also failed to respond to the provocation about social experimentalism, gender ideology and the perversion of curricula that have been carried out in Portuguese schools and that have very high rates of repentance. This is due to the feeling of guilt and the fact that they know that they will be on the wrong side of history, with worse blame than, eventually, those of Nazi experimentalism. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u239	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a position to turn to the end of this agenda item and therefore I give the floor to Mr Manuel Loff.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate has shown a consensus — apparently at least — on mental health problems, but surely there is no consensus on the causes, nor on the multidimensionality of the intervention of school psychologists. in this debate there is at least one parliamentary group that participates in portraying reality in terms similar to a fiction-catastrophe film, using language of 70 or 80 years ago, but we need a serious debate on serious problems! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] Anyone in our schools needs psychological support needs to be taken seriously. [[CH protests.]] With the presentation of this bill, the PCP intends that public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education have, in their staff frameworks, and according to the specific needs of the school community, the appropriate number of psychologists, precisely according to the ratio we mention in our project, one psychologist for 500 students, and that is, moreover, established in international standards. in this sense, what we want is not to create, is to recreate, is to restore a career of psychologists. We understand that the recruitment, recruitment and linkage regime ceases to apply to these workers the rules of the recruitment and recruitment of teachers, so the advertisement—is true, advertising! — the imminent linkage of a series of these technicians, to us, does not satisfy us. In 1997 and until 2018, there was a career as a psychologist and we understood that it must be restored. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u241	Our project also provides for a negotiation process in this same direction. the recognition and appreciation of the work of psychologists in school is fundamental that correspond to effective conditions of labour and personal stability, as well as the possibility of entry and progression in a career. This is valid for all workers, but it is, above all, coherent in a post-pandamy context marked by the impact that, in elementary and secondary school students, had the social and emotional environment experienced in the periods of confinement and closure of schools. We cannot continue to diagnose problems without making a decisive contribution to their resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u242	This concludes the debate on item 3 of today's agenda. We will now move on to point 4 which consists in the assessment of Petition No. 29 / XV / 1. a ( Commission of Health Users of the Town Council of Peniche )... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who respect the Bureau, especially in the announcement of a petition which is the direct voice of the citizens in this House. [[Pause.]] As I was saying, we will proceed to the assessment of Petition No. 29 / XV / 1. a ( Committee of Health Users of the Peniche Council ) — Ensure access to primary health care and hospital care services in the Peniche Council, together with Resolution Projects Nos 421 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the establishment of a SUB-Basic Emergency Service at the Large Navy Health Centre, 431 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensuring access to primary health care and hospital care services in the county of Peniche, 443 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts to improve access to SNS in the West, 464 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Access to health care in the county of Peniche, 473 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of health professionals in primary health care in the county of Peniche and in the valences of Peniche hospital, 475 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government create a basic emergency service in the Great Navy health centre, and 479 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government pursue improvements in access to the National Health Service in the West. I'm more than happy to say hello to the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners of this petition No 29 / XV / 1. to which seven draft resolutions are being discussed, see the interest that this matter has raised in Parliament. I therefore give the floor, immediately, to the Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Hugo Oliveira, to make the presentation of the draft resolution of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin, of course, by greeting the petitioners who accompany us and bring us here a latent concern with primary health care and hospital health care in the county of Peniche. The county of Peniche is a predominantly agricultural and fisheries-related council, but it is also linked to tourism and doubling, at least, I would say, its inhabitants in summer. These users, whether seasonal or not, clearly have difficulties in accessing health care in this municipality. As regards primary health care, about 50% of the users do not have a family doctor; the four existing health centres have a terrible difficulty, due to the lack of professionals, in providing primary health care services to all these users; the lack of professionals is shocking. But when we talk about hospital care in Peniche, we also find that medical teams need to be strengthened, that the hospital needs works and that health care leaves much to be desired. I am sure this is not the time to talk about the West Hospital or its location—it is not, by the way! — but there is a need to talk about the importance of this hospital and its establishment in order to ensure that these users have better access to health care. We realize that a hospital is not made with a fingerbrush, but because the population deserves this attention and these health care, it will be essential to guarantee the work provided in the director plan of the West Hospital Center — not only for Peniche, but for the Queen's Caldas and Torres Vedras — to give appropriate conditions to these users. Let me look at this matter in the perspective of the Leiria district: the improvement of these conditions is fundamental when we speak in the south of the district, already at the entrance of the district of Lisbon, but it is when we speak in the north of the district that enters the draft resolution we present today. The project refers to the need for the creation of a basic emergency service in the municipality of Marinha Grande. This council is predominantly industrial. It has heavy industry and some danger, which works 24 hours over 24 hours, and, since there is an accident, the provision of immediate care does not sympathize with the distance from the hospital in Leiria, where these accidents will be transported. Thus, the creation of the SUB ( Basic Emergency Service) in the Great Navy is a necessity that will also ease the burden on the Leiria Hospital, which was built for 230 000 users and today has close to 400 000, as well as on the permanent service, which exists and which already provides support to the north of the municipality of Alcobaça up to the municipality of Nazaré. What is intended — and finally — is intended, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that, whether in the north or in the south of Leiria district, they guarantee primary health care with the hiring of more professionals and creating conditions in hospitals to ensure such care to the users of the district, but also to those who visit us, because we are a quite tourist district. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u244	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a member elected by the Leiria district by the Party, I comply with the Committee of Health Users of the Peniche municipality, petitioners who claim to strengthen access to health care. The priority issue refers to health centres, small units of consultations and primary care that are very different from the size and multiplicity of valences of a hospital. Of course, the aged populations of the region need the construction of the new hospital in the West. That is crucial, but that is not the point. What's at stake is the vice of answering the complaints from the top down, from the great to the small,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u247	... from the largest hospital in a large city to the smallest health center in a small rural parish. However, solutions never arrive. The populations of the Peniche council are confronting Parliament with the opposite: they demand responses from the micro to the macro, from the bottom up, from the small to the big. Who has to solve a big and complex problem fails, if it starts with great solutions. Rigor in the method is to fragment the big problem into small units. Then, looking for micro solutions for each of these small units — this is called rationality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u249	It would be a great victory to find solutions to the health center of a single parish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u250	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u251	For example, the health extension of Atouguia da Baleia, the largest rural parish of the county of Peniche, has no family doctor and the health center of Ferrel has only one family doctor and one nurse for about 3000 users. The direct hiring of two, three, four or five doctors would suffice to respond to the demands of the populations. We're not talking about a hospital. The rational basis would recommend, for example, that the Municipal Chamber of Peniche could hire two, three, four, five doctors, such as hiring engineers, designers or architects. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The municipal power exists to find proximity solutions for its population. A political class that cannot implement a micro decentralization of this nature is because it prefers massive and vague decentralization processes, which do not benefit the populations, only the political class itself. The central power of the State, the Ministry of Health, gives evidence of being no longer able to manage a large number of doctors, nurses and other specialized health personnel. The poor populations would benefit if the Ministry of Health focused on solving the problems of macro units, of large hospitals, and left the micro units, the health centers of the parish, delivered to the municipal chambers. This would strengthen the social state. Pilot experiments are carried out, at least in the case of the martyred rural fries or of low population density. Hire two, three, four, five doctors or nurses to the health centers of Atouguia da Baleia, Serra d'El Rei, Ferrel or Peniche would not turn the Municipal Chamber of Peniche into a kind of Ministry of Health. The municipality would only add half a dozen employees to its staff. The problem is that centralized and centralized governments and political forces do not tolerate that a municipal chamber of another political orientation, politically out of line, may have the slightest influence on teachers, doctors or nurses. These are the large socio-professional groups that decide elections. The irrational form in which the social state defends itself is the mask of the political push of the centralized left of electoral control of the large socio-professional groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u252	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u253	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This subversion of democracy sacrifices the health and quality of life of the populations, aggravated, decades ago, the cohesion of the national territory, the desertification of the interior, the excessive concentration of the population on the coast. Policy cannot continue to be an enemy of rationality and responsibility. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u254	We now turn to the intervention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group by Mrs Sara Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to begin by welcoming the 7581 petitioners and the authorships who accompany them and who are today, here, widely represented in this Assembly of the Republic. I would like to welcome these petitioners, who, in an act of responsible citizen participation, have mobilized to defend their rights, in particular the constitutionally guaranteed right of access to health care. The petitioners cry for the resolution of the problem of guaranteeing access to family doctors in the county of Peniche, accounting for 45% of the population of this municipality without access to family doctors. This situation, at the time of the petition, was particularly serious in the extension of the Atouguia da Baleia, the largest rural parish of this municipality, and where there was no response in this area. Indeed, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the area of ACES (group of health centres) West North, which also covers the county of Peniche, as well as the area of ACES West South are most affected, in the country, by the lack of family doctors, compromising the functioning of the different health units and extensions and leaving hundreds of users without access to primary health care. In the ACES West North today we have 46,928 non-family users, in the ACES West South there are 70,835 — data from the Transparency portal, the SNS, even today consulted. In total, the West region has over 100,000 registered users without a family doctor, a population with an aging demographic profile and characterized by a strong prevalence of chronic diseases. Some of these units are unfolded in extensions that do not currently have any medical team. They are still located at considerable distances from the headquarters of the family health units ( USF ) to which they belong, so their closure, due to the lack of health professionals, and sometimes also due to the lack of administrative authorities, makes it impossible even to travel more vulnerable, economically and socially to the headquarters of these USFs. In addition to these difficulties in the region, the fact that, also at the level of hospital care, the response is quite compromised either by the demand overload of the hospital units of the Caldas da Rainha, Peniche and Torres Vedras, which integrate the Hospital Center of the West and serve this entire population, either by their age, obsolescence and structural conditions and equipment of these three hospitals, with considerable distances between them. It is therefore consensual, as it is known, the need for the construction of a new hospital unit that serves the population of this region.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u257	We welcome the recent commitment made by the Minister of Health, and expressed in the State Budget Report for 2023, on the implementation of the new West Hospital. It should also mention the recent publication of Despacho No. 556 / 2023, of 11 January, which: « It is a working group for technical analysis with a view to deciding on the location of the future hospital of the West and its functional profile, as well as on the timing, mode of operation and the financing of the process of its construction. Do not keep on seeking. ” They also recognize the different investments that have been made in the different hospital units that integrate the West Hospital Center, and that they must continue to be made so that these units can give effective and effective response to those that are the needs of the populations they serve. We also note, as very positive, the commitment to the development of a plan by the Minister of Health, which can mitigate the lack of medical specialists in general and family medicine in the different regions of the country. Thus, and not only to respond to the needs of the Peniche council, but throughout the West, the PS Parliamentary Group presents this draft resolution, which recommends that the Government identify the areas of influence of the West and South ACES as priority areas of intervention in the plan it is working out to solve the problems of the lack of doctors specialists in general and family medicine. We also recommend that we increase the transposition capacity of the USF from model A to B in the West and promote the creation of integrated hospital-level responsibility centres, thus making these structures more attractive for the establishment of physicians and other clinical settings. Finally, we propose that the Government create the necessary conditions for making the investments provided for in the Plan Director of the West Hospital Centre, allowing these units to continue to provide an effective response to their users. In conjunction with the petition we are discussing today, two initiatives have also been introduced on the creation of a basic emergency service in the Council of the Great Navy, which we have already enjoyed, not only these initiatives, but all of them, to welcome. Although this latter project was motivated — declared, in fact, in the explanatory statements accompanying the initiatives — another petition, in this case, in the Great Navy, the truth is that, curiously, I would say, the authors of the initiatives have decided to drag them to this debate and that is why we will then talk about them. On these projects, it is worth mentioning: firstly, the Government has been implementing measures for access to emergencies and health care, including the operation of more 221 health centres open on Saturdays and 180 open on Sundays, with extended hours of service on working days and complementary to weekends and holidays, providing a community-friendly response in non-emergency health situations. I also add that the Great Navy has a SAP ( Permanent Care Service ). Secondly, it is also important to remember that basic emergency services normally work in a hospital environment and/or are created when the distance to a reference hospital is significant and, in particular, we are talking about a distance of about 5 km. In addition, it is under way, as it should be known to all the honourable Members and to all the Members. Members, the creation of a local health unit involving these ACES ( Health Centres Groups ), so the reorganization, both services and configurations, is at the moment we discuss these initiatives, to be studied and its subsequent configuration and implementation will certainly change the way these services are organized in this area of coverage. It recommends the prudence, good practice and even the rationality and rigour to be given to these measures which we can expect from the answer that emerges.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u258	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u259	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I leave here our commitment — to this Parliamentary and the Government — to the petitioners and the country to continue working every day to ensure that the health services, their conditions and access to their response improve, thus seeking to meet the needs of the people who, quite rightly, bring here their concerns that need a response. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u260	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to welcome the more than 7500 petitioners who brought the issue of access to health care in the county of Peniche to Parliament, in particular the Committee of Users that stimulated this petition. Actually, the data are very worrisome. The population of Peniche is included in the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, where in January 2023 there were more than 1 million and 70,000 users without a family doctor, i.e. more than 25% of users in this region. The same percentage is recorded in the Group of Western Health Centres North, where Peniche is inserted. According to the data given on the BI-CSP website — Primary Health Care Identity Card, which also refers to January 2023, in the personalized health care unit, more than 35% of the users had no family physician assigned, and there were only 7 clinics for about 18,900 registered users and for 4 buildings. Even the USF (family health unit) Marés registered, again in January 2023, almost 20% of users without a family doctor. As I said, data are worrisome and result in an obstacle to access to primary health care. But there are other problems. The Peniche hospital, which is inserted in the West Hospital Center, has been stage of several problems related to the lack of professionals, which is reflected by an obvious government disinvestment in the National Health Service ( SNS ). For example, the emergency service of Hospital S. Pedro Gonçalves Telmo, in Peniche, was completely closed in a few days of the end of 2022. In fact, the numbers presented for this council are not acceptable and call into question the right to health of the population and once again demonstrate the degradation of the SNS that is being carried out by the PS. There are more and more users without a family doctor and we know that there are family doctors, because they are trained every year at the SNS. But the government has no policies to allow them to fix themselves. For example, in the last tender for the hiring of specialists in general and family medicine, not only fewer vacancies have been opened than competitors have maintained a very high rate of deserted vacancies, particularly in the most deprived regions. Therefore, and in order to ensure access to health care for all populations, especially Peniche, which we are discussing here today, we propose that immediate competitions for family doctors be opened, prioritizing areas where there are files to be discovered and ensuring coverage to the population of the municipality of Peniche. But so that these competitions do not become desert again, we also propose that the government envisage the review of careers and the remuneration of professionals, thus creating incentives to fix and exclusivity in the SNS. We also propose that the barriers to the creation and development of family health units models A and B be removed; that the Government see the possibility of privatization of primary health care; that it invest in hospital health care, in particular in the West Hospital Centre and Peniche hospital; and that, for the implementation of the previous number, professionals and technology are hired, and their competitions are opened immediately, because the right of access to health must, yes, reach all populations in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u262	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet, greet and congratulate the more than 7500 petitioners who have made the struggle of Peniche council on access to primary health care a long and constant struggle, organized around the defense not only of Peniche hospital, but also of primary health care, which was possible to keep open at Peniche hospital, assuming the basic emergency service and a medical service, as well as the physiology service. First of all, I want to make it clear that currently the Peniche council is going through a serious situation with regard to access to health care, especially at the level of primary health care. About 45% of the population is without a family doctor, and the population of Atouguia da Baleia is the most severe, with only one backup physician responding to 6000 users. An urgent solution, in the shortest possible period of time, for the problems of access to health of the county of Peniche, with serious implications in the population at the preventive, curative and rehabilitation level, jeopardizing the constitutional right of access to health of this population. Mrs. Members, it is necessary to intervene and urgently in the current situation and to anticipate the difficulties that have arisen, including the retirement of family doctors, which is expected for the short term. This is a situation of shortage of resources which is not limited only to family doctors. It also extends to nurses and even to clinical secretaries. Currently, each nurse has an average of 2400 users with nursing care that goes to health extensions, with home care. Therefore, the nursing sector is also aging and, in the short term, several nurses will retire. The lack of response to primary health care, whether to residents of the municipality or to the so-called floating or seasonal population, causes this response of medical care to fall on the emergency service of the Peniche hospital, demonstrating once again the fragility and lack of investment in health in the council of Peniche. The lack of investment occurs not only in primary health care but also in Peniche hospital. That's why, sirs. Members, that the PCP brings to this House a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the guarantee of the right and access to health of the population of the municipality of Peniche, through the hiring of health professionals in need, including doctors and nurses of family, psychologists, technical assistants, operational assistants, to ensure family doctor and family health team to all users of the council of Peniche. It also recommends the provision of more health professionals to strengthen the various functional units of the West West ACES, the improvement of health care conditions in the Peniche hospital, at the level of the basic emergency service, and the maintenance of physiology and orthopaedic valences and the creation of new valences, including psychiatry, so important.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u265	It recommends the mobilization of funding sources for investment in the facilities and equipment of the Peniche hospital through the use of Community funds and the allocation of funds from the State budget for this purpose. Finally, it recommends the strengthening of the recruitment of health professionals to meet the needs and the creation of conditions for the establishment of health professionals, including doctors, nurses and clinical secretaries, in the Peniche hospital, and that it also considers the important professional, social and remuneration valorization, through the dignity of careers and the implementation of an exclusive commitment regime that guarantees working conditions and modernization of equipment. The people of Peniche can count on the PCP in this fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u266	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the draft resolutions of the Free Paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting, as has already been done by previous speakers, the petitioners and petitioners of the Peniche council, who bring us here not only an act of citizenship, but above all an alert motivated by the most basic need. When they tell us that in the parish of Atouguia da Baleia there is no family doctor, that means almost half of the municipality or perhaps more than half of the county of Peniche. That is why, in one of the two draft resolutions presented by the Free House in this debate, which recommends to the Government improvements in access to the National Health Service in the West, our first point recommends to the Government that "invest in order to establish the appropriate operating conditions at Peniche Hospital and the Personalized Health Care Unit in Peniche, in particular at its Atouguia da Baleia, Serra d'El Rei and Ferrel poles". It is a reality that, unfortunately, is not only restricted to Peniche. But it is also true that contributing to solving these problems in Peniche helps the entire region of the West. More than that, in the districts of Lisbon and Santarém and in the regions that are contiguous to the West, there is indeed a huge lack of health care. Therefore, we need a very large strengthening of health care in that region. Mrs Sara Velez of the PS, who spoke before me, mentioned that the Free presented here a project that has to do with another area of Leiria district, the Great Navy. It is true and it is important to explain why. Firstly, because the only Members in the Assembly of the Republic, the Free and the PAN, do not have the same agenda rights as the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u268	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u269	The opportunities to present draft resolutions like these are the occasions when other draft resolutions are scheduled and, therefore, we can associate ours. But I believe that it is certainly not depressing or wasteful for Peniche we will know that in the north of Leiria district there are also problems to solve. It has already been recalled here that the Great Navy is also a very populous region, where about 40 000 people live. It has a hospital in Leiria, but it serves over 200,000 people and also needs care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u270	The debate is about Peniche!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u271	This country is in the midst of help, solidarity and cohesion. In favour of the two draft resolutions of the Free, which I hope the PS, Mrs Sara Velez, will come to do, will help to solve the problems in the West, but also in the north of the Leiria district, in the Pinhal region.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u272	We now move on to the speeches of the parliamentary groups that have no initiatives. Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the 7581 subscribers of this petition, which alerts us to the constraints on access to health care in the county of Peniche. As you know, and as we can also see from the various legislative initiatives dragged to this petition, unfortunately the lack of access to health care is not only in Peniche. These constraints occur throughout the country, particularly in the entire region of the West, which has already been addressed here. As the Liberal Initiative has been affirming, defending and proposing, it reinforces that the approach in the area of health should be cross-cutting and with a view to the future. Solutions cannot always be random, made on the knee, and much less may be limited to closures of health units, due to lack of ability to retain professionals to keep them open. It is important to ensure predictability, but above all, it is important that no one is deprived of access to health care. The superior interest of people and their right of access, which is constitutionally guaranteed, cannot at any time be compromised by party interests, by strategic inability to manage and, much less, by ideological prejudices. The West region is, for many years, paradigmatic of the lack of strategic vision of successive governments, and the Socialist Party, having ruled 20 of the last 27 years, cannot shake the water from the hood.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u275	For years, no caution was given to the expected medical reforms that, as was evident, would leave populations unprotected, and the result is in sight of everyone. And, if this is a cross-sectional problem across the country, it becomes more serious when it impacts regions with older populations or whose population increases at certain times of the year, such as Peniche, the Great Navy or the West, in general. The inhabitants and tourists of the West cannot continue to be ignored by this government. They are promises of doctors who don't arrive and promises of hospitals who don't leave the paper. The country is full of incompetence and full of lies. And it is truly extraordinary to see the draft resolution that the PS brings to this debate, in which it even makes a quite reasonable picture of the various difficulties, but, Mr President, it is quite reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, who's been in the government for eight years? If you know the problems of the West so well, why don't you use your influence to solve these problems with the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u276	Nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u277	On the bills of the Left Block and PCP, again the magic formula: prejudices against the private sector and the exclusivity of doctors. And in the meantime, people are left unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Liberal Initiative, problems are solved with freedom of choice, for people and for health professionals. Our proposals had been approved to give a family doctor to all people, to implement the USF Model C, and many of the constraints in this region could be solved. And as for the location of the new hospital in the West, what we ask is to defend the interest of people to the detriment of any other interest. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u278	For the NAP, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners, as well as the Committee on Health Users of the Peniche Council, either for the work they have done, or for bringing us to debate. Before entering the particular topic, let me just say, Mrs.Jona Cordeiro, of the Liberal Initiative, that speaking in freedom of choice, when there is no option either in the private or in the public and when people do not have the same incomes, is to talk about what is effectively the social elevator, which has long been damaged in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u280	Go study!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u281	That is why the NAP puts itself next to the public supply, with regard to health. Because when we speak—in fact, it is impossible to remain indifferent to the absolutely high and frightening number—that more than 35% of the population in Peniche does not have a family doctor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u282	It is 45 %, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u283	... moreover, that more than 45 %, Mr. Member, of the population does not have a family doctor, we realize the importance of the National Health Service, health centres and we have public access to what must be a right of all our citizens. In fact, it is intolerable today, not only this ratio, but also that more than half of the investment that is devoted to health go, too, to private services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u284	Public or private doesn't care, they have to exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u285	... because this is an absolutely fallacious argument, when we look at the numbers and the investment that the state has just made. There has also been a debate about what might be the choice of a Western hospital. We know that a future solution will serve as part of the population, regardless of the location that is being discussed, but while the local and national problems are being discussed, the local and national problems remain unanswered and it is therefore essential to ensure that both Peniche and the other country have answers and solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u286	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u287	I shall conclude, Mr President. The NAP will be with those who present solutions in this debate and we will vote in favour of the proposals, not only for this problem, but for others.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u288	The debate on this petition has come to an end. I would like to thank you, on behalf of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners who had the kindness to be with us. It was a pleasure to have you with us. I will now give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel, who has important information to give to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u289	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills No. 681 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 676 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, and 682 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Resolution Project Nos 558 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 561 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 560 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 562 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 557 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-23.u290	Now, if you will allow me, I will read the agenda for the morning plenary, at 10 a.m., which has five points. The first point is from the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 61 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities and for Law Projects Nos 415 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme of municipal debt applicable to expenditure to deal with the damage caused by the full situations in December 2022, 615 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — At the end of the levying rate of occupation of the subsoil to consumers, 618 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and intermunicipal entities and 624 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishs the possibility of strengthening the funds of municipalities to ensure protection of protected areas, compliance with the provisions of the Climate Bases Act and the implementation of plans to promote affordable rent, accommodation for higher education or young lease, amending Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013. In the second point, the draft resolution No 501 / XV / 1 is discussed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the clarification of the scope of priority criteria for children covered by the Creche Felis programme, together with, in general, Bills Nos 626 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, in order to clarify the terms of the free frequency of day care and the priority of admission of children with siblings to attend day care covered by this measure and 628 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amends the law approving the progressive extension of the freeness of care at the Institute for Social Security, I.P. , ensuring compensation to families not contemplated, the Resolution Projects 510 / XV / 1 were also appreciated. a ( PSD ) — The territorial scope for the measurement of day care free vacancies is made at the level of parish and 515 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive extension of the free of charge of day care centres and lovers of the Institute for Social Security, I.P. of the third point is the joint discussion, in general, of Bill 485 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Place the costs incurred by the employer in contributions to social security and 616 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Alter the Labour Code, increases the information available to workers on behalf of others in the receipts of salaries. The fourth point of debate is petition No 331 / XIV / 3. a (Luís Manuel Marques Bugalhão and others) — Review and amendment of the military remuneration system! , together with, in general, the Bill No. 617 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases in the risk capital value of non-contributory life insurance for military personnel in humanitarian and peace missions outside the national territory and with Resolution Projects Nos 399 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines to ensure the effective, uniform and consistent application of the right to the accounting of service assessments to all ex-military persons after entering the Public Administration, 446 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the remunerative and social valuation of the Armed Forces military, 457 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Review of the remuneration regime of the armed forces, and 509 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the remuneration regime applicable to the military of the permanent frameworks and under contract and volunteering of the three branches of the Armed Forces. Finally, on the fifth point, we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. All the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. [[It was 17 hours and 59 minutes.]]
