ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. We are in a position to start our work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. As there is no record, we have already begun our work on the discussion of the rules that have been advocated for today's plenary session. Proposal 45 - C of the CFP for the addition of Article 20 is under consideration. o -A — Full accounting of all the time of service of careers and special bodies. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in the hands of the Assembly of the Republic to put an end to the injustice that affects thousands of special career workers, particularly teachers. The time worked must be counted, it cannot be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u4	It was six years, six months and twenty-three days that teachers were in schools and taught. This time has to be considered in your career. Teachers do not need empty words; they need their rights, their work and their careers to be recognized. This is how more teachers are attracted to the profession and this is how students are guaranteed to have teachers in all disciplines.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u6	It is fair, there are conditions for doing so, what has been lacking is the political will of the PS and the parties to its right. One cannot ignore the hypocrisy of the PSD, which now seeks to whiteen your responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u8	When in 2019, if he had not retreated, brought the teachers and voted against, giving the PS, today the problem would be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u10	Yes, it was the PSD that supported the PS so that all the time of service is not yet being accounted for for for progression.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u11	Good-bye!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u12	But neither can we ignore the demagogy of the Arrival, when many of its leaders were still in the PSD and CDS and, when they were in the government, they devalued their teaching career, promoted precariousness and unemployment, and came to invite teachers to emigrate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, we can solve this problem and account for all the time of service. It is not a matter of financial means, because there are them. Just see the Budget that wastes resources on tax benefits for economic groups, transfers of money to private groups and in public-private partnerships. It is a question of political choice. Injustice is not allowed to remain. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u13	To speak on the same article, Mrs.Jona Mortagua of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government wanted to make teachers the worst example. I wanted to tell the country that it did not negotiate with representatives of workers of the essential functions of the State — health, school — and we all saw the result. The recovery of teachers' time of service was and continues to be the only thing that can unlock a negotiation with teachers that so much lack the public school. Not recognizing the time worked by the teachers was and has always been an injustice, but it is also an irresponsibility right now, because the country needs qualified and valued teachers, the country needs a government that negotiates with the teachers, because we need teachers so that the public school can have a future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u15	To speak on the same article, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Education, Antonio Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, my response to the vain words that the government has been accused of having been, as I said yesterday, the following: teachers to progress since 2018, and now 16% of teachers are at the top of the career and a very small number of teachers in the initial indices, contrary to what happened at the time; teachers, to whom the career accelerator is applied, more than 5000 and during this year will be covered 12 000 ; teachers with home income support for those who have to travel to Lisbon and Vale do Tejo ; teachers, more than 8000, linked to the last competition; and a constant negotiation with all trade unions, even having been subject to an agreement regarding the linkage of one of these teachers' groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u17	Cuts aren't for accounting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u18	One thing is an accusation of empty words, another thing is the facts, and these are not empty, they are true facts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u19	Mr. Secretary of State has a request for clarification from Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u20	Mr President, Secretary of State, the facts are thousands of students without classes, because they lack teachers ; the facts are the conflict within schools, because the government does not negotiate with the unions ; the facts are teachers who camp, because they do not have accommodation when they are displaced ; the facts are teachers who pay to work and who cannot accompany their families and children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u21	And what did the Block do in the time of the PS? They put the PS there and forgot the teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u22	With regard to these facts, the government has done nothing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u23	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u24	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the facts are this: there are, as in every school year, some students to whom teachers are missing, because there have been students every year without teachers; and there has been negotiation, which took place every month, and there has also been agreement with the unions, as I said. These are the facts! To want to keep mixing things, to keep throwing sand for the eyes, is not the solution that we have and is not the way to respond to the country, which deserves our respect and deserves the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u25	They failed, they assumed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u26	To speak on the same article, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u27	What is the PSD position today? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u28	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, of course the PSD has been quite attentive...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u29	To vote next to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u30	...to all the instability that has happened in the education sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u31	That's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u32	Hypocrisy, Mrs. Paula Santos, is that you have supported the government during the management... [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] ... and never put the time of service as a condition for them to continue ruling. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] Therefore, as the PSD is attentive to all this situation that has been experienced, it is clear that we have done our work. In particular, in February this year, we held a legislative debate, among many other actions, where the government was recommended to negotiate with the trade unions the question of working time, and at the beginning of this school year we made a week devoted to education, where we also addressed this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u33	That should, since 2019, be resolved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u34	And unlike the Socialist Party, the PSD has a lot of respect for teachers and public school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u35	Notice, note!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u36	...knows that it is urgent to attract teachers to the career and knows that it is important to retain the teachers we have in our career and in our schools, motivated and with a decent career. Therefore, for the PSD, education is fundamental, that is why we know that leading is making choices and we have done them in the Azores and Madeira. Our commitment is, from 2024 onwards, we will count all the hours of service of teachers for five years, at a rate of 20 % per year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u37	We want the Portuguese to know that education is important to us. We will not continue to witness the degradation of our education system and our schools and we will do everything so that it is not normal to have thousands of students without teachers during the school year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u38	On the same article, to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Arrival Party submits a proposal to amend the State budget to 2024 which allows the full recovery of the hours of service of teachers. The process should be negotiated with teachers' unions up to a maximum of three years. Governing eight consecutive years and leaving the Ministry of Education in a chronic situation of financial imbalance is all that the sense of social and civic responsibility can never be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u40	Ah, what you guys want is to fire teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u41	The question is all the more sensitive when the country's largest socio-professional group is involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u43	We are talking about 150 000 professionals with medium and high education, scattered almost all the churches, municipalities and districts of the country. So it is Portugal that is at issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u45	The freezing of the hours of service of teachers and the poor wages constitute the cruel portrait of the abandonment of a whole society by the Narcissian political power, which only cares about itself and its own. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I no longer refer to indiscipline, bureaucracy and degraded schools, which martyr a predominantly female socio-professional group, for those who fill their mouths with the defense of women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Since April 2022 the party has recommended cuts in the intermediate bureaucratic machine of the Ministry of Education. The Minister of Education has taken more than one year to clarify that these costs represent 1% of the expenditure, but to date he has never clarified the size of the financial waste with extensive and bad curricula and schedules. Political power has sown in public schools a kind of TAP (Portuguese Air Transport ) every year paid at the expense of teachers' salaries and careers, at the expense of taxpayers. The blindness of the Socialist Party, the PCP, the Left Block and other left in relation to a proposal in which the Arrival has been insisting for more than a year, will remain for history as an absurd case of political pathology. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u46	To speak on the same article, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if anyone wants to know the difference that the Liberal Initiative makes in the Portuguese political scene, just look at our vote on proposals like this. Every time there are proposals that echo legitimate claims, but that hide their cost and also hide the legitimate rights of taxpayers, we will not embark on them; even in pre-election times, even in times when it would be easier to give everything to everyone, we will not embark on proposals that are clearly electoralists just to please certain sectors of the electorate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u48	Is this the first time we've introduced them?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u49	Teachers have the right to count their time of service; they will be-CL, but never based on proposals that don't even make the number. with us, no! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u50	Looks like this is the first time we've introduced them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u51	To intervene on the addition of Article 20. o -A, Mrs Paula Santos has just signed up to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it became very clear in this House who is actually next to the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u53	It's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u54	The CFP has always opposed this freezing and since the very first moment it has been defending that this right is indeed considered. It was clear that when it was possible to approve the proposal, the PSD gave its hand to the PS at a time when it did not have an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u55	At the time of truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u56	As for the Liberal Initiative, the contempt for workers and employees is clear, because what they want is to transfer public resources to the economic groups, those you defend here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u57	It's people's money! It's people, it's not state!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u58	...and do not defend the rights of workers and the rights of children and students in schools. [[PCP applause.]] As far as arriving, what makes it clear is that it seeks to conceal its position, and when many of its leaders were in the PSD, teachers were always attacked. [[Exactly!]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u59	who wants to solve this problem, who wants to put an end to this injustice and ensure the time of service to teachers and all workers in special careers? [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u60	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 21. o -A. To intervene on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, one of the legacy of the absolute majority of the PS will undoubtedly be, and is, the degradation of the SNS (National Health Service ), a planned, proposed degradation. We now have more than 30 emergencies with limitations, 1, 7 million people without a family doctor, the increase of waiting time for consultations and surgery and, indeed, the absolute majority of the PS managed to bring the country back when we didn't want to return. Now that the government they supported decided to resign, now that this project that they supported ended up in a political crisis, it is time to say, and it is now required that it stop executing the National Health Service. They've had enough these years of absolute majority. What is requested at this time — what professionals and users ask — is that they do not continue with the National Health Service degradation project, on the eve of a dissolution. at this moment, the government makes a trading simulation behind the trading simulation. They have been dragged for 19 months, with no intention of agreeing, just waiting for this to end. Meanwhile, the government transfers maternity to the private, opens primary health care to the private and therefore extends a whole red carpet to the health business. And the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group aligns in this theatre: in the morning, they defend the SNS, in the afternoon, lead the measures to bring and fix more health professionals for public service. He says he has a lot of money to invest, even there are budget surpluses, but he refuses all the measures that guarantee more doctors, nurses, technicians, and pharmacists. Therefore, the proposal on the table is very clear: 15% wage increase for all SNS professionals...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u62	Wow!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u63	... and 40 % for those who wish to work exclusively. It's simple, it means having more professionals in the SNS or, then, we have services permanently closed. The question is very simple: will you go or not, the Socialist Party, want to have more professionals or will you want to continue to have closed emergencies and less access to health? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u64	For an intervention on the same proposal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u65	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Left Block has a great deal of undoing to come here talking about "the legacy of the PS". Mrs. Deputy and Mrs. Members of the Left Block, you are part of this legacy! The dismantling of the SNS didn't start two years ago. No, the dismantling of the SNS began in 2015 when the extreme left attacked power, along with the PS. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So don't come here to talk about the legacy and degradation and try to wash your hands like Pontius Pilates, because you are involved in this degradation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u66	Without a doubt, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u67	...in this dismantling, in the chaos that exists today in the SNS. The Left Block, yes, also destroyed the SNS in the six budgets it let go. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, why did you not present this proposal to the Socialist Party as a red line so that these six budgets could be approved? Therefore they have not done so are responsible for what is now happening in the SNS. In fact, these careers need to be valued, but they are not just those of doctors:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u68	They're all professionals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u69	... are those of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, nutritionists, diagnostic technicians, medical emergency technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u70	They're all professionals! Read the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u71	They all need to be valued, but we have seen these eight years of government, which is not the left that values these careers. Therefore, at election time, at the time of the vote, the Portuguese will remember well what the left and the extreme left have been doing to the country in the last eight years and that has brought us to the worst month of ever SNS. Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u72	For an intervention on the same proposal, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Melo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that at the end of eight years there are 1 million and 700 thousand Portuguese without a family doctor. The Socialist Party is incompetent. It is incompetent because it says it has failed planning to all other governments — the governments of the Socialist Party and some of them supported by the left. The PS is negligent. This neglect of the Socialist Party affects, on a daily basis, the Portuguese and the sick. Again yesterday, because of the incompetence of the Socialist Party, they again failed negotiations with doctors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, health cannot wait and at the end of eight years, after Prime Minister Antonio Costa promised in this Parliament that in 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor, it is time to test cotton and we will have elections. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u74	It is that cotton, unlike the Socialist Party, does not deceive. No, you failed to fulfill this electoral promise and that is a mark, a failure of your governance: 1 million and 700,000 Portuguese without a family doctor, when in 2011 there were only one million Portuguese without a family doctor and the PSD would certainly solve the problem. Now it's back in our hands. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u75	On the same proposal, to intervene on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr John Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the increase in the remuneration of health professionals'salaries is urgent, necessary and possible, such as that of all workers in general. It is clear that the PCP also leaves an alert here. It is that for many of the occupational health groups this 15% increase now proposed by the Left Block may be insufficient, such is the devaluation of careers. Many of them have more than a decade of devaluation. This is why it is important to value these careers—I am speaking of nurses, operational assistants, pharmacists—in which clearly the increase of 15% is insufficient. In the case of nurses, I speak of parity to the superior technical career of the Public Administration. We therefore advocate, yes, the increase and valuation of wages in a general way for all workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u77	To speak on behalf of the Government on this proposal, Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Ricardo Mestre, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to leave here some of the reality of the SNS, because it has been mentioned as a negotiating disguise, we have talked about valuing professionals and I would like to highlight the 20 000 nurses who saw their paid position revised at the end of last year in the amount of EUR 80 million ; the 24 000 auxiliary technicians who will now move on to a new career as a health assistant technician; the 4,000 professionals with individual employment contracts who saw their performance in public functions, valued them at EUR 34 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to speak of the 3100 professionals of the Loures and Vila Franca de Xira hospital who had the equalization to the ACT ( Collective Labour Agreement) of the Public Administration, as an appreciation. I would also like to talk about negotiations with medical unions, because I have heard here of 15 % and I would like to remind you that the government, within the framework of full dedication, has a proposal for wage valuation of more than 40 % and that, in the generalization of the USF (family health units) of model B, it allows professionals to have wage valuations of more than 60 %. That's what we're doing, that's what reinforces the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u79	Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has entered the Bureau for a request for clarification. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u80	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the reality that Mr. Secretary of State has spoken is that we continue to have urgencys that are rotating, or provisionally, as the Government says. The reality is that we continue to have 1, 7 million citizens in our country who do not have access to a family doctor. The reality is that there is difficulty in accessing health services right now. The reality is that the Minister of Health, two months ago, said that he was very close to the agreement for now to continue to say that there is no agreement in sight. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, the reality is that the government cannot respond to. And the question remains the same: whether the Socialist Party will maintain this denial of reality or whether, on the other hand, it will vote on proposals that solve the problems of the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u81	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u82	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the reality is that the Left Block last year talked a lot about Model B USF and now it's gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u83	Ah! Ah! Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u84	And you know why? Because they're going to be widespread throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because the 250 teams that will pass the USF Model B are preparing their projects and, from January 1, 2024, they will move on to this model.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u85	What about the emergencies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u86	The reality is also the evolution that the government has made in negotiating with doctors and now we expect them to be the medical unions to come closer to the government's proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u87	Six budgets for this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u88	We now proceed to the discussion of the proposal of Article 35. o -A, registered to speak on this proposal, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the TAP case is perhaps the most flagrant case of disrespect for the money of others and for the money of the Portuguese. Without ever having asked anyone anything, without ever having entered that intention into any programme, without ever being suffocated, the government decided to bury in the TAP 3200 million euros of our money, your money, without knowing how to get out of there. And there has already been a decree that provided for the sale of the majority — it has been vetoed by Mr President of the Republic — and now in the PS, nor is it known what it is to sell, if the majority, if the minority. One thing is right, you won't get all the money back. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want electionism at this time? Put in your programs what you want to do to TAP and tell the Portuguese they won't see half the money back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u90	We say, Mr. Deputy has to read! It is clear to us that all the cent generated by the sale of TAP should be returned to the Portuguese. What Portuguese? All of us. This is the proposal of the Liberal Initiative; clear, as always. [[Congratulations from some Members of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u91	So, no one hits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u92	To speak on the same proposal on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u93	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, if it is undeniable that TAP is one of the largest strategic assets in the country, it is no less true that it is the largest cemetery of ministers in this government. [[CH's laughs.]] Otherwise, let's see: two ex-ministers of this pasta should be sitting on this bench, but they're probably not going on an election campaign, preparing to try again to disgrace the TAP, and another one is going through the corridors. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is too serious a matter to remain in the hands of the Socialist Party. A minister who authorizes compensation of half a million euros per SMS ( shortmessage service ) ; another minister who completely doesn't know the pasta ; and if this government comes to an end, this bench was full of former TAP ministers. This can't go on. The Socialist Party once again took on what was right, nationalized, degraded a strategic company and, nowadays, wanted to integrate it into an economic group. I just didn't know how, I just didn't know when, but, yes, I would. The TAP requires a sense of state, no need for more lightness, no need for the support of the extreme left to be completely sunk. TAP again needs, like other public companies, right-wing governments that know how to treat, how to take care, how to rehabilitate and how to air a company with the importance of TAP. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the moment of truth has come. The time has come for the left to say « we will never play on files of this importance ». The time has finally come for the right to give a new direction to a company that should be of much greater importance than the left assigns to it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u94	To speak on the same proposal on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u95	Mr. President, good morning, Dear colleagues, Mr. Members of the Government, Dear Citizens in the galleries, Mr João Cotrim Figueiredo, I must say that I was not expecting Mr Deputies, in the presentation of a proposal proposing that the product of the sale of TAP be distributed by all Portuguese equally—so if it is EUR 500 million per 10 million Portuguese, it gives each one 50 € — it still had, at last, the discharge of the electoralism of the others. [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] There is no more electoral proposal than this one. If it were applied to any other national asset, well, it would also be the same. We sold the Forests or the Desserts, made an increase for the Maderians and could, in addition to dinner, drink a cup of coffee next. It is not serious to come to talk about what is a national asset, which can still be valued. Just let the Liberal Initiative, which is certainly so attentive to the market, search any consultant in the aviation sector area. I have before me a report from the Gridpoint Consulting that TAP is one of the companies that can benefit most from the passage of part of its fleet, 20 % of it is narrow fuselage, and if it is for large fuselage planes, it means less emissions per passenger, more people for the same routes. This means that what the Liberal Initiative wants to do is to sell the « golden egg chicken», distribute a fever here, a little there, a thigh acoli, when there is a better idea: let the TAP develop, let the TAP give profit, as it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u96	He's making a profit at the expense of the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u97	This profit must, yes, be reverted to the country, and a centre of advanced knowledge in the energy transition of aircraft, in the passage to other fuels, in our connection to the rest of the world, as an advanced position of what the country can be: an economy of knowledge that generates value and distributes that value, but that does not decide immediately, at the first difficulty, to distribute this value by attack. Both rich Portuguese and poor Portuguese take the same 50 €, and TAP flew. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u98	You have the floor on the same article on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u99	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, thank you very much for making the argument for me because, if there is a reason why neither politicians nor parties nor the State should govern public companies, that reason is contained in your presentation. [[L. Protests.]] You're arguing if it's broad fuselage, if it's narrow fuselage, if it's going to spend less per passenger or not... None of us know! If there is industry in the world that is most volatile and that much loses in a year what wins in three is the aviation industry. I don't want the Portuguese playing planes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u100	Let's get her out of here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u101	If the Portuguese money has been invested in the company without asking them, it will be returned to the Portuguese without having to ask. It's as simple as this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u102	Nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u103	It's 50 €! He can't have dinner with Isaltino!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u104	I don't want you guys, I don't want myself to run aviation companies. So it's all said. That is why the State does not have to get into the economy, because, above all in civil aviation, none of us know enough to do what you say. Therefore, the TAP must be returned, yes, and the money to the Portuguese! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u105	He's going to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u106	They don't give dinners of 50 € to Isaltino!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u107	Quiet request to the House. On the same article, Mr Bruno Dias now intervenes on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the truth is that if it had been the Liberal Initiative to decide, we were no longer having this discussion because there was no TAP anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u110	It is that the Liberal Initiative, from the outset - indeed, as the right, in general - was directly against the capitalisation of the TAP and the intervention to save it, which made the TAP exist today, to the great disgust of the Liberal Initiative. We, unlike the right, continue to say that TAP is needed by the country and that it has a strategic role for our development and sovereignty. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] TAP is important for our country and will be needed in the future. [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] Now, what the IL now presents to us, perhaps adhering to the new fashion of the motorcycle,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ...is dismounting the TAP and giving each Portuguese a pet of an airplane as a souvenir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u111	Do you prefer the pieces? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u112	They want to fight the flag airline, they want to deliver to each of us a piece of a reactor, to remind us that, in time, there was a strategic flag airline for our development, for the connection to communities and autonomous regions, for the creation of wealth in the country. We do not align ourselves with the strategy of destroying fundamental pillars of the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u113	Don't you? Oh, my God! Here we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u114	This conversation all serves to try to disguise what is evidence: it is that the arrive, IL, PSD and PS agree to privatize the TAP. We're not. [[PCP applause.]] [[They're all the same!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u115	It's the fashion of Arafat's canvas! [[CH and IL protests and PCP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u116	Quiet request to the House. We will have a very long meeting, which requires patience and discipline from all. We are now going to the debate on proposal 892 - C, adding an article 42. o-B — Replacement of the submarine cable system. You have the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Socialist Party yesterday plunged the proposal of funds for the replacement of the Inter-Othile fiber optic ring of the Azores, a fundamental infrastructure. Today, the proposal is a lawyer, because it is the last opportunity of the Socialist Party to do what needs to be done and not leave the Azorians in a critical situation like the one in which they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u118	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u119	I cannot fail to address another subject: TAP. We saw an impulsive extremist Pedro Nuno Santos deliver 3200 million euros from the Portuguese and now the PS does not have the courage to predict his return as a recipe in this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u120	You need to talk to Enough. Aren't they your partners?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u121	This political option, under extreme-left pressure, disgraces the country, disgraces the Portuguese, takes money away from the companies, takes money away from the economy and does not return it or guarantee its return, all by a single option of an impulsive extremist named Pedro Nuno Santos. [[PSD applause.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u122	To speak on the same proposal, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has so far been quite illustrative. The opposition, for example, talks about education, but does not talk about students. It does not say, for example, that the dropout rate in the last eight years has fallen to half. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's all over!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u124	He talks about negotiation with the teachers and forgets that a part of the service time has already been recovered and that an acceleration mechanism has been found in the progression for those who were most penalized. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u125	Forget that there are teachers who were invited by the PPD / PSD to emigrate and that for them there is no recovery of service time possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They talk about health and forget that we have a new Health Bases Act ; they forget that we have a SNS Statute, an Executive Director ;... [[For what?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u126	... forget that we are negotiating increases with both doctors and nurses; forget that we have more professionals, more doctors, more nurses; forget that Portugal has made an incredible effort and that it was this SNS, at the decisive moment of the pandemic, that it was next to the Portuguese, that served the Portuguese and that it will continue to serve the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u127	They've shut down urgents!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u128	But there is more: they speak of TAP and of EUR 3, 2 billion, but it must be said that the TAP you speak of is the one that today, through the intervention of the PS government, continues to export services and hire thousands of Portuguese companies, to continue to take Portuguese communities to the territories and to come to Portugal. TAP continues to be a fundamental hub of national tourism, it remains a company in which, today, workers already receive their salaries in full and it remains a company that, above all, contributes positively to the State budget, with positive results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] My lords, on the right, there is only one word: destroy. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] When we invest in the public, the solution is private, that is, when we want better public services, the idea is to destroy public services and transfer to the private. When we want a public TAP as a central and strategic element—even if it is integrated into large international groups and alliances—you say it is not enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u129	Will you go there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u130	He's here now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u131	That is why the only positive speech in this Chamber is that of the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what is needed: we have to move the country forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u132	But will the PS stop privatizing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u133	You just make the country go back. The country won't stop and won't stop on 10 March! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u134	Pinoquio has spoken!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u135	We are now going to the debate on proposal 1806 - C, adding an article 80. o -A — Renewal of the CONVERTE + programme. For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Costa Matos has the floor. Quiet request to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u136	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, in the coming months we will hear — perhaps, with all this noise — much of what is the country we want. But when we arrive to some voters, when we arrive, above all, to my generation, this seems more like a speech than "who gives the most". Proposals are not lacking, but, in fact, what is often lacking is the courage to do. If we were to see, in the last eight years, when it came time for us to have cheaper passes, free manuals, free daycare, reform of labour laws, raise the minimum wage, some, such as the PS, dare to do and others voted against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] In fact, it does not seem to be very eloquent here to criticize the country we have: we really need to know how to build the country we want to have, and this budget is the corporation of being consequent. Today, those who closed residences say that there are no residences, but we register EUR 520 million in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and the work is underway throughout the country. It is therefore not to let students wait and increase the support of the accommodation supplement, which in 2015 was €73 and now, at most, exceeds €400. Those who cut bags know that, today, they reach younger, earlier. Those who sent young immigrants know that today we have an economy that grows 10 times higher, wages 40 % higher, and we do not expect the invisible hand of the market to give tax incentives to businesses to increase income. This budget, Mr President, with the proposed amendments in the field of speciality, is how we can go further: to regulate rates and emoluments, true hidden tips; to support students in curricular stages, in the costs of accommodation and travel; to increase the travel supplement we had created two years ago, from €250 to €400; to all families, to increase support in the income of displaced students by €100; to combat precariousness not only with laws, but also with a financial incentive to convert term contracts into non-term contracts. Mr President, the opposition can fill the mouths of all that is missing, but one should not speak out in full, because those who are full are even the Portuguese, full of those who speak, speak, but then do nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u137	Eight years! Eight years and not one residence has opened!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u138	The Portuguese want solutions, and this Budget is full of solutions for my generation. That's why promising is very easy, but doing is different. Doing is right here with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u139	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, yesterday a proposal was sent by the Socialist Party so that liberal professionals — who have their own specificities — could see them studied and covered by the law specificities so that they could in fact exercise their rights of kinship. It is true that it is recognized in the law that these professionals may enjoy days of parental leave, but in practice the law is often not possible to be applied by its specificities. We want you to take steps forward and we have put forward a proposal just so that we can take this step, so that we can have a consensus and give a clear signal that we will no longer admit that we will not be told at meetings, assemblies, forums, « I was unable to exercise my right of kinship », « I did not have the right », « I could not have a planned pregnancy. These are things that I think must have a broad consensus and are not acceptable in Portugal today. Liberal professionals have specific realities, compared with workers on behalf of others, such as income volatility and breastfeeding. It is important, therefore, to go to the ground, to recognize these difficulties and to understand how we can, consensually, adapt. I would also like to say that in other countries this has already been done, and I will give you examples: the days of leave are equal and the way of calculating the reference income is equal; given the greater volatility of liberal professionals, there is the possibility of considering two periods. A number of countries have done so, it seems sensible. Can't we talk about it? I think so. For example, during the breastfeeding period, there is a reduction of time—and good! — for women, so that they can enjoy their rights. For liberal professionals, this implies a direct reduction in income. Other countries have already solved this, and this is what we propose: let's look at this issue. I conclude by recalling that this is something that, in this House, had a broad consensus, except for the Socialist Party's vote, but there is now an opportunity to recognize, take this step forward and give this signal. I therefore urge the Socialist Party to change its sense of vote so that we can have a broad consensus in this House. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u141	They're gonna change!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u142	They're being urged!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u143	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, decent employment is to have a link, salary and social protection. CONVERTE +, which comes from 2019, was a counterbalance at the turnover rate, which penalized companies with contracts over the average. Business support has moved forward, companies have been penalized and now it is known that it will never move forward. Two pesos, two measures. But, above all, this flower in the Socialist Party's appeal does not cover that the young employment standard remains precarious and that there is structural precariousness, which is the precariousness of income, which is called low wages and wage underestimation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u145	We now move on to the discussion of proposal 727 - C, adding an article 81. o-B — Extension of the free access and frequency to day care facilities of public higher education institutions. To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u146	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, we have heard here the words of the Socialist Party, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias and Mr. Miguel Costa Matos. One says it's very full, the other says the opposition only destroys. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias focused on all the criticisms, but forgot the criticisms that the PS had received from his candidate to Secretary General Pedro Nuno Santos,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u147	My candidate? Ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u148	... when I went to a television program and criticized the State budget that you are now trying to change in a hurry just because there are elections. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Member, the challenge is to respond to the criticisms of Mr. Member of your bench Pedro Nuno Santos,... [[PS protests.]] ...because what we see is that the Socialist Party is focused on itself, only. So here the tone of speech is not what destroys; the tone of speech is what the PS did not build, it is what the PS does not do. [[All right!]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u149	You grew up in colleges. You now want to grab and take the students who are there, relatives of the workers-students, the teachers, the cleaning staff and the secretary, want to withdraw their right to attend day care and put these day carers like you raised the same as everyone else. What will be the condition? Is it the condition of workers today that they have to stop working to take care of their children at home? The same will happen to the workers-students. The same will happen to these workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u150	Don't you realize you're talking about a PS measure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u151	The PSD proposal fixes this. Sir, would you like to respond to criticism? Approves the PSD proposal. Mr. Deputy, would you like to respond to the Democratic Social Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u152	120,000 children!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u153	So, maybe, let's count on what? With something very simple: the Socialist Party is counting on the Democratic Social Party to correct all its ashtrays. For that, Mr. Deputies, we are here to build. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is full, you know what? of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u154	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here today, we have at least two proposals on higher education and the NAP cannot fail to mention that, although we have seen yesterday with pleasure a proposal for the Safe University, we need to go much further because we cannot, on the one hand, see the temptation of those who, outside electoral moments, try to privatize education, as they do with TAP and with so many other strategic companies in our country, and on the other hand forget that there is direct and indirect social action that needs to be brought to the students and that we must also not let go of other measures, such as those which the NAP has seen fall yesterday. I would like to highlight at least two questions. It is sad that yesterday the NAP saw the PS, hand-held with the Liberal Initiative, chumbar our proposal for freezing the price of social meal in universities next year. This means that thanks to the PS next year, students will already have, in higher education, the price of their social meal to increase, they would not have enough to increase the costs of accommodation, transport, among so many other expenses that they have to face, in addition to the bureaucracy inherent to their displacement and often to affect social support. Then, secondly, it is also regrettable to have seen the PS join the PSD to prevent the elimination of fees and emoluments for admission to doctoral tests in the coming school year. The regulation of the rates which the PS approved, being positive, does not, however, solve the whole problem. And you might come to say it's a way, but the way doesn't have to stay here, it should go further. If Socialist Youth comes here to say that it defends students, then it should defend all students and not just a few. in this measure, the NAP presented a clear counterpart, so that we do not wait for a regulation that, perhaps, will never come. I would like to know what the government will then implement, because next year thanks to PS and PSD, there are students who will spend more than 700 € to pay their doctorate test. In particular, I ask the younger members of the Socialist Party's bench if they think this is fair, that a young man pays more than 700 € for a doctoral test. I think they'll agree that it's not fair, but we didn't see them voting next to the NAP yesterday. Nevertheless, I would like to warn you that today the PS has the opportunity to give its hands to students and to correct some mistakes, including by accompanying proposals from the most basic justice, such as extending the social pass under23 to all students and not only students from undergraduate courses. at this time, as there is, this program only covers those who are enrolled to obtain a degree in higher education. It does not, for example, cover students in vocational courses. It does not seem to us that this is at least fair, beyond the age criterion, because a student who is, for example, in a medical course ends at 24 years of age and benefits from this measure, while a 25-year-old is already completely excluded. The NAP presented very clear measures, such as extending the freeness of passes to all young people up to 25 years and not only students, and also presented the measure so that at least young people from professional courses can have this freeness. As we know, there are many young people who can't rent a room in the places where they study. We talk about exorbitant prices, which rise up to 300 €, 400 € and 500 €. This means that they continue to have to live at their place of residence, moving daily, daily, to the cities, to study. Finally, I cannot stop making a reference to conclude. This Monday we celebrated the 34 years of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Throughout the country, thousands of children from kindergartens and schools mobilized, through the National Day of the Pajamas, to defend the right of children to grow up in a family. The NAP cannot fail to speak of a set of measures proposed in this Budget which guarantee the rights of children. Even today, we will vote on a proposal that is very important: the arrest, prevention and mitigation of violence against children, which goes through the allocation of money for the development of measures, projects and prevention actions that combat harmful traditional practices, including female genital mutilation. As for early and forced child marriages, we also propose that a project for healthy practices be approved next year to put an end to them. And we also need to extend access to free daycare to all children, even when parents meet the requirements and there are no breaks. We could not but mention this day, even though we are obviously not on the particular day, because, indeed, the Budget is made of options and, in the midst of all these political options, that there is at least one priority: the best interest of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u156	To speak, Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education, Pedro Nuno Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue of fees and emoluments is obviously a concern to the Government. in this sense, the government has made a mapping of all the fees and emoluments charged by higher education institutions and what happens is that there is, in fact, a great disparity of values for the same type of service, and there are also differences, there are situations where there are institutions that charge and others that do not charge for this service. It therefore seems absolutely clear to us that there is a regulatory effort to be made, in cooperation with the institutions, respecting their autonomy. In fact, it seems to us that the Socialist Party's proposal makes sense, so that a path along 2024 is made to regulate and clarify those charges and emoluments that have a clear justification and those that clearly do not have, and that value must also be adjusted. This, in fact, is a budget where it is clearly necessary to do so, because it marks a significant strengthening of the public funding of higher education institutions: more than EUR 138 million, more than EUR 10, 7 % of the increase in the allocation of higher education institutions. There is therefore a capacity to accommodate these changes in the budget of higher education institutions. This is also a budget — let me say — that it strengthens, in a significant way, the Social Action Fund: more than 26 % of the increase in tax revenue for the Social Action Fund, which ensures that in 2024 more than we will double the budget for taxes in social action compared to 2022. This is the Budget that allows you to pay a supplement of accommodation to students, in line with the value of the average cost per room, on the market. This is the Budget which enables you to strengthen the transport supplement for students moving pockets. This is, therefore, a budget that clearly has concerns for strengthening higher education and for strengthening, in particular, the support for those who have the most shortage and need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u158	Mr. Secretary of State has a request for clarification, but he has no time to answer. I wonder if the Left Block keeps the order.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u159	Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u160	He'll make an intervention first. So we first have Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, who has the floor, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u161	Mr President, the Secretary of State had, a little while ago, what I thought was a lapsus linguæ, when he said that we had to regulate how universities charge for this service. If it is not a lapse, it is a huge difference of understanding between the Free Bank and the Government Bank, because what universities provide is not a service, or is not just a service. What universities do is they are integrated into a mission that benefits the whole country. It's not an individual, a consumer, who will pay for a service. It is someone who has been doing a master's thesis for years; it is someone who has been doing the doctorate for years, who has been in precaution, who has given up opportunities because he wanted to qualify — and that is good for the country. And when he reaches the end of the marathon goal, he says: "Pay more this, plus X, here twice as much, there three times more, to defend the thesis in which you have been working for years. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, what we should do is exactly the opposite, as the Book proposed, since the beginning of this legislature. We have proposed that anyone who has a credible training plan should have support from the State and may even have access to unemployment benefit, to end that master's or doctoral thesis, which will then benefit all of us, because it is the only way this country goes up on the scale of value and pay higher wages, which then give taxes that allow them to have excellent public services and much stronger social security. I am sorry that at the end of this Parliament, we have never talked about this. In fact, I am also sorry that we have never really talked about reforming the model of higher education financing, without which this country will never be a fair country, because it ends up being a country where the right—in particular the Liberals—is complaining a lot about taxes, but where most of the taxes will benefit those who are already richest. Public services, including university, will benefit those who are already richest, when we should have a university funding system that would pass through a tripod, in which part of the economic activity, the taxes that are collected on it, serve laboratories, libraries, future buildings, in a strategic fund for higher education. The State budget would pay the current expenditure and there would be, through the taxation of those who are richest, those who are in the highest percentage of income, the creation of a support fund for higher education students, to pay the scholarships, to pay the meals, to pay the expenses with books, to pay the travel expenses. I believe that everyone, like the vast majority of us here and that we benefit from public higher education, if we are on a higher income scale, would have great pride and a great willingness to help those who are now reaching university and need our help in order to be able to study. For those who arrive at the university—and perhaps the first son or daughter of your family to do so—the sad truth is that today, because we never really discussed a model of funding that would allow you to abolish the tips, many of these people will be on the way. It's bad for them, but it's bad for the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u162	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the ambition of this government is to regulate the delivery rates of thesis. There were times when we were negotiating the way to the end of the tips...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u164	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u165	...and the public investment necessary for the propines to disappear and cease to be a frequency obstacle of higher education. This path was definitely shaken when it comes to, as has already been said, college students not as an investment, not as a public service, but using the user-payer principle. It is business socialism, socialism for entrepreneurs, of which Mr. Miguel Costa Matos spoke, who treats students as clients of an institution, a company and not as beneficiaries of a universal public service to which we all have the right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus exhausted the first item on our agenda, so we will proceed to the vote. I request the services which open the electronic quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any of you or Mr present had difficulty registering your presence electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u167	Mr President, I have not yet been able to open the system and proceed to my registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u168	It is registered manually, Mrs. With a little delay, Mr Miguel Iglesias is also manually registered. Madam Secretary of the Bureau is so focused on the votes that she has forgotten to register, but she is public and well-known for her presence in the Chamber. I ask the services to close the electronic quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum to vote. I ask for all patience and maximum silence for this undertaking. We begin by voting on proposal 1726 - C of the PS, adding an article 14. o-B — Implementation of a pilot project to create integrated services for children who are victims of crimes, inspired by the Barnahus model. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 45 - C of the CFP for the addition of Article 20. o -A — Full accounting of all the time of service of careers and special bodies. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u169	What about the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u170	That's how it looks!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u171	The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1155 - C, of the Left Block, on the addition of Article 21. o -A — Increased remuneration for workers of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u172	They're violent votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u173	Let us now vote on proposal 554 - C of the PSD, adding an article 22. o -A — Increased coverage of family doctors. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L.]] [[BE's protests.]] We shall proceed with the vote on proposal 440 - C of the Kingdom of Spain, with an addition to Article 24. o -A — Recovery of all time of service in teacher career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u174	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u175	Mr President, it is to ask that paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the proposal just announced be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u176	There's no opposition, so we'll do it. Let us begin with the vote on paragraph 1 of that proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] The vote on paragraph 2 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] We are now voting on paragraph 3 of that proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u177	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u178	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u179	Mr. President, it is to make a correction. I am very sorry, but in the vote on proposal 554 - C of the PSD, to add an article 22. o -A, the sense of vote of the Free is against and not in favour, as was erroneously expressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u180	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I note that the result of the vote does not change with this correction. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1002 - C of the CFP to delete Article 26. o — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members if we can vote together in paragraph 1, paragraphs ( a), ( b ), (c ) and (d ) of paragraph 2, the body of paragraph 2, paragraph 3, (4), (5) and (6) of the bill. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, so let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the PSD were adopted against the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and IL and the NAP abstentions.]] We are now voting on proposal 943 - C1, of the Liberal Initiative, to add Article 35. o -A — Returns to citizens the amounts obtained with the privatisation of TAP. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes in favour of the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] We then vote on proposal 892 - C of the PSD, adding Article 42. o-B — Replacement of the submarine cable system. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u181	We proceed with the vote on proposal 358 - C of the Kingdom of Spain, which eliminates Article 49. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] I wonder if we can vote together on all the issues and points of Article 49. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, so let's vote. [[Votes against the CH and the PCP and abstentions from the PS, IL, BE and L were voted in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We now have to vote on Article 50. o — Funds available and entities with payment without delay in the local subsector. I wonder if we can vote on the article together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u182	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u183	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u184	Mr President, if it is useful for us, we can vote on paragraphs 1 to 6 and after paragraphs 7 to 10.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u185	All right. If there's no opposition, we're going to do that. We shall vote on Article 50 (1) to (6). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CFP and the NAP were adopted, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, IL, BE and L.]] We are now voting on paragraphs 7 to 10 of that Article. [[Votes against the CH and the PCP and abstentions from the PS, IL, BE and L were voted in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We proceed with the joint vote on Article 51 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ). o — Reduction of late payments. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, CH and PAN were adopted, votes against BE and abstentions from PSD, IL, PCP and L.]] The vote on Rule 52 shall follow. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decision or rescue of delegation or concession contract. I wonder if we can vote on all the issues and points of this article together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u186	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u187	Mrs. Paula Santos, do your fracture there. Yours, not of itself, but of the article.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u188	If it were, it was a split!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u189	Mr President, we wanted to vote together on paragraph 1 ( b) and 8 ( 8 ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u190	In accordance with the proposal of the fractured subject, we shall then break the body of paragraph 1 ( a ) and ( b ) and the body of Article 52 ( 2 ) and (3) to (7) first. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L were adopted.]] We now vote together on paragraph 1 (b) and Article 8(8) of the proposed law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the PAN were adopted, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD, IL, BE and L.]] We then voted on proposal 994 - C of the CFP replacing Article 53 ( 1 ). o — Decentralisation Fund and financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] I wonder if we can vote together on Article 53 points and numbers. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u191	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u192	Mr Pedro Pinto, please indicate how you want to proceed with this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u193	We wanted to vote separately on points ( a) to (d) of Article 53 ( 1 ) and the body of Article 53 ( 1 ). or, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u194	We shall then vote together on Article 53 ( a ), ( b ), ( c ) and ( d ), Article 53 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and IL, the NAP and the L.]] The vote on the Map referred to in Article 53 ( 2 ) and Article 53 ( 2 ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the PSD, the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the CH, the IL and the L.]] We are moving forward to the vote on proposal 897 - C of the PSD, in the part where paragraph 9 is added to Article 53. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 897 - C of the PSD, in the part where paragraph 10 is added to Article 53. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We move on to the bill to vote on Rule 54. o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u195	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u196	Mrs Paula Santos, break the article there...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u197	Mr President, we only want to vote separately on paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u198	Paragraph 2 in its paragraphs and body?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u199	Yes No. 2, everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u200	Then, at the request of the CFP, we shall first vote points ( a ) and ( b ) of Article 54, as well as the body of Article 54 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the IL and the PCP and the abstentions of the PS, CH and L were adopted with votes in favour of the PS, BE and PAN.]] We proceed with the vote on Article 54 (1), (3) and (4). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, against the IL and abstentions of the PS and the CH were adopted.]] We turn to Article 55. o — Municipal Emergency Fund, on which we have to vote on proposal 14 - C of the NAP, in the part in which it replaces paragraph 1. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We now vote on Article 55 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE and L, votes against CH and abstentions against IL, the CFP and the NAP.]] We shall now vote on Article 55 (2). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, IL and the CFP.]] We shall vote on proposal 14 - C of the NAP, in the part in which it replaces Article 55 ( 3 ). o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We now vote on Article 55 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE and L, votes against CH and abstentions against IL, the CFP and the NAP.]] We shall then vote on paragraph 4 of the same article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the NAP and the abstentions of the CH, the IL, the PCP and the L.]] We are also voting on Rule 57 of the bill now. o — Urgent and unsatisfied expenditure. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L, against CH and the abstention from IL.]] We continue with Article 58. o — Settlement of Polis companies. There is no opposition, voting jointly on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the same. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN and L, votes against CH and IL and BE abstentions.]] We continue with Article 61. o — Budget forecast of revenue from the municipalities resulting from the sale of buildings, and we will start by voting on paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against IL.]] We now vote on paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against CH and IL were adopted.]] We turn to Article 62. o — Loans from municipalities for housing and urban rehabilitation operations. We voted for proposal 997 - C of the CFP replacing Article 61 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We are now voting jointly on Article 62 (1), (2) and (3). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, against the CH, IL and the PCP and with abstentions from the PSD and the L.]] Next, as well as the bill, we vote on Rule 63. o — EIB line PT2020 and PT2030 - Authorities. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] We continue with the vote on Rule 64. o — Transfer of resources from the municipalities to the parish. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 65. o — Deduction of transfers to local authorities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] Article 66 is hereby followed. o — Agreements on the regularisation of debts of local authorities, on which we voted on proposal 359C-1 of the Kingdom of Spain, to the part where it replaces paragraph 1. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We now have proposal 645 - C, tabled by the honourable Members. PSD Members Dinis Ramos, Sara Madruga da Costa and Patrícia Dantas, replacing Article 66 ( 1 ). o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We are now voting on proposal 985 - C of the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 66 ( 1 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We can now vote on Article 66 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the NAP were adopted.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are holding mini meetings in this plenary, please do it outside, because I am losing my focus and I can make mistakes, and I am not supposed to do so. Let us now vote on Article 66 ( 7 ) and ( 8 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, BE and L and abstentions of the PSD, CH, IL, CCP and NAP were adopted.]] We now vote on Article 66 ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, CH, BE and L and abstentions to PSD, IL, CCP and NAP.]] We are now voting on proposal 359 - C2, in the part in which Article 66 ( 10 ) is deleted. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We then vote on proposal 985 - C of the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 66 ( 10 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now vote on Article 66 ( 10 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, CH, BE and L and abstentions to PSD, IL, CCP and NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 985 - C of the CFP, which replaces Article 66 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote on Article 66 ( 11 ) and ( 12 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the NAP were adopted.]] There's some noise in the hall coming from the galleries, so I ask the gentlemen. Officers of the authority who inform citizens that they must watch quietly to avoid disrupting the progress of the work. We shall then vote on proposal 985 - C of the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 66 ( 13 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall therefore vote on Article 66 ( 13 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, CH, BE and L and abstentions to PSD, IL, CCP and NAP.]] We now call on the bill to vote on Rule 67. o — Increase in margin of indebtedness. If there is no opposition, we vote on Article 67 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the IL and the NAP.]] We moved on to Article 80. the -A, with the vote on proposal 982 - C1, submitted by IL, which adds an Article 80. o -A — Ensure protection in relationality to liberal professionals. The Liberal Initiative calls for a point vote and Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva calls for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u201	Mr President, having been requested by the Government, and the Socialist Party, that our proposal be broken down, and therefore Article 80. The vote on the other side of the article means that we do not oppose this and that the vote on the amendment can be carried out in an unbundled way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u202	Do the study! What you guys want is the study, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u203	Just for everyone to have a notion, what does it mean to be disaggregated? Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u204	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the proposal of the Liberal Initiative aims at two amendments, one which is the addition of Article 80. the -A and the other which is the addition of Article 192. o -A. at present we are voting only on the first part on the addition of Article 80. -A. That's what needs to be clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u205	Understood, Mr. Deputies. Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva does not need to speak, but Mrs. Paula Santos asks for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u206	Mr President, when there was disaggregation, he asked that the vote on this proposal could be the last of our votes today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u207	There is no objection, so we will, as long as the honourable Member does the favor of reminding me. We shall then proceed to the vote on proposal 1806 - C, submitted by the PS, which shall add Article 80. o -A — Renewal of the CONVERTE + programme. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions from CH, IL and BE.]] We are now voting on proposal 727 - C, tabled by the PSD, to add Article 81. o-B — Extension of the free access and frequency to day care facilities of public higher education institutions. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1716 - C of the PS, adding an article 110. o -A — Rates and emoluments in higher education. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP, the votes against the CFP and the Abstentions of BE and L.]] Now, then, let's go back to Article 80. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u208	Mr President, I would ask you to leave this vote for the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u209	Mrs. Member, we're at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u210	Mr President, I asked for only one more minute to confirm the breakdown.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u211	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Height to drink some water. [[Pause.]] Let us then vote on proposal 982 - C1, of the Liberal Initiative, in the part in which Article 80 is added. o -A — Ensure protection in relationality to liberal professionals. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We shall therefore end today's votes and move on to the third item on the agenda. Before that, even with regard to the votes, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u212	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u213	Don't you? It's a precious thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u214	This addition will be voted on when we vote on the proposals relating to Article 192. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u215	Let's give the specialists some time. Mrs Jamila Madeira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u216	Mr President, the proposal of the Liberal Initiative covered two articles, Article 80. o -A and Article 192. o -A. The vote script was already built like this, i.e. when we are voting on the proposals relating to Article 80. o, the addition of Article 80. -A arises with the proposed amendment in the part corresponding to Article 80. o -A, so the proposal is marked as 982 - C1. Now your proposal 982 - C2 must arise, when the part concerned is voted on 192. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u217	It's the government you asked for! It was the same for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u218	The interpretation of the Bureau, for it to be recorded, is that, from the time the proposal of the Liberal Initiative was adopted, we created an Article 80. o -A, therefore, is not worth voting, because it would be a redundancy. Let us, then, continue the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No 109 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u219	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u220	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u221	Mr President, it's just to make it clear that I couldn't register recently. I came here to register for 30 seconds after I finished the quorum check.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u223	Mr President, I cannot register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u224	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u225	Mr. President, it was about saying the same thing. Mr President knows that I was here at ten o'clock, because I made an intervention and talked about the cotton test. But for reasons I already made it to the Bureau, it was not at the time of registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u227	Mr President, it was also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. So, let's not discuss here the concept of statistical threshold. And as a prize for patience, which is the most important political quality in these days of discussion in specialty and voting in plenary, the Bureau records these four...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u229	Mr President, it was still for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u230	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We now begin the third item on our agenda. Therefore, within the framework of Article 111. that of the bill, we turn to proposal 464 - C, submitted by the PCP, to add an article 111. o -A — Strengthening school social action in compulsory public education. To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor. I ask silence to all. [[Pause.]] Mr. Alfredo Maia, let's give a little time for the hosts to reorganize. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u231	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Members, Article 74. the Constitution of the Republic states that "All have the right to education with the right to equal access opportunities and school success. Do not keep on seeking. ” School Social Action is an instrument through which the State guarantees this equality, and therefore the CFP values it. With the rampant degradation of family living conditions, it becomes more imperative to strengthen it. Therefore, we are again presenting proposals: to change the steps of the School Social Action, covering a greater number of students; to increase the values of the participation of school material; and to free meals, fruit and milk for all. All school visits must also be free of charge. No student can be excluded from the possibility of accessing spaces, places and achievements, and enjoying them in conditions of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u233	This is also the way equity is promoted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u234	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u235	And that is also why we propose the guarantee of free acquisition of school material and exercise sheets, which continue to be a burden on families. With regard to higher education, we would also like to talk about propines, rates and emoluments. Because it is the duty of the State to ensure access to the various degrees of higher education, the CFP insists on the proposal for the elimination of propines — and not on its regulation, Mr Secretary of State — of rates and emoluments. An essential condition for the democratization of higher education is the guarantee of accommodation for the 119 000 students displaced. The Government should ensure the implementation and improvement of the National Plan for Higher Education Housing ( PNAES ), in fact, the result of a proposal from the CFP. The 26 772 beds in student homes for 2026 are insufficient, as they correspond to only 22, 5 % of the needs. The CFP therefore proposes strengthening the financing of the Plan by 2026 to EUR 447 million, in addition to the 70 million announced this year; and also proposes identifying public buildings and equipment that can be mobilised in the creation of residences. At the level of Social Action School in higher education, the CFP advocates the increase in the housing supplement; the extension of the criteria for access to scholarships, covering, of course, more students; the extension of the automatic scholarship to students in professional technical courses; and also the guarantee of the provision of social meal in all canteens and the setting of the meal price in the canteens of higher education. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u236	I would like to congratulate Mrs. Minister, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Continuing further in the discussion of Article 111. the, we have proposal 987 - C1, submitted by the IL, to add an article 111. o -A— Simple contracts and family support development. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, education is fundamental to training free people, promoting equal opportunities and making the social elevator, stalled for too long in our country, finally working again. More educated societies are freer societies with greater potential for growth and socio-economic development. That is precisely why the Liberal Initiative, in this State budget, presented measures for education, encouraging it in this case by tax. The proposal for an amendment that I would like to highlight is the one that represents a tax disgrace of the cost of education, because education is always an investment in fact. We propose to increase the limits of the deduction of education expenses in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) from €800 to €900, to avoid a head tax increase; we propose to apply this limit for each member of the family aggregate, not to harm families with more children or adults who invest in training; we propose to increase the deductions of student rent in higher education, to relieve families with displaced children. For the Liberal Initiative, education is even more essential for the most vulnerable students, precisely because it is one of the few ways that opens them to social mobility. That is why we have put forward another proposal, to extend the School Social Action, essential to ensure equal opportunities at this time of worsening the financial situation of several families. For the Liberal Initiative, education should focus on the student, regardless of the nature of the school that it frequents. We therefore propose that the State update the financial support to private schools, which have been established for too many years. Unfortunately, much more needs to be done to ensure, on the one hand, a student-centred education, with greater administrative, financial and pedagogical autonomy of schools and real freedom of choice for families, and on the other, an education that guarantees equal opportunities and learning of students and gives them the basis for a more promising future, in a constantly changing socio-economic context. This is the vision of the Liberal Initiative. Definitely, a very different view of the miserable vision of the Socialist Party Government. In eight years of the Socialist Party we attended four academic years with disruptions in the functioning of schools, strikes of teachers and students without classes, failures in learning recovery, shortage of teachers, and increased demand for vacancies in private schools and explanation centers to support learning. For the Liberal Initiative, education can and must be a quality training space for all, guaranteed access to all and creator of autonomous citizens, at the same time as it is a personal realization space for all those who work in it and give the best of themselves every day. While this is a vision of exception and not the rule, the State is failing and will be responsible for the failure in the qualification of the next generations, who will see their dreams postponed by incompetence of the Socialist Party. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u238	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Initiative wants more, the Portuguese deserve better. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u239	Still within the framework of Article 111. we now have proposal 1119 - C, submitted by BE, which adds Article 111. o -A — Compensation for displaced teachers. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u240	Mr President, I think I was clarified when, recently, Mr. Secretary of State for Education said that the only problem in public school was that some students did not have classes for lack of teachers. We stopped recognizing a structural problem of lack of teachers in Portugal to minimize it as « some students with lack of classes», and that explains a lot. It explains, for example, that the Government has so far refused to recognize teachers who are hired as specialized technicians, but who should be hired as teachers, as the Left Block proposes. This explains that the Government's main plan for the accommodation of displaced teachers includes, so far, 29 houses. The 29 houses for displaced teachers were the government's main plan to solve the problem, when teachers are the only public officials to whom it is requested and who are obliged by the government to travel throughout the country, particularly if they want to be linked. They are the only public servants to whom compensation for this travel is not recognised, and that is what the Left Block proposes here: compensation for dislocated teachers, in transport and in housing, in addition to the recovery of service time. But that is not all, we also want to recognize rights to operational assistants, who are not indifferent workers and who should be entitled to their career—which has already been a career of educational action technicians, educational action assistants, since they have already had a number of names—and that they should be able to recover it. We also want to strengthen the recruitment of psychologists, because not only teachers do school, all education professionals are important. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u241	Let us turn to proposal 1302 - C of the CFP, adding Article 111. -A— 1 % for Culture - National Plan for Development for Arts and Culture, now taking the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, another year in which the Budget presented is still far away from reaching 1 % for culture, showing the government's devaluation of one of the pillars of our democratic regime — access to culture, democratization of culture and free creation and cultural use. Culture is a condition for individual and collective emancipation. It is therefore necessary to break with a policy of de-investment and marketing of culture. An alternative policy is needed, which guarantees 1 % of the Culture Budget, which implements the public service of culture and ensures the means for the Directorate-General for Arts ( DGArts ). A policy that guarantees support for all eligible applications and also support for non-competitive artistic and cultural work, as well as encouragement for literary creation and reading, support for cinematographic creation or investment in the National Plan of Archaeological Works. A policy that guarantees the recovery of cultural heritage and also investment in museums and monuments—with the freeness, on weekends and holidays, of museums, palaces and monuments of central government—or the free access of young people to cultural activities and equipment of central government. These are proposals which the CFP is making in this State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u243	We have thus reached the end of the discussion of proposals for the addition of Article 111. o -A. You will now use the word Mr. Secretary of State of Education, António Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, when I mentioned the existence of some students without classes, I was not, in any way, devaluation of the problem. A student is missing, and that — being a teacher, a student — means we have a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u245	But 1 is different than 8000!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u246	We never underestimated him at all the meetings we came to, and there were many, and the honourable Member was in all of them, careful, that I know he was. What is not true is to accept some of the numbers that have been advanced over these months, that would be 120 000, 80 000, 40 000, were the most disparate numbers. in some cases they have come to the unit. And that's exactly what I tried to explain that it wasn't happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u247	So how many are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u248	The linkage of the technicians who were at the Soares Art School of Kings and at the António Arroio Artistic School has already occurred, and occurred as teachers. The linkage of the superior technicians who are spread by our schools and which are absolutely necessary, is taking place, as the honourable Member does, you well know. As you will certainly know, because you are careful, that even yesterday the government has supported income support for teachers, as I have already mentioned, that they move to the regions of Lisbon and Tejo Valley and to the region of the Algarve. In fact, we need to be careful and serious about the debate we are having here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u249	We do not register requests for clarification and therefore proceed to the submission of proposal 316 - C from the Czech Republic to add Article 113. o -A — Check mental health. Mr. Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the arrival brings hundreds of proposals for this State budget to improve our SNS (National Health Service), which is this month in its worst month ever. But today, among these tens of proposals we have, we have chosen to highlight proposal 316 - C, because today, in Portugal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, three of us will be killed. True, in Portugal, three people have committed suicide a day and there is still a lack of courage to face the mental health of Portuguese people. What it really seems is that you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House, they don't want to know about them. And why? Because for decades the bad political decisions have made Portugal — listen carefully, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — today is the second European country with a higher prevalence of psychiatric disorders. It is the second country with more antidepressants consumption and the fifth country in the ranking of depressive syndrome, in which 42% of young people, after the pandemic, pointed to depression as a problem. So we have to leave the ideological prejudices on the left, which make those who cannot afford a quick access to a psychologist or a psychiatrist, in private, are given to their despair, their pain and, above all, to the social stigma. And why are they given to despair and pain? Because there are 24 000 psychologists in Portugal, but only 1 % are in primary care—is only 250. In the psychiatry services of public hospitals in Portugal, 50% of them do not meet the guaranteed waiting times and the average waiting time is 4 months. That's why, sirs. Members, we have no doubt that our proposal for the mental health check, in cases where the SNS has no answer, will bring this access to mental health, in fact, as is already the case with the dentist. For this, we have to vote in favour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests by PCP Deputies Bruno Dias and João Dias.]] For this, we will vote in favour, to reduce the risk of suicide, the risk of depression and to improve, once and for all, the mental health of Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u251	We now turn to the presentation of the proposal 563 - C of the PSD, of an addition to Article 113. o -A— Contractualization of health care provision to SNS users, speaking to Mrs Inês Barroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, disrespected by the Portuguese, based on left political radicalism, is the mark that this socialist government leaves in the area of health. [[PSD applause.]] Do you need health care? Wait months, years—but wait! It is a government that has balanced the degradation of access to health by the Portuguese, so that more and more people are afraid of getting sick and resorting to the SNS. The government ended with public-private partnerships ( PPP ), increased waste, was even unable to collaborate with the private and social sectors for the health of Portuguese. What the PSD proposes to VV. For example, the SNS establishes health partnerships with social and private sector entities, for the management of public units and for the performance of health services, where this is more advantageous in terms of quality-cost binomy. It's the person, the service to the user we care about. [[PSD applause.]] This proposal will make it possible to achieve important gains in efficiency for the SNS and, which is even more important, will make it possible to obtain health gains for users, especially the most fragile and vulnerable. We do not believe that the Socialist Party is viable, but we believe that the Portuguese will prefer the PSD on the next 10th of March, and we will do everything we can to make this happen, for the sake of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u253	We continue with the proposal 948 - C, of the Liberal Initiative, to add a new Article 113. the -A - Review of the SNS Financing Model and of the Contracted Sectors. To present the proposal, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, in this State budget, the Government ignores one of the main problems in the country — the lack of access to health care. For more money than every budget the government is referring to health, the truth is that Portuguese access to health is becoming increasingly difficult. And this is paradigmatic of what the Liberal Initiative has been defending and saying. There is a lack of government strategy, there is a lack of real reforms, which are properly prepared, with vision of the future and in close dialogue with all sides. Of course, there is no dialogue with the socialist governments, no transparency, no good management — there are only remedies. And that's why the Liberal Initiative wants more. For this State Budget, we want a new model of SNS funding, based on objective measurement of health outcomes for people, the performance of health care providers and their consequent accountability. Thus, health professionals will benefit from increased demand for their services, which will obviously result in better working conditions, either at the level of wages and the value of their careers, or at the level of autonomy and recognition. We want a universal electronic health record so that it is possible to access the clinical data of the users — which, I recall, are the property of the users and not of the State, or of each of the providers — irrespective of the sector or location where this health care is done. The aim of this register is to avoid delays, duplication of examinations, other inefficiencies that, in addition to high costs, can obviously lead to the degradation of the health status of people. We want a new health regulator that is truly independent, because accreditation, regulation and supervision must be inseparable from rigor, exemption and transparency, and because the health system must be immune to all conjuncural political influences. But we also want — which is very, very important — a special programme for access to health care, which, where the SNS does not have the capacity to respond, ensures the right of access to family doctors, specialist consultations and surgeries through the private and social sectors. Therefore, if the State does not provide the service, the State pays. On this point, I would like to highlight the following: it was known that the Government will conclude an agreement with the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon that will give family doctor to about 30,000 users. This is a short measure and I wonder if there will continue to be 1 million and 600,000 people without a family doctor. And it's a measure that sins late. But there is a positive part here: in fact, this proposal has already been presented several times by the Liberal Initiative, and has been systematically plunged. This shows that liberal ideas are making their way, it is only a pity that it takes so long, because the delay harms everyone in need of health care. Therefore, Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our proposals for the State budget. For the future, the Liberal Initiative has already presented its model of health, which provides precisely that people can access, without additional costs, the most convenient healthcare provider. This, yes, is freedom of choice, and corresponds to access to health for everyone. It was rejected by this Parliament, but in the Liberal Initiative we did not give up. We don't give up people, we don't give up giving people more health care. That is why our ambition will obviously continue to be part of our electoral programme. Because every vote on the Liberal Initiative is a vote on people's access to health. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u255	We now turn to the presentation of proposal 1151 - C, of the Left Block, of the addition of Article 113. o -A- Autonomy of Health Center Groups. Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u256	Mr. President, currently a significant part of the family health units has repeatedly had lack of material, some, in fact, considered basic for the provision of health services. And, therefore, what is proposed is a change in order for health-care centres groups to have financial, managerial and administrative autonomy, and that there are also management funds, so that health-care centres can resolve, in a rapid and autonomous manner, these material failures or situations of small maintenance. It is not normal to have health centers where there is a lack of material such as gloves or syringes, essential for the day-to-day operation of these establishments. Similarly, we find it very important to repeal the decree implementing the ULS (local health units) once, such a "great reform" that the Socialist Party wants to enter into force in January 2024. This decree was published on the exact day that the Prime Minister resigned, even after knowing that it is an option that causes many doubts, brings many fears and studies on existing units tell us that this model does not improve access to health care, nor does it solve the problems we are checking today. But we also have a number of other important measures: the strengthening of psychologists and nutritionists in the National Health Service; the strengthening, as well, of dentists; the strengthening, and improvement of career, of medical emergency professionals; the hiring of more pharmacists in the SNS; and the necessary improvements in the LDCs (assisted drug reproduction). It is important that these matters are resolved once and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u257	In the same context, to discuss the proposal 1748 - C, of the Socialist Party, to add an article 113. o-C — Oncological disease, Mrs Susana Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u258	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Programme, expressed in this State budget, the oncological disease has been defined as one of the main priorities for the coming years. The objective is to better treat cancer patients, reducing the mortality associated with the disease and increasing the quality of life of the patients, placing them on prevention. On the basis of the data recently made available, Portugal goes out honorably compared with the countries of the European Union with regard to the five-year survival rates. Portugal's performance is higher than the European Union's average. The quality of cancer care in the country has increased in recent years due to better population-based screening, improvement of cancer care and access to innovative treatments. Portugal has developed an excellent work in the creation of the National Strategy to Combat Cancer, in line with the European strategy. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Data in oncology are extremely important. We know the need to improve these data through the introduction of improvements in the National Oncological Register, to deepen knowledge, to have more accurate and more current information and to improve treatment and prevention; and we know the potential that this Register has to address these needs. We present this proposal to improve the National Oncological Register to increase the coverage we can make in the population-based screenings, to increase adherence to these screenings and to extend them to other types of cancer. We consider it to be a very relevant proposal, in line with what the Government is doing, with fundamental steps to respond to the pillars of the cancer strategy and pursue a path of improvement in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u259	The discussion of proposal 1538 - C of the CFP is followed, adding an article 114. o -A — Financial support scheme for the acquisition of glasses and lenses, dental prostheses, hearing aids and orthopedic footwear. For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the policy of low wages, pensions and poverty reforms, associated with the degradation of the National Health Service by the policies of successive governments PS, PSD and CDS, have led to a decrease in population access to health care. In particular in areas as sensitive as vision, hearing or oral health, the response is almost non-existent in terms of prevention and, in terms of treatments, practically all are delivered to the private initiative. Therefore, the CFP presents a proposal with a financial support scheme, a sharing in the acquisition of glasses and lenses, dental prostheses, hearing aids and orthopedic footwear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u262	It is a proposal that aims to ensure access to these essential goods in such deprived areas. But we also want to highlight a very important area, that of economic insufficiency, particularly for those who have to choose between buying the food they need, paying the house with money that does not arrive and buying the medicines needed for their health care. The CFP submits a proposal ensuring, in particular, that medication is free of charge for chronic patients, patients with economic impairment and users over 65 years of age. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u263	We now move on to proposal 665 - C of the Czech Republic to add Article 117. o -A — Eastern Hospital of Lisbon. You have the floor to speak to Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u264	Mr President, on the eve of the celebration of the one we consider to be the true day that restored freedom, 48 years after 25 November, the arrival has tried to bring justice in relation to a populist promise by the Socialist Party and also the Social-Democrat Party, which over 30 years have completely postponed the construction of the Eastern Hospital of Lisbon. What we want is definitely to put deadlines. We have already had deadlines for award, start times and completion times, we have already heard that the work, which was awarded in 2022, would begin in 2024 and be ready in 2027, and what we intend is that at the beginning of 2024 the works begin. What we also want is that works concerning all hospitals are completed: not only the Eastern Hospital of Lisbon, but also the Central Hospital of Algarve, the Sixal Hospital and the West Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u266	Once and for all, they solve these situations. We know that in the books, as a rule, the political cycles end—at least in our own! Your cycle, in our book, is over. I know that, in your books, it's not good cycle talking, it's more notes. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] Once and for all, they conclude the work, conclude the concrete rate of implementation of the State budgets, because they do not advance the promises made merely by populism. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u267	I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Ricardo Mestre, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is just to highlight the valuable contribution that the 2024 Budget brings to the consolidation of the ongoing reform in the National Health Service, reform that goes through a new organization — a new management model that this Budget allows, with greater autonomy within the Ministry of Health — for more funding and also for a strengthening of investment. All this is possible through the work that has been developed, all this is enhanced in the Budget for 2024 and all this is translated into very concrete measures. Just to mention the investment, this year and next we will have the most ambitious hospital reequipment plan of the SNS, with 80 new heavy medical equipment: magnetic resonance imaging, TAC (computated axial tomography), surgical robots. It is the largest ever investment in heavy medical equipment in the SNS, and this is possible through Community funds. It is EUR 117 million from the PRR to apply these 80 equipment, which will allow us to bring to the country what best exists in the world of technology at the service of professionals, at the service of people. That's how SNS is reorganized, that's how SNS is strengthened, and that's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u269	We thus conclude the chapter on health and enter the chapter on transport, with the assessment of proposal 21 - C of the Free, of the addition of Article 119. o -A— National rail pass. Mr Rui Tavares, who is always attentive to these things, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Colleagues last year proposed the National Railway Pass and the first response by the Government was that it would be impossible. However, there was a way to walk—it was not a road, it was even a railway road—and that path was made up to the national railway pass in regional trains. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] This means that today, in Portugal, people are free to walk on regional trains that they want,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u271	But what trains? Oh, my God! There are no trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u272	... in the lines that exist, any day of the week or the weekend, either to go to work or to travel with the family, paying 49 € per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u273	Trouts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u274	For those on regional trains in the Algarve or the Enthronement to Lisbon, it would represent a saving of many tens of euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u275	Don't leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u276	The problem is precisely this which Mr. João Dias is mentioning:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u277	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u278	...is not enough because regional trains have very small coverage in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u279	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u280	This means there's got to be another way to walk. This is the proposal which the Free will makes, and we are waiting for the Government to respond: extending this step to the inter-regional, suburban, urban, inter-city, all trains which have public service obligations. So I come here once again to remember that this is a measure of cohesion, a measure of combatting climate change, an anti-inflationary saving measure that gives people freedom to make much more money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u281	Asshole in one minute and 35 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u282	Mrs. and you government members, the word is on your side, let's see if there's any way to walk.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u283	There's a way, but there's no trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u284	In the transport chapter, we moved on to proposals 1760 - C, adding Article 120 ( 3 ). the proposal for a law, and 1737 - C, which adds an article 120. -A — Mobility card, both of the Socialist Party. To speak, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I am certainly proposing 1737 - C to create a mobility card for the year 2024. With this, we think we are increasing the use of sustainable mobility, with companies sharing, with their workers, that same mobility. This is why we are trying not only to make more use, but also to increase income for workers, and it is certain that companies will have to have incentives, particularly tax incentives, for the implementation of this card.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u286	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u287	With this, and with greater use, we will certainly have environmental, energy and economic gains. As regards proposal 1760 - C, it is within the framework of the creation of « Incentive + TP », a programme which aims to replace the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport) and PROTransP ( Public Transportation Support Programme). The PART was undoubtedly the biggest programme, the biggest reform in the use of public transport. A programme created in the First Government of António Costa, which many say has not made any reforms, but here is one of the major reforms we have made in public transport, in particular with the support of the PCP and the Left Block and with the vote against the PSD, with the vote against the right. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] With this new programme, for which EUR 360 million is planned —... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] ... is a programme in which we have always invested — in view of the Government's proposal, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that, in addition to EUR 360 million, we will have to have more than EUR 50 million to deal with inflation and, in this way, we will be able to maintain the same number of users with the same resources. I recall that with this program, many families, for example, achieved a net income of over 200 € per month. If this is not a right-wing reform, we are waiting for you to present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u288	We move on to proposal 660 - C, of the Left Block, to add an article 119. o -A— Exemption of toll rates in A22 - Via do Infante, and has the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u289	Mr President, the Socialist Party has, over the past few years, been promising the end of tolls in the former SCUT (without cost to the user) but the truth is that this promise has not yet been fulfilled. The Minister of Territorial Cohesion can well say how often you want to personally agree to the end of these tolls, because this is not very good for the people, who still have to pay. So talking about territorial cohesion cannot be alone: talking. It is necessary to carry out, and the end of the tolls in the former SCUT is a fundamental starting point, because penalizing populations who use them to work or even to move to hospitals—because theirs is closed and they have to go further—and having to pay tolls, it is unfair. And more unfair is because we are talking about areas where, as we know, rail supply is very scarce or virtually non-existent, not to mention other forms of collective transport. Therefore, it is time to do what has been promised and to respond by the population and by the economy of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u290	Mr Berta Nunes of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention under the transport chapter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a budget that strengthens territorial cohesion and combats the depopulation of the interior territories. The decrease in tolls on inland roads and Algarve, by 30 % compared to current prices and by 65 % compared to 2011 rates, is an important measure for reducing the context costs of domestic based companies and facilitating the mobility of those living in those territories. The National Railway Plan, which in normal circumstances should soon come to the Assembly of the Republic and which has already been in public discussion, foresees investments in the inland railway, investments that have been stopped and resumed for many years. Two very important examples for the North and Internal Region are the Porto-Braganza-Zamor railway connection and the link between Pocinho and Barca d'Alva, which have already launched competition for the implementation of the project, and we hope that the work will continue with the future governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u292	The work didn't start! Continue what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u293	These investments in rail, after long years of stopping, mean a new hope for the development of the interior regions and their connection to Europe. This budget also has — not in transport, but in connectivity — EUR 172 million, up to 2030, to increase digital connectivity, which is very relevant to the interior territories with major failures and shortcomings in this area. Yesterday's Council of Ministers approved the launch of the international competition for the installation, management, operation and maintenance of optical fibre networks in the territories where it does not exist, an investment of EUR 425 million in which EUR 172 million is national funds. This is an investment of the greatest importance for the competitiveness of the interior territories, with only three measures to be strengthened in this Budget, which gives continuity to the strengthening of territorial cohesion policies initiated in the first Government of António Costa, with the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior and the Interior Valuation Programme, approved in 2017, and continued in the second and third governments, with the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u295	... that we hope it will continue in the next governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u296	Continue what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u297	Indeed, we hope that territorial cohesion will continue to be a priority in the policies of future governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u298	We will now appreciate the proposal 1472 - C, of the Left Block, to add an article 119. o-I — Construction of the line of São Mamede ( IPO to Stadium of the Sea, Metro of the Port ). Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u299	Mr President, two proposals submitted by the Left Block are essential for the municipality of Matosinhos and for Grande Porto. They are essential to respond to the climate urgency and the need for large port mobility and are essential to unlock the A28 ( motorway No 28 ) and the internal belt route.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u300	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u301	The opening of the railway line of Legions to passengers should have happened yesterday, but thoughtfully, structured, to ensure that it is indeed a solution and not a problem — as happened in the past — a hypothesis of the future, and that is what we propose. The construction of the line of São Mamede do Metro do Porto, from the connection of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) to the Lady of the Time, at the Stadium of the Sea, is fundamental and should have happened yesterday. These are the proposals we bring in on behalf of the climate transition which is necessary, on behalf of mobility for the people, on behalf of the promises that the PS and the government have not fulfilled, but which is now in our hands we can repair. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u302	We turn to Article 120. o — Incentive + TP Programme, contained in the bill. To speak by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, after more than 20 years in which the CFP proposed and fought for cheaper passes for all transports, the measure was applied. After years in which the PCP defended the free pass for young people and people from 65 years of age, the partial application of the free application for young people is now announced. Mrs. Members, once again, it is in the light of the fact that the proposals of the CFP make all the difference in people's lives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u304	Well, no more! [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u305	... but it is also in view that only at great cost and with much struggle can these measures be achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u306	It can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u307	The CFP is proud to be at the origin of this one that was one of the most important options for promoting public transport and of undisputed environmental scope, but from the very first point of view, we have warned: the problems are far from solved. The price of the passes needs to be lowered, and we propose a reduction to 20 € in the metropolitan and regional pass. The free pass must be for all young people, even if they do not study in higher education. There is a need for further increases in transport prices and, of course, substantial investment in strengthening supply for more transport. The lack of public transport is a real problem, a serious problem, and it did not even have the answer to the question, because the PS government did not want to listen to the workers or transport users and rejected the CFP proposals that brought solutions to these problems. It was not by chance, it was by choice, and this Government and this majority, who had all the conditions to decide the necessary measures, have to take responsibility for their options in this matter. Let's remember again: when there are no transports, day after day, people don't get the right accounts, in the morning, to go to work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u309	...but who has previously taken the wrong options, may, from here on forward, take the right options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u310	We move on to proposal 870 - C of the PSD to add Article 120. o-D — Freezing of the rate of use of railway infrastructure, and you have the floor to speak to Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in 1974, Sérgio Godinho offered us with the music Freedom : « There is only real freedom when there is peace, bread, housing, health, education. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u312	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, with so many millions that the government promises families and businesses, plus the PRR millions, how do they explain that this song is so current last 50 years on April 25? Will the Portuguese have no reason to be disappointed with the Government of the Socialist Party? Disillusion with eight years of systematically postponed promises, like the Railway 2020 ; Disillusion with a government that gives contradictory signs to the railway sector by allowing the application of tolls in the access of trains to the Port of Sines and, at the same time, the worsening of the rate of use of railway infrastructure to 2024 ; Disillusion with the Government that maintains territorial injustice in the distribution of PART money, the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, with 80 % of the funds to be left in Lisbon and Porto. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is urgent to correct this injustice with its budgetary reinforcement in 2024 and other measures to promote territorial cohesion, such as the PSD's proposal to extend the national rail pass to inter-regional trains. This, without aggravating costs, neither for operators nor for the State budget for 2024, to truly leave no one behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u313	The following is proposal 1137 - C, of the Left Block, for the addition of Article 120. o -A— Reduction of the passage of collective passenger transport, and has the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u314	Mr President, tariff reduction is a measure of great importance — it has been — for people's incomes, by reducing the cost of daily travel in public transport, and of course also has a central importance in responding to climate change. But, for that reason, it is important to continue to reduce the price of collective transport passes, and the proposal we have is for them to pass up to €15 and €20, respectively for municipal and intermunicipal passes. Equally, it is important to ensure the free movement of young people, but not in part, to students, as the government wants at the moment, and also at the age of three, with a view to extending the free movement to other groups in the second half of 2024. It has been absolutely proven that it is by reducing prices, and possibly by giving them freeness, that the number of people to use public transport increases. Therefore, it is important to extend the national rail pass to inter-regionals, but also to inter-regionals, because at the moment, what does not correspond to the increasingly pendulum movements, between home and work, which cross various inter-municipal areas, and it is necessary to respond to this population. Finally, it is also necessary to articulate public transport with the use of other modes of mobility, such as bicycles, and to encourage municipalities to leverage bicycle sharing programmes, and hence the proposals we have on the table. In the midst of all this and in addition to all this, it is necessary to continue to effectively strengthen the tariff part, but not only; it is absolutely essential the part of supply and public investment, which is so often delayed, in our country, as regards rail.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u315	We now move on to proposal 659 - C of the PSD, which adds Article 123 - D — Action programme for the full digitization of the water cycle. Mr. Hugo Patrício Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, modernisation of water management is a priority when we live times of great inefficiencies and a tendency to reduce water solidarity through climate change. The future requires a more rational management of this resource, with an optimization of all processes, incorporating more innovation and technology from capture to use, which must be increasingly efficient and sustainable. A technological and organizational leap is needed to solve chronic problems such as major losses in supply networks, uptakes and consumptions that are not measured, lack of monitoring of aquifer states and threats to the quality of water masses. The PSD presented a proposal for an amendment to create an action programme for the full digitization of the water cycle, providing for measures and investments to modernize water resources management, in a technology transformation logic; defending the paradigm change in water management; and reforming the functioning of this sector, which has assisted the inoperance of this socialist government — let us see! — that neither the strategic water supply plan was able to approve, after one and a half years of public consultation. Let us hope that the Socialist Party will understand the strategic importance of this proposal and enable its approval. Finally, during this Legislative Session, we insisted that the government was waiting for it to rain to fill dams. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't it really rained a lot? Oh, my God! And soon they came to say: "You see, the dams are already a lot, but very full. » I reckon that what, on that day, was sung in that Ministry, Mr. Secretary of State, changing the letter, was : It's sraningagain, allelluia! It's blackmailing again! They sang until the day that the searches were there, and this is the state that we have in the area of the environment, in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u317	We continue with the proposal 704 - C of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which adds an article 124 -A, to provide for the creation of the position of Director of a protected area, and Mr Carlos Cação has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members last week were published Law n. the 63 / 2023, of November 16, which reviews the model of co-management of protected areas, where several operational aspects related to co-management of parks and natural reserves were reinforced. This law is based on a PSD initiative which has received several amendments, resulting in the approval of the PS and PSD. The importance of reintroduction of this post can be seen in an opinion of the National Council for the Environment and Climate Action of 2021, as well as in the 2030 Biodiversity study. In the light of the amendments adopted, it is important to ensure that in 2024 protected areas will be able to have executive directors, responsible for day-to-day operational management, integrated organically into the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature and Forests) and, of course, properly linked with their co-management committees. Therefore, with this proposal to amend the State budget, it is intended to ensure that this institutional change has the necessary financial support to be operationalized, so in accordance with the approved law, we expect the Socialist Party to make it viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u319	We turn to proposal 1122 - C, of the Left Block, to add an article 125. o -A — Limitations and restrictions on landing and take-off of private flights in national territory. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u320	Mr President, this State budget was the budget of the IUC (the single circulation tax), in which the Government said that for the environmental transition it had to bear on the poorest. Well, we say that's not acceptable. The government carried over the poorest but did not touch private jets, highly polluting;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u321	As always!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u322	...he carried on the poorest, but did not touch the luxury cruises, highly polluting. The energy transition, for this government, is made by defending the rich, pressing the poorest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u323	They always do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u324	This is unacceptable, it is an attack on any idea of environmental transition that is progressive and therefore we propose this strategic change: that the IUC be stopped taxing as intended by the government — the PS has finally gained judgment — that private jets are banned, that only bring pollution; and that it be forced on the electrification of cruisers, who do so badly to our cities, particularly Lisbon and Matosinhos. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u325	Eletrification of cruises? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u326	Allow me to ask for a little more silence from the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] Now yes, within the framework of Article 126. o — Support for farmers, farmers and fishermen, as set out in the bill, I give the floor to the Member of the Parliamentary Group of PS John Nicolau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the great instability in the global context affects the economy, particularly with a high incidence in the primary sector. in this scenario, the work of the governance of the Socialist Party has allowed to mitigate the effects of successive crises, maintaining an ambition for the sector, seeking more income, more investment, better future. This budget provides a public investment boost, only for agriculture and fisheries, of EUR 500 million, focusing on competitiveness and sustainability, with four structural vectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u328	400 million are from the PRR!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u329	The first vector is the National Regadios Programme: 180 million are allocated only in this Budget, and it must be pointed out that 72% of the National Regadios Plan are being implemented or executed. It is already progressing with the national strategy for the 2030 Regadio. Second vector: gain scale, an objective which the Government of the Socialist Party has worked through promoting and encouraging the organization of production and betting in a programme for the restructuring of cooperatives. Third vector: bet on the generational renewal, with measures such as the most favourable tax regime directed at the installation of young farmers or the premium and funding rates increased within the framework of PEPAC ( Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy ). Fourth vector: digital transition and innovation through the implementation of the Innovation Agenda, with investment in the knowledge centres of INIAV (National Institute for Agrarian and Veterinary Research, I. P.) a little across the country, in addition to the support of the CAP (common agricultural policy) and the fisheries policy, with more than 350 million added through the State budgets, and still with the forecast to increase by 40 % of the tax costs of production factors and support for fuel for family agriculture and small coastal fisheries. All this effort, all this work, translates into numbers: an increase of 5, 5 % of exports of agri-food and fisheries, and with results in Community programmes; Mar 2020 with implementation rates of 93 %; PDR ( Rural Development Programme) 2020 with implementation rates of 83 % to be concluded in 2025, Portugal being one of the 10 most implemented Member States,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u330	... and already with a new PEPAC in progress, through the Single Application and sectoral programmes. The good results are the result of the work of all producers and of all companies in the primary sector, but, Mrs. Members, they are also the result of the commitment and strength of this Government of the Socialist Party — and this budget is an example of the focus and determination for agriculture and fisheries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u331	The following is proposal 686 - C of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which adds Article 126. o -A — Programme for the valuation of agricultural products. Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u332	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. With this proposal, the PSD advocates that more measures should be implemented that promote and value agricultural and food products. We believe that this is important because it benefits the environment, helps farmers, helps trade balance and contributes to greater territorial cohesion. We are now coming to the end of a cycle of socialist governments, and I would like to see that all that has been said by Mr Nicolau now is true, but indeed what is happening in the country is not that. We have had a government, as farmers say, which is "a lot of sheep but little grape".
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u333	Hey! Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u334	In fact, we have indicators that demonstrate this when we saw that in 2022 Portuguese farmers lost 11 % of their income; when we saw that they lost 24 % of their purchasing power. All these are indicators that demonstrate that things are not actually going well in agriculture. But, ladies and gentlemen. Farmers and Mrs. Agricultural producers who hear us, this may be different, and we are sure that Portugal does not have to be doomed to failure, that agriculture does not have to be doomed to failure. [[Protests of PS Members.]] If they manage Community funds better, if they work with farmers and agricultural producers, if they invest differently, if they encourage those who invest and those who work, who undertake, everything will be different. Unfortunately, what we have today is the abandonment of the rural world, it is an average age over 60 years in agriculture—and so we do not go there. So, ladies and gentlemen. Farmers, it's time to make a difference, and I believe you will vote in the PSD in the next elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u335	For an intervention under the proposal 1727 - C of the PS Parliamentary Group on the addition of Article 126. o -A— Financing of anti-graniz systems, has the floor of Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the existence of some climate change negationists, the truth is that weather conditions are becoming more frequent, particularly the granite fall phenomena that have seriously affected the northern and central regions of Portugal, rooting up crops and causing widespread agricultural damage. The various systems capable of minimizing the damage associated with the fall of hail, such as cannons or anti-granium screens, with proven results and efficacy and also important systems that are environmentally safe, with favorable opinions from APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and CCDR-N ( Northern Regional Coordination and Development Commission ), are already tested, thus not causing any secondary environmental effect. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore proposes the creation of funding to support the placement of anti-granium systems for the prevention and protection of crops, because they are too expensive for farmers, but fundamental to protect and save the future crops of our orchards, our vineyards and our olive groves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u337	The following is proposal 1681 - C of the PS, for the addition of Article 126. o-B — Support for beekeeping. Mrs Paula Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u338	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, allow me to speak quickly and clearly what important and serious issues require. Understanding the effects and minimizing climate change, combating the beekeeper and supporting beekeepers is a key beekeeper in defending the beekeeping sector, which is the basis of all other agricultural activities and ecosystem protection. The reduction in the quality of pasture is due to lack of pollination, since there is no seed production for renewal. The quality of the fruit we consume is dependent on the bees, which, at the moment, only survive with human help to fight their predators and feed them in ever longer periods. Moving to a colloquial image, if we do not support beekeeping, we will cease to have in quantity and quality the pea rock of the West, the orange of the Algarve, the chestnut of Trás-os-Montes, the cheese of the Beira Baixa and even the wines of the Douro and the Alentejo. More serious, we will not have the balanced green of ecosystems that allows human life. Let me, in modesty, say that the Socialist Party's bench has been well suited to proposing a measure of compensation for hives, which we are talking about today, for a way of valuing such an important sector for ourselves and for all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u339	Mr Frederico Francisco, Secretary of State for Infrastructure, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u340	In fact, Mr President, numerous proposals have emerged here on tariff reductions and on the expansion of public transport passes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u341	There's Galamba, if necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u342	I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the way in which this government has made progress in the metropolitan areas to much lower values than previously existed, steps which have for the first time allowed the use of all modes of transport — it has also been recalled here by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u343	Exactly! It's worth a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u344	Could not connect with command "%s": %s. and the path that began last year with the creation of the national railway pass. It is clear that this passage has limitations, but, more than the limitations of the pass, we are aware of the limitations that our public transport network — and, in particular, our rail network — has and the amount of investment it needs. Our focus must therefore be to continue to strengthen and invest in expanding the network and expanding services. However, this does not prevent us from assessing the possibility and the proposals that exist to facilitate access to public transport by means of tariffs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u345	We are now in proposal 744 - C of the NAP, adding Article 134. o-C — Monitoring report on the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024, and has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, every minute in our country, we lose, for corruption, 34 000 €. This is a debate that we must make serious, equitable and not resort to populism, because it is a phenomenon that undermines not only the credibility of the institutions, but also the integrity of the democratic rule of law and the democratic institutions themselves. The NAP did not remember the agenda of transparency just the tow of operations that came to public collation, even less because we are going to have elections in March; quite the contrary. We have been responsible for the creation of the Portal More Transparency, we have also fought for greater demands on policy reporting obligations and even for bringing draft laws to the public debate for lobbying regulation, which are fundamental to knowing the legislative footprint and for those outside, the citizens, to know with whom the legislator and the rulers sit to promote the legislation. We want this debate to be held with responsibility and rigour. It is in this sense of responsibility that we bring two very clear proposals today. On the one hand, we want to strengthen the means of combating corruption and economic and financial crime by strengthening human resources, optimising these resources and engaging in interinstitutional cooperation. On the other hand, we want to ensure that the country will have a new strategy to combat corruption, to force up to 2028, taking into account that the existing one will end in 2024, and that it will be developed by a technical, equidistant and independent group. We must not forget that the fight against corruption and the strengthening of transparency are absolutely essential to ensure that every penny of public money goes where it has to go — for the common good, for housing, for health, for public transport, for environmental protection or for animal protection — and not for where it should not go, that is, for the interests that have been served here and for the lobbies that so often sit behind the cloth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u347	We are now debating Article 135. o — Portal More Transparency. Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can say with growing certainty that opacity and lack of transparency in the management of public money are the water brand of socialist governance over the decades. We see the number of foundations and associations, whose objectives no one perceives well or for the purpose clearly sent out politically, to receive public funding. But we continue to see a paradigm of governance where announcements and declarations of intention are multiplied for later, and in fact, nothing changes. That is why it is imperative that we increase the control mechanisms on all the money and funds that come out of the state, that is, the pocket of all the Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u349	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u350	in this sense, the Arrival submits a proposal to amend this State budget in which we propose that the Government update the Portal More Transparency. This update should be carried out by creating sections that allow access to all information relating to public funding of foundations, observatories, public, semi-public and private institutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u351	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u352	We also understand that all government members or their relatives who have entered into business with the State must be indicated on this portal. We believe that the time has come for this late government at least to set an example of something. We already realize that this PS is resigning and is now available to take advantage of measures that I would never approve before. We therefore hope that we will be accompanied by this proposal, whether it is for purely electoralist matters, by Portugal and the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u353	We move on to proposal 340 - C of the Czech Republic to add Article 135. o -A - External audit of government accounts. Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, EUR 160 billion, thank you for fixing this number well. This is the value of the public expenditure which was not subject to internal control, according to the panoramic examination carried out by the Court of Auditors on the reliability of the accounts of 2022 relating to entities which integrate the subsectors of Public Administration and social security. This means that more than 72 % of public expenditure was not the target of any internal certification. But more than that, we can also go to the state assets. More than EUR 426 billion, i.e. almost 75 % of the state assets, are not subject to any internal control. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u355	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u356	of the 1260 entities of the Public Administration and Social Security, analysed by the Court of Auditors, only 18 % submitted their accounts with their legal certification of accounts. But this is even worse because, according to the Court of Auditors itself, certificates of accounts relating to 82 entities linked to the Ministry of Health have been adulterated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u357	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u358	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u359	... an independent audit whose report should be published on the Transparency Portal by the end of 2024. More than ever, it is important to collect the total banner in which the Socialist Party has transformed our public accounts. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u360	We now turn to proposal 1320 - C of the CFP, which adds Article 138. o -A— Programme for the expansion of public housing supply. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the situation of housing in our country is an authentic social emergency. The diagnoses are all done, the data are known and only does not see who does not want to see: there is no lack of houses; what is missing are houses that people can pay for.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u362	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u363	The housing and life of the people are at the mercy of the speculative wildlife that continues to impose, because the interests and profits of the bank and of the real estate funds continue to speak higher, and the response of the PS Government is to subsidize these profits with public money and those exorbitant increases in income and household benefits. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] In the debate of this Budget, the CFP reaffirms the urgent need to move forward with concrete measures to strengthen public housing supply, to protect tenants from the plague of increases and evictions and to bring stability to leases. We propose that income increases be sustained, the biggest increase in 30 years that the government wants to let go; we propose measures to reduce the house's provision, not on the basis of deferrals than it is now paid to pay more, but going to look for the money where it is, at scandalous fees and commissions and at 12 million euros per day of bank profits, and that, thus, people who are being crushed with the increase of interest rates in housing credit have the de facto reduced and not only transferred in part to the front; and we propose that it end up again with the regabof of privileges in vansgolds and non-standard residents, who are inflating housing prices at never seen levels. The CFP does not give up in fighting for what is necessary, so it is fair, so it is necessary for people's lives, because Portugal does not have to be condemned to these inhuman policies of exploitation and speculation, of fiscal paradise for some and of brutal eviction for so many. We do not give up fighting for a country where housing is a right, not only in the Constitution, but in concrete life, where houses are to live and not to speculate, where resources, which are of all, serve not for some to have profits, but for everyone to have home. That is why we say: it is time to change policy. With the strength that we have, with the strength that people want to have, here we are, here we will be, with the solutions that it is urgent to realize. The vote will be today, but the fight will always be! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u364	We move on to proposal 767 - C of the PSD to add Article 139. o -A— Social action at school in basic and secondary education. Mrs. German Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, poor birth must not even be fatal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u366	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u367	And, yes, contrary to what the government and the PS so much proclaim, many are the Portuguese who are going back. Studies show that children growing up in poverty are at risk of unemployment and social exclusion in adults and that in Portugal 30% of the population does not have the capacity to cope with unexpected expenditure. These data are aggravated in the current socio-economic context due to the high cost of living in which families are increasingly struggling to cope with the costs of food, health, housing and education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u368	Therefore, the PSD presents this proposal, which aims to update the values of school social action, taking into account the incomes and also the needs of family aggregates, and the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy in the allocation of support to our students, thus considerably increasing the universe of their beneficiaries. [[PSD applause.]] This is an essential step in combating social exclusion, dropout and promoting equal opportunities in access to compulsory education in order to eliminate social, economic, cultural and family inequalities. Like what was stated in the IUC, this is also a proposal to establish social justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u369	Let us turn to proposal 1241 - C of the CFP, adding Article 139. o -A - Revisition of privatization and development of TAP, S.A. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, TAP has been destabilized for more than 30 years by successive privatisation processes. TAP no longer existed if it remained in the hands of private capital, but, as it returned to public control, the company continues to create value, to be the largest national exporter of services, to create quality employment, to feed national tourism and to ensure sovereign capacity in air transport. A TAP, S.A. , which consistently showed profits over the last decade before the pandemic, it is estimated that it will also yield profits in 2023. The TAP has not received 1 cent from the State since 1997 up to the pandemic crisis of the Covid-19 and, as demonstrated in the Commission of Inquiry in only 10 years, TAP has brought revenue to the State only in IRS of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion, or social security revenues amounting to EUR 1, EUR 4 billion against Ryanair’s 40 million. Now that we have paid for the TAP to be capitalized, financially balanced, are we going to give TAP to foreign private interests? [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] Even the future results of TAP, beyond its strategic role for the national economy, can reverse into dividends to the state, and then why will they have to accumulate profits for any Lufthansa? No, sir. Members, the TAP is needed by the country and cannot be at the mercy of those who want it only as a regional subsidiary or as an asset to be liquidated. Thus, we propose the cancellation of privatization and from here we greet the workers of TAP and the companies that are and who should be from TAP — the PGA ( Portuguese Airlines ), Cateringpor, UCS - Health Care Unit and Groundforce — and we reaffirm that they are counting on us to fight in defense of this strategic tool for a country that wants to be sovereign and developed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u371	We now turn to proposal 936 - C of the Free, adding Article 138. o -A— Habitat Emergency Fund. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u372	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Members of the government, it has already been said here today that there is no real freedom if there is no peace, bread, housing. And in fact, what country of free people can be this when there are those who work and don't have ceilings? What cities are ours when we see being born under the arcades of the buildings, next to the shops, on the avenues of our cities, other cities that are the cities of tents and tents of people who sleep there and every day we see each other wake up and get to work, have a salary, try to grab a line of dignity that can still give them back the normality of a roof of a house? We have to have an emergency fund in housing because of the crisis in housing, because the reinforcements we see happen to the National Strategy for the Integration of People in a Hostless Situation, no matter how much merit it has and the people who work in it, are very small. We see a few million expenses here or there, but low for the already-born tsunami. We need to have a robust emergency fund in the housing, which today serves to deal with the problem of the new homeless, which then also serves to combat the emptying of certain neighborhoods of the city, its decharacterization, or whole cities, which serves to deal with all the consequences of a market in housing that is completely dominated not by its function of dwelling, but by speculating, because this is the great difference between the housing market and other markets. People don't save potatoes; they buy them and eat them. But with regard to houses, there are those who buy them simply to leave them empty and make profit with them over a few years. Therefore, this needs to have a fiscal framework in which the negative externalities generated by this market behavior serve to meet the emergencies we have there. That is why the Free Paper proposes that the rate of the IMT (municipal tax on expensive transmissions of buildings) — which is already increased to luxury buildings above EUR 1 million, but which is inadequate to the market today — be increased...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u373	But? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u374	... for the luxury real estate, bought largely by people who are not yet even contributing to our country, and that the collection of this IMT rate serves to build this emergency fund in the housing, so that it is much more robust and can give solutions to those who need it most. In fact, it is not free who does not have a roof, who does not have a house to live in, who cannot have his reservation of dignity there to then, yes, to get up every day, to go to work, to return to a life of dignity, which is what people want and that is what we, as a society, have the obligation to guarantee to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u375	Let us turn to proposal 1388 - C of the Czech Republic to add Article 139. o -A — Establishment of prevention and support centres for the exit of the prostitution system. Mrs. Deputy of Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this budget devotes EUR 426 million to gender equality, but they know perfectly well that they do not do so on behalf of women, because, as you know, the concept of gender is the greatest betrayal of women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u377	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u378	And we see it from now on when the Minister of Protection, present here, has not been able to define what a woman is. We also know that this concept has reduced women to perceptions and that is why today they say that a woman is only a person with uterus, that is why today they say that a woman is only a person with menstrual condition, and we know that not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u379	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u380	On behalf of the gender, they have taken the place that belongs to women. And who says this today is cancelled, especially by women who said they wanted to conquer this space for women. This is treason, these millions are not really to dignify women, but we are going to correct this in time. That is why, today, we can adopt a proposal that helps women who want to leave the system that most objects and mercantilizes them, and I am talking about prostitution. We are told that girls and women enter this system at the age of 14 on average. 96% of traffic victims are for sexual exploitation, girls and women. 9 out of every 10 women would abandon this system if they actually had exit and alternative paths. That is why we are calling for the establishment of prevention centres and measures to support the exit of the prostitution system today. We know that this is fair, that it is necessary and truly dignified the woman.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u381	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u382	No serious person, no good person, can actually suck this proposal. What I ask is that they vote in conscience. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u383	Let us turn to proposal 1435 - C of the Czech Republic to add Article 139. -A— Creation of housing allowance for the workers of the hotel, restaurant and café sectors (HORECA ) during the high season. Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u384	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this proposal from the Arrival aims to bring back what is a right of workers. We know the importance of the tourism sector for our country, we know what the region of the Algarve represents in this contribution to the tourism of our country and increasingly the sectors of hotels, restaurants, cafes have difficulty in hiring, even if it is seasonally, these workers. Why? Because what they pay is not enough for the workers to pay, even, the residence in that period in which they are displaced in the Algarve. Thus, the arrival proposes what seems to be a proposal, at least, meets these needs of both the sector and the workers, in which the government, together with the Algarve Tourism Region, creates a housing allowance, which will be paid during the designated high time. It seems to us that the most basic justice of all rests a right and overcomes a difficulty of the sector and of workers. Thus the Socialist Party understands it, so the Socialist Party wants to move, again, the tourism sector in the Algarve. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u385	Mr Filipe Melo, I would like to add that the proposal for Amendment No 1460 - C on the same article of the bill was also underlying his speech. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u386	Mr President, this is another proposal that has to do with the needs of people and families. in this case, what the arrival proposes—in fact, perfectly aligned with the Confederation of Enterprises of Portugal—is honestly compensating the Portuguese families throughout this path that have made it very difficult to raise interest rates, to raise inflation and to lose quality of life: the 15. the free month of IRS rate. It is not a measure that will take money from the state’s coffers, simply the State ceases to repay more than it can already charge to Portuguese families. It is to give the Portuguese a little more dignity, in order to be able to pay accounts which, unfortunately, have not been able to pay the 14 wages they earn during the year, without the companies and without the workers themselves having to pay the very high IRS rates they pay in the other 14 months. It is a simple measure which aims to give families a little more financial relief in their lives and which, I say, in no way penalizes the State. It is a last chance that this government and the socialist board that supports it have to show Portuguese families whether or not they actually give the support that families deserve and that families need, at such a troubled time in their lives. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u387	We move on to proposal 1679 - C of the PS to add Article 139. o -A. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u388	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members over the past eight years have been public investments in the area of road in the district of Santarém. We remember ER361 ( regional road No. 361 ), in Alcanena, we remember IC2 ( supplementary route No. 2 ) in Rio Major, we also remember the reduction of the tolls of A23 ( motorway No. 23 ) and A13 ( motorway No. 13 ), we remember the PART ( Tax Reduction Programme in Public Transport ), we remember the investment in rail or railway operations of the Shipment. Investments have been made over the last few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u389	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u390	Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in the Santarém district were always on the side of the resolution, also in the debates of the State budgets. That's how it was at Rio Major's Higher Sports School. It was also at the National Railway Museum, at the Entronicamento, and this is also when presenting this proposal on the Chamusca. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the municipality of Chamusca accepted, a few years ago, the hazardous waste from all over the country, two CIRVER (integrated centres for recovery, recovery and disposal of hazardous waste). Territorial cohesion, security and integrity force the State to find a solution and that is the proposal of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u391	It was done in a hurry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u392	We cannot allow it for a matter of morality: if Chamusca has accepted to solve the country's problem, the country also has to solve this problem. For this reason, the Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, who in the parliamentary days held in the Santarém district noticed this problem closely, put forward this proposal, which aims to seek a solution to a problem for which, over many years, several governments, from various parties, have not found a solution. It is time to try to solve it, once and for all, because the population of Chamusca, the population of that region, the population of the district of Santarém thus deserves it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u393	To intervene on the proposal 1693 - C, of the PS, to add an article 179. o -A, you have the floor to Mrs. Susana Barroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u394	Mr. President, I welcome you. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Mrs. Members, in recent years, generally and throughout Europe, interest rates have had one of the greatest increases in history. In order to encourage the urgent response needed to combat this situation, the Government has promoted a number of ways of support, not only for families, but also for businesses. Portugal is one of the countries in Europe that has done the most, and so continues. In addition to all the support already known, it has also been created, for families with difficulty in lending to housing, a mechanism for fixing interest, thereby lowering their benefits. A clearly necessary mechanism, to which thousands of families are already accessing, so that they can cope and overcome the difficulties of the current environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is precisely on the basis of this context that the Socialist Party proposes in this State Budget that a similar mechanism be created, but now for companies, in order that, over the next few years, it is possible to mitigate the pressure of treasury which, within the limit, could lead to the strangulation of companies and endanger jobs. in the same way that has already benefited, and well, many families, it is now time for this mechanism to come to help thousands of companies — micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and also IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) — from north to south of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As during the pandemic and over the past few years, we have been and are on the side of companies, on the investment side and on the development side, presenting appropriate conditions and support at every moment and every setting, according to the scenarios that are presented to us. And, yes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they may well try to deny it, but it is because we maintain this coherent stance that we beat employment records and export records. The right says and repeats, I suppose, in the hope that this becomes true, that this Budget and this policy are not for businesses, but reality and companies themselves are actually responsible for unmasking your speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u395	For an intervention now within the framework of proposals 1701 - C and 1718 - C of the PS Parliamentary Group on the addition of Article 139. o -A, you have the word Mrs. Sara Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u396	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents two important amendments to the State budget, one in the area of infrastructure and one in the area of defence of our heritage. In the first, in the area of infrastructure, we gave up an old and very important claim of the Leiria region, the re-qualification of the CI8 ( Supplementary Route No 8 ), proposing that in 2024, the Government should take the necessary steps to initiate road safety studies and carry out projects with a view to their re-qualification. This is an important infrastructure that links the coast to the interior of the country and whose requalification has been urgent for many years, not only to solve the serious scourge of road fatality, which also occurs there, but also to contribute to the territorial cohesion and economic development of the Centre of the Country. In the area of heritage, we present the proposal which defines that, during the year 2024, and according to the results of the studies carried out, the Government will initiate the necessary and appropriate measures for the protection of the Battle Monastery, in order to defend it from the impact that it suffers daily with road traffic in the IC2, particularly by heavy vehicles, which is therefore subject to possible cleaning, which has caused visible effects on the erosion of the white limestone with which it is built. With this proposal, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group aims to defend one of the largest assets in the Leiria, Country and World region, since it is a monument classified as World Heritage by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization). With these two proposals, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we fulfil commitments that we have signed with the peoples and territories that we represent and once again give meaning to that which we say is a mantra, but which we always repeat, with great pride: "The word given is an honest word. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u397	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u398	To speak by the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Infrastructure, Frederico Francisco. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke recently about rail, and now there is a set of proposals on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u400	Call Galamba!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u401	It is true that there are still many road investments to do in the country, and we do not have the ability to do all of us at once, but I wanted to leave two notes: we are aware that the crossing of Chamusca by dangerous waste trucks is a problem and solve it - it corresponds to a debt for decades to these populations. We are working on it, planning a solution to finally solve this problem. I would like to recall that, whether or not many proposals have a place in the State budget — the State budget is not the place to define the term and planning of works — we are now launching the largest road work ever done with funds from the State budget: the work of the IP3 ( main route No 3 ). [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u402	For an intervention under the proposal 1797 - C of the PS Parliamentary Group on the addition of Article 139. o -A, you have the floor to Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u403	Mr President, I welcome the members of the Government, the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented this proposal to amend the State budget towards the Government during the year 2024 to promote a new generation of social networks. It will be referred to as the social network for social and local development and will serve to promote its best effectiveness, to have greater links with local, regional and national actors and to further promote social and economic cohesion in all territories. The Social Network program, after 20 years of implementation by the governments of the Socialist Party, continues to be innovative, visionary and revolutionary. Its governance is integrated because it involves all community partners and is governed by the principles of democracy, solidarity, transparency and cooperation. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants to go further and extend social networking partnerships to the economic sector, making new partners innovate in solutions for employability, innovation and entrepreneurship. It also wants to empower and operationalize national strategies — such as poverty reduction, integration of people in homeless situations, inclusion of people with disabilities, protection of children, and others — through social networks, which will be the engine for their implementation at local level, because the Social Network programme is the most just, more supportive and democratic political measure, because it combats poverty, exclusion, inequality, domestic violence, gender violence, all kinds of violence against the groups of most vulnerable people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the same time, this programme also promotes the economic and social development of the territories and makes each institution, each company and each person feel responsible and motivated to be part of the problem solving of their municipality and region, in a real network work, partnership, collective effectiveness. To rule with social networks is not only to rule for people, but above all to rule with people. The social networks of local and social development are the social policies of the future. And again, by the hand of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u404	Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u405	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u406	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u407	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic, I would like to welcome the presence in the galleries of Tino Chrupalla and Marine Le Pen, which today call on us to visit this Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u408	Mr. President, what is this? It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u409	So let us proceed with our debate. Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government of the Socialist Party has the mark of, throughout these 50 years of democracy, fighting for the deepening and consolidation of a model of social protection that allows the creation of a more just and inclusive society. in this sense, all proposals aimed at strengthening this model of social security participated and linked with civil society, with the social sector and with local power are fundamental. Social security is an engine of social transformation and this effort of partnership with the social sector must continue to be careful, in order to be more effective in combating poverty and social inequalities. I therefore support the speech of the honourable Member to create the best conditions for this path to continue to be pursued and we can count on the confidence of the Portuguese to deepen our ability to respond to the wishes and expectations of the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u411	Mr Secretary of State for Social Security, the Bureau only records an entry for requests for clarification by the Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group Clara Marques Mendes. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u412	I would like to congratulate Mr President, Mr President. Members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Secretary of State, in view of your intervention, there seems to me to be a great contradiction here between what you just said and the votes that took place yesterday afternoon. Mr Secretary of State said that he wanted to make an effort to continue working with the social sector, but last afternoon the Socialist Party led proposals submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group, precisely in the direction of strengthening with the social sector, in particular the updates of the cooperation agreements. So I ask: will the Socialist Party go back and do what it should do, which is to recognize that the social sector does what the State does not do? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u413	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u414	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the Socialist Party Government has worked hand in hand with social sector partners over recent years. The evidence of this is the very significant updates we have had in this cooperation commitment, and even now we are in negotiations with the social sector partners, so that these updates continue to take place. Therefore, of all things you can accuse us, less of the lack of effort, which we have done in recent years, that this partnership and this cooperation will continue to be deepened. We did it and we will continue to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u415	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have no further requests for intervention. So let us move on to the conclusion of these work, giving the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has information to give to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u416	Mr President, it is to realize that you attended this meeting by video conference, Mrs Natalia Oliveira of the Socialist Party, and Mr João Azevedo Castro of the Socialist Party as well. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-11-24.u417	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce the agenda for Monday 27. We have three points on our agenda: first point, discussion of the rules avocados; second point, voting on those standards; and third point, continuation of the debate, in the speciality, of the State budget. I mean, once again, that our work will start again, then, on 27th, at 10 a.m. All the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, continuation of a good day and a good weekend. Thank you very much. [[It was 13 hours and 28 minutes.]]
