ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u1	Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister and the Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of the social communication and security forces. We have quorum, so we will start our work today. [[It was 15 hours and 12 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, to give the usual information. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u2	Madam President, very late for everyone. I'm taking note of the appearance coming from 14. the Commission, for the purpose of concluding the mandate of Manuel Vicente de Sousa Lima Loff, of the CFP, for the purpose of the waiver of the mandate of Mrs Diana Jorge Martins Ferreira, and this proposal fulfils the legal requirements, with effect from 7 March 2023, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u4	We're here, too, from 14. the Commission, the opinion on the resumption of the mandate of Mrs Andreia Carina Machado da Silva Neto, elected by the PSD, in the electoral circle of Porto, thus discontinuing the duties of Mrs Rosina Patrícia Ribeiro Pereira, with effect from 7 March 2023, including. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I will take it that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 517 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 519 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 523 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission. The Bill Nos 603 / XV / 1 entered. a ( CH) and 607 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 5. the Commission, 608 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 609 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 610 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 611 / XV / 1. a ( BE). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because today is International Women's Day, allow me to greet all the women of this House, all the women who are present today, including those who are in the galleries, the Portuguese women, the women of the world, and to give them the poem Woman, by José Carlos Ary dos Santos. If you allow me, as poetry requires silence, step to read: « The woman is not only home / woman-loise, woman-bed / she is also woman-asa, / woman-force, woman-call/ And it is necessary to say/ of that old condition/ the woman knows how to bring / the head and the heart / Bring the factory to her home/ and ordered to the kitchen/ and imposed to work/ why she always had / Work not only of birth/ but also of construction/ for a child to grow up/ for a child are/ The possession will end/ in the time of freedom/ what matters is knowing / together standing on equality/ Since things become/ in what people want/ it is equal to tell my man/ or tell my wife». [[General applause.]] Let us now begin the first item on our agenda, which consists of the thematic debate required by the PSD on domestic violence. In order to intervene on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we celebrate the International Women's Day, a day adopted by the United Nations to mark the rights that women have won so far, in an arduous and difficult struggle for social, political and economic rights, as well as the continuing fight for gender equality. In the 21st century, at this time in Iran, there are hundreds of girls poisoned in schools for wanting to learn and women who fight for their rights suffer violent reprisals, at risk of life, as well as men who fight alongside them. In Afghanistan, the Taliban regime is doing everything to annihilate women, ignoring their access to education and denying them all and any right to freedom, in a repulsive process of dehumanization. I speak of human rights, and International Women's Day is the day of the struggle for human rights. Therefore, the PSD has scheduled this debate on domestic violence for this day, with all the symbolic burden and the historical weight that March 8 has. Domestic violence is a scourge that is transversally fattened in Portuguese society and is a structural problem that has grown exponentially. In 2022, 24 women and 4 children were murdered. This year, two women have already died at the hands of their cotton. Yesterday, the day of national mourning was marked by victims of domestic violence, in honor of the victims and their families. When this day of mourning ceases to be necessary, on that day, we will be able to celebrate the victory of mankind. [[PSD applause.]] In general, the legal regime which prevents domestic violence and which integrates the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention is properly structured, constituting an effective regulatory set of measures in the prevention and fight against domestic violence, as well as in the aid and monitoring of victims of this type of crime, requiring, however, some adjustments, something that the PSD intends to address with the legislative initiatives it has presented. It is different to know how this legal regime is being applied in practice and the means, equipment and facilities necessary for its effectiveness must be put in place. Now, in this matter, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has failed abruptly. The lack of human resources and resources is grueling and is seeing what is happening with the lack of implementation of the specialized sections of domestic violence, the SEIVD, due to lack of means. The analysis of existing SEIVDs allowed us to conclude that they reinforce the functional activity of the Public Ministry, enabling greater attention to the victims of the crime, with particular emphasis on the special measure of protection of the early trial, as well as the rapid institution of promotion and protection measures, and civil protective procedures, in conjunction with the family and minor courts. However, the lack of prosecutors and judicial officers, as well as the lack of facilities, do not even allow SEIVD to be implemented in the Procuratories of Aveiro, Braga, Lisboa, Norte and Faro, nor complement that of the District of Lisbon West, however necessary, in view of the exponential increase in complaints and fatal outcomes. This shocking lack of means is exclusively attributable to the government, which « has the knife and cheese in hand » and does nothing. It is shocking to see the lack of training in many criminal police bodies, as well as the lack of human resources and facilities to accommodate victims; it is shocking to see the lack of training in this issue of too many judges and prosecutors, with serious reflections on the lives of victims and their families. To address this problem, the PSD proposes effective strengthening, specialized training and training of professionals involved in this area. It shocks the lack of means for performing rapid medical and legal expertise and the malfunction of shelters. The risk assessment records for the protection of victims fail, and the processes take years to pass into trial, destroying the lives of adults and children. In the case of domestic violence, there is particular concern, due to the fragility of its victims, violence against the elderly. The PSD presented two initiatives to protect the elderly, one for the strengthening of measures to prevent and combat domestic violence against the elderly, and the other proposing the criminalization of a set of conduct, aiming at the protection of property and the administration of goods, as well as the safeguarding of decision-making in an autonomous and clear manner. The elderly have been forgotten and even neglected in the prevention policies of this type of crime. We talk about violence against the elderly in their homes, by their families, and also in the homes of the elderly, whose surveillance and supervision provided for in the law, in practice, does not work. All we have to do is see the latest news on television about what has happened in the homes of elderly people. Particularly alarming is also the violence in dating, not only for the violence in the present, but also for the projection of behaviors for future society, and the government does nothing. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD proposes measures to prevent and combat gender-based violence, as well as the extension of rehabilitation programmes to aggressors who have committed domestic violence as a way to prevent and combat the incidence of this crime and also to ensure the special protection of immigrant women, undocumented, victims of violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u8	I shall conclude, Madam President. With the initiatives presented, we intend to make a strong contribution to the prevention and fight against the horror of domestic violence, which is a struggle for all and which everyone must convene. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u9	Let's start the stage of the debate. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's International Women's Day, allow me to start with a special greeting to all women and thanks for the courage of those who are fighting for gender equality every day. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not only a task of women, but a task for which the whole of society is called. I also leave a word of solidarity to women still oppressed today and a word of encouragement to all, so that we continue the struggle for an increasingly equal society. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is symbolic that in the House of Democracy today there is a debate on domestic violence, a greater expression of inequality between men and women. This scourge does not choose social class, ethnicity or age, and requires a serene debate, without demagogy, without political use and without exploitation of suffering. We can't, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ignore the silence of suffering, the shame of taking on aggression, hiding the marks of violence, or the aggressor's apology, assuming the victim's guilt, alone and without pain. Ignoring cannot be part of our daily lives when we talk about physical and psychological aggressions, whether against children, women, men or the elderly. Today, we know that domestic violence is one of the most shared crimes among the authorities, because it has changed from paradigm to public crime just over 20 years ago, which has allowed it to be visible and audible today, which was often invisible and silent. We go through a paradigm shift, which is to underline, finally starting society to get rid of the retrograde vision that « between husband and wife, do not get caught up». Today, fortunately, in a free society, which allows the subject to be discussed openly, in various forums and without taboos, the silence of the victims, or their closest ones, and of the whole society can have an end. It is therefore necessary to report! In 2022, the complaints registered by the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) increased : there were 30,000 occurrences, almost 4000 more than in the previous year, and increased the number of aggressors serving effective prison sentence. In December 2022, there were 1236 aggressors arrested, 955 of whom were convicted and effectively sentenced to imprisonment, and the remaining in pretrial detention. I leave a final number: we know that, during last year, by judicial decision, 4587 victims were covered by protection measures, including panic buttons or electronic alerts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fight that is not just going through the judicial process. The Government has special responsibilities in supporting the victims and, in this respect, there are innumerable figures to understand how we have advanced, over the years, in this daily struggle. In 2015, the National Domestic Violence Victim Support Network covered only 55% of our territory; today, this network now covers 95 %, I repeat, 95 % of the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last year, this network responded to some 150,000 visits, including 52,000 victims. These are numbers that should embarrass us because they exist, but which should also deserve the praise of all those who accompany these victims and who give them the hope of a new start in their lives. There are more numbers worth stressing: today we have 26 foster and emergency homes, with a total of 260 vacancies, and 35 shelters, with 631 vacancies. In total, the country has 891 vacancies for the reception of victims of domestic violence, reception, this, emergency. These houses received more than 3000 victims only last year, of which more than 2000 were in emergency reception. This is a response in which the victim initiates his/her personal reconstruction, with psychological, legal and financial support. It is therefore a first step at the beginning of a new life. There are several responses in the area of domestic violence, such as various actors, from the Government to civil society organizations, to whom I leave a word of thanks for the work they contribute daily to respond to the difficulties that accompany them in such cases. The creation of specialized responses for public with specific problems is another of the dimensions I want to underline. Let me note, here and today, the renewal of six protocols for the Offices of Care for Victims of Gender Violence in the courts, as well as the celebration of two more, in Porto and Aveiro, thus increasing territorial coverage, with the intended response to the courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about domestic violence is also about prevention. We cannot therefore talk about domestic violence without talking about the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence, which includes very varied measures, such as, for example, specific training for those who work with children and young people, since this problem has often started since very early. Unfortunately, the children are witnessing the deviant behaviors of abusers in the family environment, then passing on to the violence in dating. There is a number that speaks for you: in 2022, 24 women — 24 women! — and four children were murdered in our country; on average, two women were murdered per month. In the world, a woman is murdered every 10 minutes, as reported last week by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres. This is a number that shames us all, a number that no modern, evolved and tolerant society can accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you: the issue of domestic violence is a question of society and human rights; it is not a matter for any parliamentary group to make it a political weapon of political assault. This is even a time when the whole House, Government and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we can fight and fight domestic violence together. That is why I would like to welcome the PSD Parliamentary Group and thank you for bringing this issue to debate, but I would also like to welcome the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, not only for choosing this as one of its causes, but for the excellent report that was requested by the Economic and Social Council, which is a good instrument of work, so that this House and the Government can look into new measures to be adopted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me one last word, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to say that this is not a problem that is resolved with more legislation, with more articles, or with more law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u11	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u12	What is really necessary is that all agents apply the law, that the government continue to implement measures that support the victims and, above all, that all of us can do what we have to do: protect the victims and educate them for citizenship, preventing domestic violence from early on, because it is intolerable in any decent society and in any society that wants to be more and more equal. Let us therefore take advantage of this debate to build solutions and not to attack, because it is enough that victims are even penalized, that it is that they cannot have equal opportunities in a decent society like Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u13	Mrs. Minister, you have three requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u14	Madam President, I will respond to everything together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u15	All right, Mrs. Minister. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u16	Madam President, Minister : Maria Otília Borges, 46 years old, suffocated by her husband, being the couple in the divorce process and having the victim filed a complaint for domestic violence at the PSP ; Cláudia Serra, 40 years old, shot in the head by the former husband, having had history of violence; Sara Barros, 42 years old, shot in the head at the door of the house, had already filed a complaint at the PSP ; Celestina Ferreira, 52 years old, killed with a shot in the head by the former husband, having been filed a complaint three months ago at the GNR ; Marta Carvalho, 47 years old, two shots in the head, had filed, on March 23, a complaint for domestic violence. And the names continue, woman after woman; women murdered after having filed complaints, there are cases where the authorities knew the history of violence against these women. When the Minister says that no more laws are needed, no more articles are needed, the Istanbul Convention disagrees. It has now been said in the Council of Europe's assessment of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention in Portugal in the article on sexual violence — including rape and sexual harassment — that a telephone line is missing for abuse and that Portugal can do more. Portugal may also recognize rape as a public crime, in fact, as recommended by the Istanbul Convention. The only reason he does not do so is because the conservativeism of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group prevents him and there is no majority in this House to do so. [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]] But even if you did not need more laws and we were here discussing resources, I would like to know — we have asked you so many times! — where are the resources of the specialized sections of domestic violence, which were those responsible for assessing the risk of each of these women — Sandra, Marta, Celestina, Sara, Cládia — all those who were murdered with past complaints and violence by husbands. Where are the resources? If the laws are already there to save them, why didn't they save them? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u17	For a request for clarification, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u18	Madam President, today I also leave a special greeting on Women's Day. Allow me also to say that it was with great pleasure that I suddenly looked and saw that there were only women in the use of the word, including Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD. It was good that it was like this every day. Yes, Madam Minister, you are right: we must not demagogy, we must not make a political chicana on this subject. Let me quote Miguel Lorente-Acosta, who says the following about domestic violence: «I do not want to do good autopsies of murdered women, I want to deal with the causes. » And that is what the PSD wants, to deal with the causes, today, as always—as the Minister knows, indeed, of all the sessions we have. The numbers are scary, they continue to be higher and higher. Just look at the evolutions of crime in domestic and gender violence, against the elderly, in dating, and the exponential increase that we have in these cases. That means there's more to do, much more to do. But in addition — and in this case, let me disagree with you, Madam Minister — there are things we need to do also in the legislation. in this context, I point out the study of the CEJ ( Centro de Estudos Judiciários ), which referred to, which mentions the legal deprotection that migrant women have, especially undocumented women. precisely because of this gap in the legal system, the PSD presented a project to protect these undocumented women for a year, which would allow them, in case of domestic violence, to have the opportunity to complain without fear of being deported. What is at stake is the protection of the victim and the possibility of defending this human right. The first question I leave to you, Mrs Minister, is this: will the government be with us, in this proposal, following the recommendations of the ECJ itself and international bodies? It was important to know. [[PSD applause.]] In addition, within the framework of the legislation, there is still another project presented by the PSD, which has to do with the protection of the elderly, both personal and institutional protection, creating, precisely, new criminalizations regarding the heritage aspect of the life of the elderly. We all know that, not rarely, the elderly are instrumentalized and have just had to take part in their heritage. Even if it is understood that they are not incapacitated, they are in fact, because they are dependent and are polished by relatives, by friends, by caregivers, even by institutions. Therefore, we understand that it is essential that the law clearly introduces these situations. Will they also be with us in this proposal? This is not to do politicism, that is to think about people, think about the lives of so many people, who need help so much. It was also essential — in addition to the other projects that we will still have time to discuss during this debate, Mrs Minister — to know whether the Government, which calls for unity, which calls for us all to be together in a fight that is of all — and that the PSD has always taken up as one of them all, will go beyond words and then, in law and law, will be with us. It is that, Madam Minister, this is a matter of everyone, for everyone and for all, and sometimes the compressor roll of the absolute majority thinks that only he knows and does not have to listen to others in all matters. in this, it was important that you listen. But it was also important, in addition to the intentions...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u19	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u20	I will now conclude, Madam President, just one more second. Mrs. Minister, every day we will hear reports, which are very worrying, of the lack of means on the ground. Will we also have this effective strengthening of means? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u21	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u22	Madam President, Bureau Secretaries, Secretary of State, Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on International Women's Day — and worker, as originally called — I ask three simple questions. The first is about the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which expired in 2021. I think this is the fourth time I ask this question and so far, less fortunate than the one I hope to have today, I still haven't heard about a new plan. The second question relates to the extension of unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence at their request. It is a commitment from the State budget to 2022. The government told us that it was waiting for the approval of the dignified work agenda. It is approved and therefore we hope to see the implementation of this measure, because we know that economic dependence is often one of the aspects that leads people to be in a situation of greater risk to their own health. Thirdly, the electronic complaint portal has ceased to have an anonymous form of access and, although it has some new valences, from a computer point of view, has become more difficult to use. I would ask you to pay some attention to this aspect, because we want to facilitate access—and, above all, anonymous access—to this portal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u23	In reply, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to thank the questions put by Mrs Joana Mortágua and Mrs Emília Cerqueira, and Mr Rui Tavares. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: we have no doubt that domestic violence and, in particular, the crime of domestic violence is a heinous crime that everyone — everyone! — we condemn. We all condemn it, precisely because it is a violation of the most basic human dignity — whether violence against women, which is mostly violence against men, against children or against the elderly. Therefore, starting from this assumption, I think it is necessary to find solutions that go by correcting what needs to be corrected and accelerating the measures that need to be accelerated, hence the State budget for 2023 has strengthened funds in various dimensions either in prevention or in combating domestic violence. Mrs. Joana Mortágua, the protocols for the Victim Support Offices ( GAV ) were renewed today, with the courts. I remember that there are six cabinets, since 2019, whose protocols have been renewed today. Two more protocols were signed for a new Victim Support Office in Aveiro and one in Porto. Also today, it was assumed by the Minister of Justice that at least two more support offices will be opened each year to the courts. These offices are absolutely essential because they are linked to the training that must be given to judges and security forces—and, over the past year, there were 3,500 trainees—to ensure that the law that exists is applied and that those who deal directly with these issues are able to manage and do what they have to do. That is why, yes, we are all, and also the government, committed to those that must be the answers that the Portuguese State has to give. In addition to this, I have said, over the years, that it cannot be shared by several entities, but that it must be concentrated. I therefore hope that this same mechanism, which has thousands of telephone services, will be renewed in the coming years, in response to these incidents. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, the resources are reflected in the various programmes that have been approved over these years, and are contained in the State budget. in this context, Mr Rui Tavares — and I will now reply to Mrs Emília Cerqueira — I hope that in the coming days, and it is no longer long ago, the third National Plan for Equality will go to the Council of Ministers and that another set of significant measures will be adopted in this area. As for the portal, I appreciate the note, I'm gonna try to figure out what happened. right now, I have no answer to give you, but I'm going to try and find out and I-I'll-I'll-I'll-I'll-l. With regard to unemployment allowance, the Agenda for Worthy Work was approved and the unemployment allowance was approved in the 2022 budget. I know we are late, but the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has committed herself to this being a priority in the near future, so it will also come soon. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I thank you for your speech and your questions. With regard to the first question, I would like to say that, fortunately, Portugal is an open society today. over time we have talked about integration and reception policies, which do not exclude the size of women victims of domestic violence. That is why, at the National Centre for Support for Migrant Integration (CNAIM ), there are offices to support the victim of domestic violence, whose network is made with local centres for support for migrants, where migrant women can resort not only to all other State responses, but also to this specific response. Regarding domestic violence against the elderly, it unfortunately grew and grew during the pandemic. I have already had the opportunity to announce, in this House, some answers to this problem, such as the support house for elderly victims, in Grândola and in Mangualde. The Mangualde House is more advanced in its restructuring, but I hope that by summer both can be open, so that we will continue to respond to these people. These are the first two houses to respond to domestic violence against the elderly, but we must continue to work so that this age group is not excluded from the answers absolutely necessary to combat domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u25	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Faro of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u26	Madam President, Mrs Minister, Secretary of State, Faces of Members, Dear Members : We are talking about domestic violence, which, today, we are all summoned. We talk about violence that occurs in a family context, against older people and against children. We speak of the violence that takes place in contexts of intimacy and, therefore, we cannot fail to refer to gender-based violence — violence perpetrated against women, because she is a woman. This symbolic day will be the day to remember, indeed, how much we still need to do — that we are concerned and we regret — but we cannot forget what has already been done. Prevention and combating domestic violence have assumed the political centrality of all socialist governments, not only in direct combat, but generally also in combating inequality and poverty. We guide our action for the protection of victims, but also for a strong commitment to prevention, contributing to their empowerment and autonomy. When we speak in combat, we must remember that, in this scourge, together with the punishment, the rehabilitation of aggressors and the development of the community, thus encouraging the social recognition of the problem, we also prioritize support with measures to protect victims, which have already been listed here, especially with the creation and strengthening of the National Network of Support for Victims of Domestic Violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u27	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting, but I wanted to make a call to the House to keep more quiet. All matters discussed here are important, but this is particularly important. It happens that today, I don't know why, the sound is very bad and we are very hard to hear from each other, that is, to be able to hear the speakers. Therefore, if there is more silence, it will be easier. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. The National Domestic Violence Support Network currently covers 95 % of our territory. In 2022, as mentioned above, we increased to 55 vacancies in the reception network, which includes emergency reception vacancies and house vacancies. There is also the forecast of the opening of 5 vacancies in the reception for men, victims of domestic violence, as well as special attention will be given to care and reception structures, increasingly specialized and that meet the different needs of LGBTQI+ people (Lesbics, Gays, Bisexuals, Transgender, Queer or Questioners and Intersex), people with mental health problems, disabled persons, immigrants and also older people. of the 3125 people in 2022, in foster homes and in emergency reception, allow me to highlight that 95 were over 65 years old. This is a fact that, indeed, we are concerned not only at the level of reception but also at the level of care, with more than 52 000 people, of whom 3682 were over 65 years old, requiring special reference and assistance to violence against the elderly. Therefore, the creation of structures specifically directed to older people was a priority of this government, and two protocols were created and signed, as the Minister has already mentioned, which are already moving forward, already in work, in Grândola and Mangualde. We also pay particular attention to the responses for children and young people. It is very important to respond to psychological support that is already in full operation, with positive feedback, especially in minimizing damage. It should be noted that these 31 teams are in operation, are on the ground and are, in fact, threatening all the damage caused to children in the context of violence. Nor can I mention the importance of the Annual Plan of Joint Training in Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, when the lack of training of all professionals was so mentioned. I would add that this annual plan includes five government areas and that 312 training actions have already been carried out together, involving more than 2900 participations. I refer, and I reiterate, to the importance of strengthening the State budget in combating and preventing domestic violence. We continue to strengthen this national victim support network and highlight the recent opening of a LGBTQI+ community support office in Guimarães, an extremely innovative project that works with the family and involves the community, which is extremely important. I would also like to mention the two protocols recently signed in Aveiro and Porto, more specifically in the Penafiel Council, for the GAVs in the Departments of Investigation and Criminal Action ( DIAP ), as well as the confirmation that the existing protocols will also be renewed, as mentioned by the Minister. Dear Members, this path is being made, day by day, every day. We continue without giving up, insisting on network work, collaborative work, with the specialized support of the whole community. This path — day by day, every day — has something that, against us, runs: time, which is something that the victims also do not have, as we well know. However, public policies, measures and instruments created do not have immediate effects, as everyone knows. There is a strong commitment, indeed, in a set of long-term measures, to achieve lasting results, as well as in the recognition of the importance of a robust support system, which effectively protects victims and increases their confidence to denounce. thus the great commitment of this government to prevention. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions. Only with this collective commitment can we effectively change this reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u29	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u30	Madam President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Patrícia Faro, following her speech, let me also stress that violence against women and domestic violence is neither acceptable nor acceptable. In addition, Mrs Deputies, the strength of a democracy is measured precisely by the way they treat the weakest. in this context, it should also be recalled, as the honourable Member mentioned, that more than 30% of cases of domestic violence reported to the security forces were seen by minors. Moreover, in Portugal, according to data from the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ), domestic violence crime is the most common criminal type. In 2022, the numbers reported to the security forces are even worse than those reached in previous years. There was an increase in the occurrence register, which was 14 % higher than in the previous year. This value is the highest, since the last few years, so these numbers cannot leave us indifferent. Mrs Deputy, the institutions in Portugal are calling for this problem. We, Parliament, and you, in government, cannot fail the summons! Moreover, we recall the following: due to the high number of deaths in this context, the Government appointed a multidisciplinary technical committee at the beginning of 2019 to present proposals for improving the fight against domestic violence. However, Mrs Deputy, as we know, the appointment of a technical committee by the Government is not enough, and there are measures proposed by this committee and approved by the Government which have not yet been implemented all these years. We see three cases, in particular: firstly, the creation and implementation of emergency intervention networks, which are not yet on the ground; secondly, the review of the victim's risk assessment and management model, which is still to be implemented; thirdly, the creation of the violence database against women and domestic violence, which is under development—there is a working group, but so little has been achieved. Clearly, our democracy cannot fail. It is urgent to make every effort to reverse the rise of domestic violence numbers, whose size is intolerable. But for this reason it is not enough to appoint committees, it is not enough to approve proposals, it is necessary to carry out and execute them. And in this context — I believe that the honourable Member will agree with the PSD — it is essential that the Government fulfil its role and implement the measures already duly identified and approved. Our question, Mrs Deputy, is as follows: the need for the implementation of these instruments I mentioned is based on the PSD draft resolution which you entered here yesterday. Will the PS monitor the PSD on the importance of these instruments for combating domestic violence? Just to finish, I mean that democratic institutions must have the honesty to assume, for each victim of domestic violence, that they have failed and that admission should serve to avoid more victims in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u31	In reply, Mrs Patrícia Faro, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u32	Madam President, I am grateful for the question raised by Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira. I think I mentioned at the outset — I think it would have been a lapse or the way I have expressed myself — violence against women, gender-based violence are being attacked by human rights in which we are, of course, intolerant. Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira refers to the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 139 / 2019, where some areas of work were effectively listed, including the 72-hour working group after the complaint. I am aware—until requests for information come to us in that sense—that it is working, it is working. There is, in fact, almost completed work within the database and I believe that the SGMAI ( Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration) has already made a regulation and is therefore moving forward. With regard to the risk assessment sheet, I must say that it is something extremely important and we are also concerned, and we have repeatedly called for this review to be initiated because it is already dated. We also know that there is already a competition to start this reformulation of the risk assessment form, which is extremely important. For other projects, the so-called RUI (intervention network) or RIVD (intervention networks in the area of violence) are currently moving forward, being thought out, but are waiting for the best location, because there is a need to make resources profitable and not to use new resources. So this is our position and we believe that these work that is already in operation, and with this working group, will give an end to these answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u33	To make an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u34	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, March 7, the National Day of Struggle by the Victims of Domestic Violence. Domestic violence is a problem of very perverse contours, since it occurs within the family, so often far from the eyes of society and involving psychological coercion of the victims. The Liberal Initiative is in solidarity with all those who are affected by this scourge and we will continue to contribute to the enhancement of awareness and training around this issue. The Members of this House took possession almost a year ago. A year of divergences, open debates and defining political and parliamentary priorities taking into account the electoral objectives of each bench. There were plenary sessions and committee meetings, where the various problems brought to the table were discussed and the points of view, from left to right, of each of them resolution. However, only one theme was really consensual to all political parties: the scourge of domestic violence—and it is not difficult to understand why. Only in the last quarter of 2022 9000 complaints were made to the authorities, which alone would be enough to prove that it is not being done enough. However, the problem is far deeper than these 9000 complaints and there were more than 30 000 complaints in 2022, the worst year of the last four. These complaints add up to the worst of the indicators: 28 murders, of which four were children. Portugal has only 3000 people in aggressors programs. We can't say it's done enough. It is necessary to recognize that we are able to improve, under the penalty of a real social tragedy that has taken more than 100 lives in the past four years. These numbers add to the feeling that we can just stand at the tip of an iceberg, among victims who never speak, and crimes that repeat, sometimes without account, the greatest characteristic of domestic violence along with silent suffering. The Liberal Initiative contributed to this fight and saw a bill being approved, however already published in the Journal of the Republic, which amended the Civil Procedure Code, exempting the attempt to reconcile the divorce proceedings without mutual consent, in which one of the spouses is targeted in a domestic violence process. However, incomprehensiblely, he also saw a bill falling down whose objective, noble and relevant, as several entities also said, would be to empower the crime of exposure of minors to situations of domestic violence. The rule of law must protect the most fragile, and the most fragile, in a situation of domestic violence, are also children, although they do not always suffer directly from domestic violence and in an individualized way. We must therefore consider that this Parliament has failed to bring about the proposal for the empowerment of this crime, thus giving a very clear signal to society that domestic violence is limited to physical violence among spouses. No, sir. Members, psychological or financial violence is also synonymous with domestic violence and an expression of violence much more difficult to perceive and fight as a society and legislator. Having said this, it will be necessary to go further and ensure that this House takes the right steps on the path of signaling to society the importance and urgency of the fight against a very specific crime and which, unfortunately, is very widespread. The next steps for us are clear. First, we will enter a project that aims to add to the causes of successive dignity the conviction by transit in trial for the practice of the crime of domestic violence, because we do not accept that someone who violence others can inherit from the person who raids. Secondly, we will insist on the training that the Ministry of Justice must give to judges, strengthening the measures already proposed in the State budget and which have been adopted unanimously and which is why it is important to strengthen and start implementing on a large scale. Finally, we will not run away from the debate on judicial reformulation and criminal specialization. If it works and it's a bet from other jurisdictions, why not the criminal? This House has an obligation to debate and consider whether or not this amendment makes sense. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fight against domestic violence does not begin or can end in civil law and criminal law, and that is why we must insist on a vision of education, prevention and follow-up. And that's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be prejudiced about the education of our children. Domestic violence often starts with dating, with small acts of control and repression that are normalizing, but that nothing has to be normal. Yes, we are liberal, but we believe that there are transversal values to a society that must be touched on in school education, which, whether they want or not, has and will always have an essential role in the social training of our young people. Prevention is a cultural work involving civil society, security forces, the National Health Service (NSS) and the school community. And yes, it also involves political parties, and Portuguese can count on the Liberal Initiative. Above all, we have to act. We must act on behalf of the thousands of people who have been victims of domestic violence over the years. We must act on behalf of the children affected throughout our lives by this situation. We must act on behalf of those who are suffering at this moment, but do not speak. Above all, we must act so that today's observers are not tomorrow's victims. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, March 8, the International Women's Day is celebrated. More than the words that each of the parties can speak here today, we need to act urgently because Women's Day is every day. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u35	To make an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live today what the UN ( United Nations ) calls a « global pandemic of violence against women ». I draw attention to this expression: it is not only, although it can also be, domestic violence, it is gender-based violence, violence that is not episoded, nor circumstantial, is the symptom of a disease. other symptoms are included in this same disease. There is a wage inequality of 19 %; worker assessment systems that push attendance, knowing that who is missing from work to take children, parents or grandparents to the doctor are women and that women will be harmed in their career. Another symptom of this disease is segregation at work, with the devaluation of professions traditionally assumed by women, including in the public service. Another symptom of this disease is unpaid domestic work, without which the world would stop. A symptom of this disease is disrespect for the most fundamental rights of women, such as the right to health and the right to abortion. And we look around this plenary, and I invite the young women and the young men who are here too, to realize other symptoms of this disease: a leader of a youth party, of the Arrival, who says that women do not have an aptitude for politics;... [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] ...the largest parliamentary group, which believes that the unconsensual registration and dissemination of sexual images is a problem of devasive private life and not of gender violence; a majority of this Assembly of the Republic, which considers that rape of women is too private to be public. The morality imposed on women is, and will be, the source of inequality. Protection of privacy, protection of the private sphere, right to silence, these have historically been the complicit arguments of impunity for crimes against women. And the more attacks on women's dignity and, above all, the more attacks on their sexual self-determination are these crimes, the more they claim that society should set aside and respect the autonomy of the victim. She said and well, Mrs. Minister, recently, and she is right, that it was the transformation of domestic violence into public crime that made it audible and made it visible, but she refused that same transformation in relation to the crime of rape. The mistake, we know, that we are feminists, is that the supposed autonomy of the woman is consumed in gender prejudices: that of the girl who set herself up, that of the treacherous woman, that of the woman who burned the dinner, that of which she lost the shame. And they always count on our shame. Shame is a place in society, it is a lower place in society, which is reserved for women. And it is this morality, reserved only for women, which permeates the judicial system, which considers that not having sexual intercourse or burning dinner are mitigating for an assault. It is this morality that causes a judge or judge to say that being beaten with a mocha with nails is just punishment for a betrayal, or that condemning an aggressor to lead the victim to walk, to dinner outside, or perhaps to the theater and magazine is a way to deal with gender-based violence. How many women were murdered last year? Was it 20, 22, 24, 28? When are we gonna stop counting? The most important thing is to know that these women are dead because they are women, because violence is the most brutal symptom of machismo and gender inequality. He's not the only one, but he's the one who kills. Moreover, poorer women, lesbian women, bisexual women, trans women, racialized people, disabled people are the target of multiple violence. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] The question we have to ask ourselves is whether we are doing everything we can to guarantee the right of all women to life and freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u38	I will finish, Madam President. Society cannot continue to produce victims and aggressors. The responsibility of the State is not only to answer criminally and socially for the crimes that happen. As much as it costs some, sexual education and education for gender equality are essential in this fight against violence. As seen by the movements...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u39	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u40	I'm done now, Madam President. As seen by the movements that defeated Trump and Bolsonaro, feminism is the struggle of our lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u41	The Bureau noted a request for clarification, but the honourable Member did not have time to answer. I would like to ask Mr Ventura if he would, however, make such a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u42	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u43	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. He wants to intervene only by the reference that Mrs. Joana Mortágua made to this bench. I wanted the same galleries to which you asked to pay attention in the words of the Arrival, the PSD and the Socialist Party to know who it is that, in this House, systematically, has been against the increase in penalties against women's aggressors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u45	The Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u46	... against rapists and pedophiles. It has a name, it's called the Left Block and they're sitting there on that bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam Member, your votes are not wrong. You can come from painted lips, draw the attention of the galleries and say that "this comes and that comes". [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] You can come as you wish, try to evoke the memories that are expensive to you, but the data don't fool. The data show that the Left Block was against the increase in penalties for rapists; it was against the persecution that we wanted to do to men who arrived in this country and did nothing but pursue women and young women; it was against the chemical castration of pedophiles and rapists. And now you're here to say you're defending women. Madam Member, if there are benches that have allowed impunity in this country are those of the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the CFP, in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is what's happened! This is the Left Block. I repeat, this is the Left Block : talk here, talk there, very nice, flowers, ties, jackets, whatever it takes! But when it comes to saying what women really need — that they have a judicial system that effectively protects them and protects them, that allows men who violate a woman never violate any more in life — they do not say! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We're saying that they can... plus one, plus two, plus three and plus four! And we have cases in Portugal of people who raped five, six and seven times only for one thing: because we allow this to happen, because, for me, they would never get out of prison again in life. That's how it should be in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, Mrs. Member, it's your gender identity nonsense...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u47	Gender identity shots? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u48	Yes, gender identity nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u50	It is your nonsense about gender identity that have most contributed to reducing women, reducing children and allowing all the aggressors in Portugal to be worth and not worth anything to our women. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u51	Mrs. Joana Mortagua asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u52	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u53	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u54	Madam President, I just wanted to ask that the news be distributed which shows that it is true that the youth leader arrives...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u55	I'm the leader! You want to talk, you're talking here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u56	... said that women have less regard for politics; and also, now, a red lipstick, for Mr. André Ventura's case, need to draw attention to the nonsense you're saying here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u57	Mr. André Ventura asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u58	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u59	About the conduct of the work, too, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u60	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u61	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u62	Madam President, I would like to ask you to distribute it because the Left Block will be without memory — the result of voting on proposals for increased penalties for rapists, chemical castration and others...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u63	Ah, chemical castration!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u64	...in which the sense of vote of the Block in this Chamber is public and is known to all. The red lipstick, Mrs. Member, save it for you, which you will need. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u65	You want one? Oh, my God! I've got several!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin this speech by saying that, contrary to what the PSD says, I find it very unfortunate that only today is the Bureau composed only of women, because, of course, each one of you would have competence to be there every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u68	Just today? Just women? Oh, my God! [[Rice from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u69	Mr Diogo Leon was not in the Bureau at the beginning of the debate when the PSD made that reference. Some attention to the debate was very good in these situations. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As I was saying, it is because we are not feminists who, in Europe, have, for example, Giorgia Meloni ; Katalin Novák, as President of Hungary ; or Rocío Monasterio, in Madrid. It's because we're not feminists! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Today, in this House, I am given greater freedom of expression than any of the men here, because indeed, under the label of machismo and misogyny, we have limited the speech not only of my bench colleagues but also of many men. This is also seen by the number and the people who have been involved in this debate so far. Today is Woman's Day and it is necessary to say that we must recognize the evil service that each of you has done in the defense of the woman,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u70	... because it is insulting to refer to women as people with uterus or as people with menstrual condition. This is reducing and leaving out biological women who, for example, for health issues, have to remove the uterus or who, already in the menopause, do not menstruate. However, these are also women. What you have achieved was to empty the concept of women and should be ashamed because you disrespect women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Let me also say that today's debate is also deeply insulting because, on this day that we could exalt and enhance those who are their qualities, we reduce the woman to the victim's condition. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Thanks to God, women are not always a victim and the fight against domestic violence should not be done only today. We are talking here on PSD proposals. Where are the proposals? This debate is deeply empty of proposals: zero proposals are dragged.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u71	You can't drag!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u72	He's going to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u73	This isn't St. Benedict's Tertility! We are here to legislate and, therefore, if you want to fight domestic violence, you can vote. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Because it's Woman's Day and because we have to talk about women's problems, the arrival today gave a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic in which it asks for time...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u74	Grow up and show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u75	Madam Member, I ask you not to address me insultingly and not tell me to grow up and appear, because I don't know if this is misogynistic, I don't know if it's greed, I don't know what it is, but I don't allow it to be addressed to me. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u76	Madam Member, there is no dialogue between banks. How do you know... [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down, please. You know the Rules of Procedure as well as I do, and if the honourable Member feels insulted there is a regiment figure to defend his honour, but there is no dialogue between the benches. Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Because today is indeed the day when we recognize the actual problems of women and what they face, the arrival recognizes that maternity is still a form of combatting women and the career of success that they can have in the labour market. This is why what we ask today is that the time that women spend caring for their children can be recognized, that the time when women are absent from the labour market also translates into reform,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u79	... because, indeed, the reforms of women are lower. while men present, on average, 36 years of discounts, women present 30 years, and this is why they have greater predisposition to poverty than men. We want to fight this. It is not possible to conceive of a country where men have 40% of the highest pensions than women. And we, unlike the other sides, have brought concrete proposals. On domestic violence and on any other kind of violence, whether child marriage, whether sexual abuse or rape, the Arrival knows, every day, what its position is: it is in the defense of the victims. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u80	The arrival does not get lost and does not look with mercy at the aggressors, and that is our difference. To this position of our bench I call consistency, to your positions I call hypocrisy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: on this International Women's Day, it is time to celebrate the determination and courage of all the women who have struggled over the years to redefine history, but also to remind us of the way ahead. in a world in which we currently look at Ukraine, Iran, Afghanistan, the United States of America and observe the retreats, which are grueling, in women's rights we have in fact to do more and not only come with empty words, which summons us to this battle. When we also looked at Portugal and found that in 2022 alone more than 28 women died in the hands of violence and that many of these women were already signaled by aggression, before their murder, we failed to protect these women and failed to protect children. Most aggressors are men and the overwhelming majority of victims are women. It's no coincidence, it's patriarchal, it's structural misogyny, it's toxic machismo. And when we have sentences that speak in human weakness and lead the victim to dinner, we are not surprised that this is still a scourge in our society. At the request of the NAP, several associations were heard to make contributions in this area, and we recently presented an initiative for strengthening the media of the Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team in Domestic Violence. But the road can't stay here. We need to go further, criminalizing the abandonment of elderly people subject to domestic violence, successive indignity, among so many other matters that it is necessary to review. Here arrived, we cannot continue to marvel at the conservatism which often marks these benches or the negationism of those who, in a way even patriarchal way, bring the toxic machism to this House, denying the rights of all women, those who have uterus and those who do not have — because, in these multiple forms of discrimination, must also be pointed out today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u84	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. Today is the day to honor the women to whom this country is not yet fair, to whom they ask for silence, to speak low, to complain little, but we will not shut up. In days like today, we have often heard that we are all summoned to this battle,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u85	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u86	...but we women, who have been more summoned and worked more, still have to prove that we deserve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u88	Madam President, Mrs Minister, Secretary of State: Allow me to begin by welcoming all the working women of this House and, in particular, the cleaning workers whose bodies represent a great deal of what is the periphery, what is so often the invisibility, and who are the first to arrive at this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] «There are many things that have not told you in school»—the phrase is a song, a Brazilian black activist singer, Bia Ferreira. Many of us are still of the time when the school left us alone, in the worst sense of the word. We are of the time we frequented the classical disciplines and, without correction from the state, we frequented the school of life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u89	The school of life, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u90	... what he told us, without contradiction, of the « faggots », of the « ordinary men », of the « man who does not cry », of the « near Guinea », of the « care for the gypsy », of the « do not be a Jew ». They forced us to attend, without objection of conscience, all the contents of the disciplines of Portuguese, History and Mathematics, and forced us to attend all the contents of the usual life of a country, like all, with serious problems of inequality, problems that were properly normalized in our heads because the educational system did not make its deconstruction one of the facets of the fundamental right to education. Without Education for Citizenship and without Sexual Education, we attended, many of us, and so many before us, the structural school of inequality, the lack of empathy, inspiring us in the fatal ingredients for a very bad citizenship. Fortunately, we now do not leave children and young people thrown into an unequal school of life, rather betting, although fragile, on topics as simple as the development of personal and social competences, the promotion of critical thinking or development in non-formal areas such as individual civic attitude. To object to this is, of course, to object to citizenship. To leave children at peace is to leave the roots of violence in love, domestic violence, racism and homophobia and patriarchal treatment that, at all levels and every day, women suffer and that we now point out.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u91	Life school is what's needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u92	In the words of Minister João Costa, "we had no hesitation in saying that it is the role of education school for citizenship, a global citizenship, education for human rights, education for various values[... ] Why is this discipline not optional? Because citizenship is not optional, citizenship is a duty of all of us. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a historical moment, when we are confronted with the conclusions of the report on sexual abuse of children within the Catholic Church, it may be to appeal to those who accuse education for citizenship of interference in the family to reflect, because it is precisely the subjects of sexuality and gender equality that are held by ideological.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u93	Yes, yes, and very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u94	The arguments vary, but they are all abusive. Here and there it falls in the achievement of imagining a neutral constitution. It is not. It is in this common pact that we find the political community's option for non-discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation or race. It is also in the Basic Law that the duty of the State to promote equality and fundamental rights is included. The school, therefore, is not neutral. Public school is not a space outside the Constitution. On the contrary, it is up to the State to adopt equality and integration policies, since childhood, in accordance with constitutional principles and values. We have the duty to fight the present chaga of inequality and misogyny and, therefore, we have to go on the basis of the problem, claiming without hesitation that the school is also a place of formation of a worthy citizenship and that the history of a country that until recently mirrored the criminal and civil law the minority of women does not deconstruct without training. Yeah, there's a lot they didn't teach us at school. Let us not give up education for citizenship and sexual education, before, to strengthen them, for a less abusive future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u95	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this day when the International Day of Women is signed — born in 1910, to strengthen the organized struggle of workers against exploitation and oppression — on this 8 March, which has become a symbol for successive generations of women, of the struggle for the consecration of rights, for equality and emancipation, we want to greet all women who live, work and study in our country: women, workers, reformed or not, immigrants, mothers, young women. March 8 is a date of great significance and currentity and therefore so often distorted or distorted. Today, the sum of many years of battles, in Portugal and around the world, for full equality, based on a society of progress and social justice. This fight can never stop, because too much evidence is needed. It is enough to say that working women earn 16 % lower wages than men, a difference which in 2021 meant 153 €. In the upper tables, the difference is 25 %. It is the women of this country most of those who receive the national minimum wage, a minimum wage that does not give to live, as workers in the area of health care and cleaning know well, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u98	Therefore, when we talk today about combating domestic violence, we cannot fail to point out that domestic violence, which is the most repugnant face of inequality, has a material substrate that comes from behind, but still sustains it, and that spreads to all dimensions of women's lives. To combat any form of violence affecting women, it is not possible to dispense the resolution of the concrete problems they are facing: the sharp loss of purchasing power; their low wages and pensions; the precarious work that blackmail and discrimination based on maternity stimulates; the impossibility of paying the household income and loan; etc. The lack of response to these problems generates a spiral of degradation of the living conditions of most women, which accentuates the inequalities and discrimination they face. The increase in poverty and deprivation is given, which, in itself, is a factor that prolongs the subjection of many to domestic violence, boosting the risks to their physical and mental integrity and the development and health of their children. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, domestic violence is an intolerable reality with which our country confronts itself and is a particularly complex, multifactorial crime, often portrayed in a simplistic manner. In domestic violence, they compete with inequality and imbalance in power between men and women, historically accumulated, with a very broad set of other factors and problems. Prevention must be the basis, preventing someone from becoming a victim and someone from becoming an aggressor; preventing the cycle of violence from perpetuating and managing models that will be reproduced by today's children and young people, adults of tomorrow. We need an effective response to mental health problems, to worrying levels of consumption and additions, and that health has the means to intervene, from the point of view of primary care. We need to have a national network of support for victims of domestic violence that guarantees different responses across the country. We need to find early forms of support and intervention, truly articulated and not dependent on a criminal process. We need to work the learning of affections, sexuality in school and throughout life, eliminating harmful representations and combating the normalization of violence in dating. The school must have the means, especially professionals, to do so. One of the most involved crimes must correspond to more training and specialization in this front of the security forces and all those who are called to intervene with the victims. We need more protection for the victims and we need means to protect them. It's not enough to put on electronic bracelets. There's got to be someone doing surveillance. We need penalties to serve to achieve their objectives, to prevent recurrence. To do this, the prison and reintegration system must have the ability and professionals to implement the programs. We need to guarantee all the victims psychological and economic conditions to interrupt such a situation and to conduct a judicial process to the end, in accordance with your will. We need the victims to know their rights, the resources they can access, and that they come to these victims. in this sense, the PCP delivered two projects today, aiming to achieve exactly the objective of, on the one hand, to ensure greater legal support to all victims in the first contact with the authorities. When the situation is reported and when an occurrence is verified, it is known that the victims do not have the due and timely follow-up by a defender, which is indispensable to assert rights and to take into account the tools available to them in the context of the judicial proceedings they face. Another project was delivered to strengthen the guarantees of the victim at work, to ensure that the right to transfer the workplace and the justification for shortcomings are truly respected. These proposals meet two of the major constraints that the victims encounter and we hope they deserve to be dedicated to this Parliament. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, yes, it is not enough to include rights in the law. What is approved here, as has already been approved, must have a real chance to move from the paper to the ground. It is necessary to have the will and capacity to implement, and this translates into action and investment, which is not really being made. Mrs. Members, it is not compatible to disinvest and demotivate all the services that have to intervene in cases of domestic violence and to say that a great fight is being made, especially when we continue to have an increasingly unequal society, in which the wealth of a minority is achieved with the sacrifice of thousands of lives. We need every person, every woman, every worker, to be autonomous at all levels, from the financial point of view. We need everyone to be able to pay an income, not to be exploited all day at work and then, again, at home. We need equality in law and in life so that dependencies are broken and relationships are based only on affection and common projects. Long live International Women's Day! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u99	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and to make it available has the floor of Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u100	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, this is a matter that affects people who are in a unprotected situation, people who need the protection of the state, and it is therefore essential that we talk about evidence. This is because, in the absence of these, the debate easily leads to speculation, which is a fertile ground for political exploitation and extremism, as we have seen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u101	So let's talk about evidence. Unfortunately, the year 2022 recorded more than 30 000 occurrences of the security forces. These numbers, in addition to haunting us as a society, mean that this phenomenon is still far from diminishing, and therefore repeated and continuous efforts are required in its fight against and prevention. I believe that there is a broad consensus on this subject, as the honourable Member has said here. In fact, we see this in the speeches and in all the speeches, but, as the honourable Member has said and I will reiterate, for whom it is a victim of domestic violence, that is not enough at all. Moreover, most of the issues related to domestic violence, more than by major legislative amendments, are due to the good implementation of the existing law, and the Economic and Social Council confirms exactly that. They also, as we have already mentioned, go through a strengthened commitment to the continuous and specialized training of strategic actors in domestic violence. So let us speak again of evidence, Mrs. Member: the diagnosis of this phenomenon has already been duly done, there are reports and dozens of recommendations from the Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team in domestic violence in this sense, but the reinforcement in training is not yet verified. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep talking about evidence. The Government itself has already assumed the need for strengthening and diversifying training models when it has appointed the Multidisciplinary Technical Commission for the Improvement of Prevention and Combating Domestic Violence, which in its final report has identified precisely weaknesses in the existing training offer. The problem is only this: on the part of the government, it is still being conveyed that everything is being done, but the harsh reality we face every day tells us, on the contrary, that there is still much to correct, improve and invest. Mrs Deputies, in view of this evidence, do you not understand that it is high time, indeed, to strengthen and diversify the models of training in the area of violence against women? Moreover, as the PSD defends in a draft resolution submitted yesterday. Will you follow the PSD in this area? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u102	In reply, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u103	Mr President, I believe that, in the matter of evidence, it is absolutely clear that, as a result of decades of disinvestment in public services, even from the time it was said that there were more public servants, the services are absolutely decapitalized, unable to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u104	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u105	This is seen at various levels. We have teams to prevent violence in adults — great, they are very important! — but it works with hours of professionals who are already overwhelmed by the normal work of health centres, for example. We have a discipline of Sexual Education in law, a victory and a struggle in which the PCP has been very committed. In practice, it does not arrive because we do not have teachers even for Portuguese or English, the more to be giving sex education. That, the students also point. The police are horrified by the occurrences they have to respond to. It was very important that we could pass from the few that are still training and that could raise the number of participation in these formations, but for that we also need to have anyone who wants to be police in a world where being police is very poorly paid. Social reintegration technicians, who are supposed to follow up on electronic bracelets and social reintegration work, are not enough to accompany and for electronic surveillance, all the more so to do the real work of re-education and reintegration. Technicians are horrified with reports, they are not enough and no action is taken on this. We could cross the entire public sector, all public services that are called upon to intervene, and we would always reach the same conclusion: it is not compatible to say that we fight domestic violence and at the same time break down the services that are called to intervene. That is simply not a reality and is not honest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u106	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on domestic violence is a thematic debate and therefore does not allow initiatives to be dragged.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u108	They chose another form of debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u109	But the truth is that the PSD does not debate without solutions and answers to the problems being discussed, and violence is no exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u111	That is why we are presenting a package — as we now say — of eight legislative initiatives, all related to the problem of domestic violence. Among them, to specify, we have from now on a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the extension of rehabilitation programmes for aggressors in domestic violence, in which I would, in fact, like to stop for a few moments. We constantly speak in our speech that we have to end the cycles of violence, that we have to end the recurrences in violence, but, as long as we do not look at the aggressor as one of those fundamental target objects of intervention to end the cycles of violence, we will never succeed, because we will not have primary, effective prevention, in this cycle of violence that goes on forever from generation to generation, and we continue to experience it. Therefore, it is important, and increasingly important, that we have a vision and a humanist approach to the aggressors, so that we have less and less victims, because without aggressors there are no victims, and we can never forget this aspect. On the other hand, we recommend that the Government implement measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic and gender violence — one of the concerns we all need to have and for which we need to be increasingly united. This fight is a priority when a woman dies every 10 minutes in the world. See how many women have died since we started this debate! Or we begin to face this matter with the seriousness it deserves, being an unequal struggle, a struggle that we are losing every day, or in fact, every day 8, or every day 9, or every day 7 we will discuss this subject but we will not solve the actual problems. Specific measures are needed. therefore the PSD has presented a draft resolution that has to do with precisely strengthening training for training—it is essential that this happens—and for the problem of violence in dating. Allow me this aside: when I was young, I thought that was something older and now I find out that it is more and more something younger. It's this cycle we have to break. But in addition to presenting draft resolutions, we also presented draft laws. This approach is fundamental to the elderly, to the most unprotected and we hope that they will be with us and that this debate is not only praised for being well-intentioned, but that it is the beginning of more work to go beyond what has been done, because it has been notoriously little. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u112	Mr Pedro Pessanha, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u113	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence, genuine plague in society, translates into a deeply complex crime that affects, in addition to the direct victims, all the others who witness these situations. The existence of situations of violence in human relations today is one of the motivations that leads many people to seek help, not only in health institutions, but also in police and judicial institutions. This crime of domestic violence may cover the most diverse forms of practice, such as bodily offenses, humiliations, provocations, threats, cruel and degrading treatment, affecting the person and his dignity in family and community relations, as well as family and social peace. It is necessary to have the courage to reflect on this social scourge and to think about measures that help to prevent domestic violence, so we must equalize the hypothesis that, in this constitutional framework, we should consider an integrated legal approach to the decision of criminal, civil and protective processes concerning domestic violence, in accordance with the recommendations of the Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence of the Council of Europe. Domestic violence, in its multiplicity of forms, is also one of the most serious forms of violence against women and men, realizing a serious violation of fundamental rights and even the right to life. Children subjected to these situations eventually assimilate violence as a way of being and may, already adults, reproduce a model that they have assimilated, which can harm and generate a process of self-devaluement, which impairs school performance and work. It is recalled that, even in 2022, our party handed over two bills in this Parliament that propose the extension of preventive detention for possible domestic violence crimes, providing for the immediate appointment of a patron for the victims of these crimes. Finally, because the family is the most important cell in society, the arrival aims to support any victim, man or woman, child or adult. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u114	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is March 8th, women's rights day, and although the PSD has scheduled for this debate the issue of domestic violence. Those who deny the need for subsistence one day when we think more deeply about women's rights today are confronted with the circumstance of structural inequality being undeniable, when we conclude that in the last RASI, the crime of domestic violence is the most shared crime — 75% of the victims are women, 81% of those reported are men. This is so despite the legislative changes that have been ensuring greater protection for victims of domestic violence. I wanted to remind you that, at the end of the past legislature, we unanimously approved Law No 57 / 2021. Many relevant steps have been taken, in particular, it has been clarified that children living in the context of domestic violence are victims of domestic violence, it has been clarified that economic deprivation can be a form of domestic violence, increased duties of communication between family justice and criminal justice, affixed to intervention within the first 72 hours and to the removal of the aggressor from the household. Despite this, I repeat, domestic violence was the most involved crime in RASI of 2021 and this is because in 2021, in 2023, there are many men who continue to think that the role of women is to obey and that they were born to command. And that's because that's what they've taught them over thousands of years. More than 2,000 years ago, St. Paul told the Corinthians that the woman's brain was the man...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u116	Don't decontextualize! That is disrespectful, that is religious discrimination!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u117	... and, in the 19th century, Gustave Le Bon, the father of Multidon Psychology, said that finding a woman with a brain was as difficult as finding a gorilla with two heads.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u118	Is that written? Oh, my God! That's insulting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u119	Mrs. Rita Matias, now I'm talking about the father of Multidon Psychology, I'm no longer speaking in the New Testament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u120	Still it's insulting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u121	Anyway, I also wanted to point out that, more recently, I heard a judge, president of a higher court, saying that he felt that women could not be judged because monthly moods prevented them from reflecting without emotion and rationality. We today welcome the fact that Carolina Beatriz Angelo voted for the first time in 1911, but I always remember a lady we found in the last election campaign, in the market, who, before accepting an election pamphlet, looked at her husband and only when her husband bored, saying that she could, she extended her hand to receive him. What I would like to stress today is that "feminist" is a name and an adjective that is used by both genders, because there are feminist men and women: men in Iran who are willing to fight for women's rights, at the risk of dying, are feminist men, they are not only feminists who Mrs. Joana Mortagua thinks they are feminists. I would like to conclude by saying that last summer we had knowledge of a United Nations study that said we had 300 years to achieve equality. It's too long, we need to walk faster. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u122	Taking a sentence from the context is very nice it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u123	We will move on to the closing stage of the debate. To that end, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor. [[Pause.]] Sir, I'm sorry, but there was a distraction. The honourable Member has no right to intervene at the closing stage, only the parliamentary groups have. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u124	No problem, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u125	To intervene in the closure of the debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Maria Teresa Horta, in April 1971, published in Dom Quixote, My Lady of Mem, a book that was seized by PIDE ( International Police and State Defense ). Maria Teresa Horta said that her life changed completely when she published it, that the PIDE captured it and called Snu Abeccassis to the National Information Secretariat and that Moreira Baptista banned her from publishing any work of Maria Teresa Horta. From there, the PIDE became the worst enemy of Maria Teresa Horta, who became target of fierce persecution. After a week of PIDE aggression, Maria Teresa Horta went to lunch with Isabel and Fatima. When he saw her, Fatima was outraged with her state, with what they had done to her. In front of the burbure caused by the book, the scandal generated by Maria Teresa Horta being persecuted, for having been beaten, Fatima launched the challenge: "If a woman alone causes all this confusion, this burbure, this scandal, what would happen if we were three? » The New Portuguese Letters were thus born, unabsolutely pornographic and attacks on public morality, as they were condemned and banned at the time. They said these New Portuguese Letters: « I understand that it is not enough to think about production relations, being socially the woman producing children and selling her labor force to the boss man. To this reading it is necessary to add the systems of cultural crystallization that sustain, strengthen and expand the domination of women. It is necessary to destroy these cultural crystallizations in which women are legal imbecile, irresponsible social, castrated man, flesh, sinner, serpent Eve, soulless body, virgin-mother, witch, self-denied mother, human vampire, home fairy, stupid human being and very ashamed by sex, goat, angel, etc. etc. And I say all this in the present [... ]" said Maria Teresa Horta— « because against these images there has never been a root combat, only if they have been called into question their logical and practical consequences of some of them, insofar as they no longer agreed or no longer served the man». There is a system of privilege in this society. This system of privilege is called Machism, it is called patriarchy and this system of privilege produces victims. There is no female policy, but there are anti-feminist policies to combat. The wage policies of public services, those that prevent the national care service, those that prevent education, political participation, those that push women to low wages and traditional roles, those that say that the place of women is intimacy and therefore private and therefore unprotected. "Being a lost body is your transparency," said Natalia Correia. Their transparency is their invisibility in society. There is no doubt that it is women who pay the inflationed price of basic consumer goods and social solutions of the State. There is no doubt that they are the daily cost of climate change. There is no doubt that it is upon them that the most heinous violence of the war falls. And I ask: Is war a continuation of patriarchate by other means? Or is the patriarchate a permanent war? In assessing the number of women murdered by male violence, I would say that the patriarchy is a permanent war. But we don't shut up. We report it. We fight. To be women makes us, yes, victims, but does not make us fragile. It says António Guterres that if we continued at this rate, it would take 300 years to achieve gender equality. But the story isn't like that. They tried to erase our history, the history of our struggle, in the same way that they tried to erase the words of Maria Teresa Horta. « We are the witches of the word», Maria Teresa Horta would say. All women have been conquered. It is not because they are less victims that Iran's women have set fire to the way we now have to go, because they are stronger and because they are more courageous. Don't ask them to wait another 300 years. Don't ask us to wait another 300 years. It is this path burned by the women of Iran that we want to go, even to equality, by all those who set it on fire before us and also by Maria Teresa Horta. Long live International Women's Day. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u127	To speak at the end of the debate, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a debate in which the issues of domestic violence were inevitably addressed, structural inequalities were pointed out, particularly inequalities at work. On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to extend a very special greeting to Dancake women, who are on strike today. [[PCP applause.]] They are women who have been receiving the national minimum wage for 20 or 30 years and now see wage discrimination in the evaluation process. These women are this flow of struggles, which accumulate for years and years, and which mark our history for women's rights and for truly visible advancements. in this sense, we could not fail to make this greeting. But let's also talk about women in the care sector. We speak of the women of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa and of so many IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), also receiving the minimum wage, women who care for others but who then are not cared for through wage valuation. We're talking about health workers. Most of them. Women are the majority in health. We know well how the health workers are devalued and demotivated, exhausted. We are talking about cleaning women, not just those of the Assembly of the Republic, but those of hospitals, which are subcontracted, instead of being hired by the entity that really benefits from their work — the Assembly of the Republic, the public hospitals, the distribution of finance. Why don't these women have a contract with the company they're actually serving?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u130	Why does this happen? In order to be able to have a profit margin that some are appropriate and that does not go to the wages of these women. Combating inequality is taking concrete measures and there can be no fight against domestic violence without removing the motivations for the greater vulnerability of women, for their greatest dependence, whether economic, psychological or other. Therefore, we cannot disassociate the fight against inequalities, in time we live, which is to deepen the inequalities, the fight against all forms of violence against women, which is not only domestic violence, is also exploitation in prostitution and rape. There are a number of types of violence that especially affect women and that need to be combated. But they must be fought with means, not only changing the specific living conditions of these women and their ability to find a new life project, but also with services capable of doing. We have already had the opportunity to say that it is not compatible to devalue all public services and, at the same time, to say that it is fighting violence against women. Then, let's talk about women's participation, women's voice in different organs. If women do not have time, if women do not have availability, because working hours are crazy and because here this House refuses to reduce working hours to 35 hours,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u131	... when it takes extraordinary hours and hours to get a wage to live, where is the time left to participate? Not the privileged women, not the women who have a better condition at the start, the women who need to speak more and give their opinion are the women who live the difficulties in their daily lives. [[PCP applause.]] I end with a sentence that makes a lot of sense. Zeca Afonso said in his song: « Woman in democracy is not room biombo ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u132	So we value women. We must guarantee conditions for women to be able to participate, to have their own voice and to defend their interests in a more equal and fairer country. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u133	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention in this closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u134	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is International Women's Day and, therefore, on my behalf and on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, I could not fail to begin by expressing all our recognition and praise to all women who, in Portugal and throughout the world, today and in the past, have contributed with their talents, their courage, their work and their love to transform the world into a better place and, above all, a more free place. All of you, thank you very much. However, I confess that it is difficult for me to associate the discussion of domestic violence with an efemeride or an international day, even knowing that this scourge affects, above all, women, more than 80% of the reported cases. This is because the fight against domestic violence and the fight for its eradication must be a daily effort and, indeed, this Parliament has not spared any effort to make its contribution, and the Liberal Initiative is proud to have always been part of this effort, which needs to continue, because it is not yet enough. The numbers continue to be overwhelming and should be ashamed of us as society. There were more than 30 000 participations, only last year. It is almost 100 participations per day, almost 4 participations per hour and it is the distressing notion that this can be only part of a monstrous problem whose real dimension we still ignore. What we do not ignore nor can we ignore or devalue are the 24 adult victims and the 4 child victims who died at the hands of domestic aggressors last year. Here is also our tribute, the day after the National Day of Struggle by the Victims of Domestic Violence. [[Applause from the IL.]] But the reason why I asked to close this debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative was to reiterate here, as a man and as a liberal, the total repudiation for all acts of domestic violence, for which there can never be justification, and the shame I feel, as a man, for so many heinous acts committed by other men. I mean, with all the letters, that the fight against domestic violence is, in its essence, a fight against cowardice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u136	...for someone who knows or feels himself stronger to want to exercise dominion or power over who knows or thinks he is weaker is a cowardice and a confession of impotence and weakness, not of strength. It's a cowardice. The Liberal Initiative will always be on the front line of combating domestic violence, because it does not accept a society that tolerates cowardice. Happy International Women's Day. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u137	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for a closing speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State, Dear colleagues : Today we note that we must remember by everyone the day of protection, rights, life and dignity that a modern and free society must, without any doubt, attribute without any hesitation and with all regard to women and men. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u139	What we have today in Portugal is an unacceptable wage gap between men and women. It must be an ongoing struggle in this Parliament that women have the same rights as men and opportunities as men, so that they can reach the top of the social scale, in all their sectors and in all their dimensions. What the Socialist Government has achieved in Portugal years after years is that Portuguese women continue to be the most harmed across Europe. This is from a party called a women's rights defender. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this level of protection is also recognizing that women are the main victims of sexual crimes and domestic violence. As acknowledged by the Socialist Party itself today, these are crimes whose main targets, by cowardice and not only, are women. It is this defense without hindrance that we must commit ourselves to. But we cannot commit ourselves to the second and sixth and look at the third, fourth and fifth. All — all, without exception! — the proposals brought to this plenary to defend women, to ensure that aggressors could never attack them again and to ensure that rapists who could never do so again — it is necessary that the country knows — were plunged, without any tolerance, by the majority of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is this left-wing hypocrisy that reigns in Portugal and that insists on using women as trophies, but forget and look aside to many of our social problems. No, the left doesn't want to solve any problems that are domestic violence or sexual assault against women. He just wants to talk about education, gender ideology, things that are good enough to fill their mouths but that don't solve a single problem that the country needed to solve. And it was so simple! If anyone who raped a woman or raped two women never saw the light we're seeing here again, it was so simple to solve this problem. It was so simple! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And yes, today, Madam President, today there are other threats to our women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u140	« To ours», what? Oh, my God! I'm not yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u141	There are other threats to our women. When the State allows some communities in Portugal to allow 14-year-olds to marry, they force 14-15-year-olds to leave school and make them enslaved in their work, or when they allow an immigration wave from some countries where women are objects and are forced to cover themselves, the blame is also for this country and it is also for those who allow them in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Madam President, we will never be afraid to say: these communities, minorities in our country, as well as this Islamic wave that is sweeping Europe today brutally threatens women's rights, not only in Portugal, but throughout Europe. And that's not a single party that has the courage and the ability to say. We prefer to look on the side and find it normal for women to be forced to walk covered from morning to day. We think it's normal for them to be enslaved and come from countries where they're whipped when they treat badly, bring their husbands or have boyfriends. That is the reality, my gentlemen, that the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the European Socialists have produced, not to mention the extreme left. on our part, they won't even come in and pass. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. there were 54 cases per day in 2022, plus 73% of women sought shelters in 2022, and there were 82 more violations in 2022. This happened while Parliament distributed nails, red lipstick and pink jackets. This was what women wanted to see resolved: that Parliament would waste a minute of its time leaving the choreographies behind, the lipsticks and the jackets and actually solve the problem they liked to see resolved, which was an iron hand on who attacked our women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But no, Parliament will always prefer to look the other way. It is quieter and more comfortable. It was the poet Fernando Matos who said: «He who kills a woman takes life from all mankind». That is what we should remember and not any lipstick on the day we are, to act and not to make folklore. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u142	For an intervention in this closure, Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u143	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I note a mixture of joy and sadness — joy because we have been here at the voice of many women without voice; and sadness because we celebrate your day with a theme that has long been not supposed to flage Portuguese women. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u144	For the PSD, it is urgent to make every effort to reverse the rise of domestic violence numbers because its size is intolerable and we only rest when the number of victims is one — zero! The package of projects that we present confronts the Government for the implementation and implementation of urgent, necessary and appropriate measures. I resolved today, International Women's Day, in memory of all the dead victims and in honor of all the living victims, to tell the story of a woman like so many others, victims of men who love or love, married, divorced or in love. I called it "The Bomb". « There are days when I feel a bomb. A bomb that holds up successive and violent beatings without breaking the skin. A bomb that, at the moment of the crash, makes a deafening noise, but the next minute, it gets changed waiting for the next one. I can't keep living like this. My skin is covered in black knots and my heart is filled with blood. I can't live in this house of death, pain and misfortune. I always have to blame the house: the violent house - me, crush me, yell at me, tie me. It's easier to charge walls, windows and doors than hands, feet and mouths. Despite everything, the massive stone house is more sensitive than my husband, less hard than his feet on my belly or your hands tightening my neck. It is easier to say “home ” than to say“ husband. ” My resistance is about a wire. I can't stand it. I'm sick of being a bomb. And it's so many and so many punches that I'm afraid the skin will break. But I have no choice, because in this house I will have to go to another, and I only have one of my parents, retrogrades and conservatives, who spend their lives telling stories of great women. My father always exalts such an Alice who, being married to an alcoholic and violent husband, can bear everything without hearing a complaint. “ What a great woman! he says. Rosa, my mother’s neighbor, asks me: “Ana, are you sick? Did something happen? You look terrible! She was used to lying, lying. He said I fell down the stairs and got into some unbearable back pain. Rosa recognized herself in me: she saw the shadows that wandered in my eyes, my splashed skin of yellow and black, her hands tremulous and her back folded with the weight of guilt. Rosa knew exactly what it was like: when her husband beat her, she always thought it was her fault. I could not have gone to coffee, I could not have dressed that skirt, I could not have greeted that childhood friend, I could not have used lipstick or perfume. After all, he could have resigned and quieted himself. He insisted: “And you think he does it because he likes you, don’t you? I hesitated: “I don’t know right. I thought it was because I liked myself, because I wanted him alone, but now I don't think so. Rosa’s eyes looked at me with tenderness and understanding. I confessed: “I’m afraid to laugh when I don’t have to talk as much as I can, dress as I’m not right or go to inappropriate places. “ Rosa cried out to me, like, “You shouldn’t, you can’t, you can’t laugh, you won’t go, you won’t dress, you won’t talk! ” Rosa’s words resounded on me, a doll already of bamboo skin and about to break up. And broken skin bomb has no arrangement, it's to shoot the garbage, the cemetery of things. Rosa continues: “Go, Ana, while it’s time, or you’re dead. Start your life in another place, change your skin, change everything, change your name, but go, don't look back. You're just gonna have peace away from here. I have wandered for several hours in search of courage, strength, and even faith. I bought a ticket to Madrid. At the station, the tears are released. Come in, I sit down, shake and untie the candy. And only when I feel the train roll the big speed, I breathe. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is the life of many women in Portugal, a country with good laws, but weak results; a country that cannot prevent more women from getting killed and so many children from getting orphaned. The evaluation of policies is therefore negative to the Government, recognizing that, if on the one hand, women have done much to counter these phenomena, on the other hand, society has not done everything within its reach. Society where machismo is destructive and still lacks men a long way. But what will be missing? Maybe the answer is in one of Zeca Afonso's songs, which says: « I've been a sea, I've been a ship/ I've been a ladder/ I've been a boy, I've been a man/ I just need to be a woman». [[Greetings from the PSD, with Members standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u145	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u146	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a topic of the greatest importance, a subject that calls us all as a community and which must deserve our fight. I welcome the PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group for its agenda, which, of course, we associate ourselves with. Domestic violence is a crime that perpetuates phenomena of inequality and power relations; a crime committed mostly on women; a crime that corroborates misogyny and machismo, which still remain in our society today and which have come, in political discourse, to gain special lightning in the far right of parliament; a crime that constitutes a violation of human rights. The data available well illustrate the tragedy and horror this crime represents for the victims and their families. We know today that these crimes occur mostly within the family, and most of the aggressors are men: companions or former companions of the victims. We also know that there are discriminations that extend beyond the home, also reaching the sphere of the professional life of the victim. We know that there is a high rate of recurrence and we well know that the trauma that affects the direct and indirect victims of this phenomenon requires continued psychological, judicial and social monitoring. We cannot and will not ignore what the data tell us, what the data we know illustrate. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group assumed as a cause in 1. the Legislative Session, the fight against domestic violence. We do not limit ourselves to the legislative sphere. We wanted to go further: we went to the ground to follow the concerns and needs identified by those who deal more closely with this phenomenon. We're not leaving this cause. This is a cause that we embrace and for which we will continue to fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also follow the determined action of the Government. in this sense, it is of great importance to safeguard the creation of the working group for the elaboration of a national strategy for the protection of victims of crime, an innovative idea in the national landscape, which allows to align policy guidelines at this headquarters. We also stress that today, on 8 March, International Women's Day, there will be a ceremony in the Ministry of Justice to renew protocols relating to victim support offices for the renewal of existing partnerships. Since 2019, with the XXI Constitutional Government, which we have been working to shape in national legislation everything that concerns the Istanbul Convention, so that the DIAP ( Departments of Investigation and Criminal Action ) can carry out closer follow-up with offices to assist victims of domestic violence. It is in this sense that, in a coordinated manner, the Government — with different government areas, where justice is highlighted, but also Parliamentary Affairs and the Ministry of Labour — and the majority of the Socialist Party continue to work towards better conditions for supporting the victim in the future, to protect the victims, but above all to combat this scourge of domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, I would like to stress the importance of the opinion delivered by the Economic and Social Council ( CES ) on domestic violence, which was voted in plenary on 3 March, an opinion requested by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to this civil society body. I thank the ESC, in the person of its President, Francisco Assisi, for the efforts made to compile and draw up the strategies that the various parliamentary groups, in particular the Socialist Party, will carry out in the near future to improve legislation, to better monitor the action of the Government and also to propose innovative measures to combat the phenomenon of domestic violence. Some of the data we have received are alarming: more than 100 victims in the last four years; 28 victims in 2022; 24 women and 4 children. These numbers call us, shock us and therefore, as Simone de Beauvoir wrote, « The present is not a power past, it is the moment of choice and action». This is the time to continue to act and change this present, which continues to be too much a disaster of an unhappy past. Long live Woman's Day! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u147	To close this debate on behalf of the Government, I call on the Secretary of State for Equality and Migration, Isabel Almeida Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by welcoming the conduct of this debate. It is always with great pleasure that I am in this Parliament to discuss with the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a topic as important as domestic violence. In fact, already this year I have been with you on a very interesting and, I believe, very productive reflection on this matter. But today, on 8 March, I wanted above all to greet the girls and women who, over the centuries, have not hesitated to put their lives at risk, or to give their own life, in defense of true equality between men and women, in defense of women's rights, in defence of equal dignity and equal rights for women. I would also like to warmly welcome the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the initiative to call on the ESC to carry out this study, and the ESC on the quality and depth of the work done, in which we have seen with concern all the issues in which we still need to improve, which come precisely to the meeting of those who are also the concerns of the government. I should also point out that the same report recognises the work that has been done and the many achievements that must not be forgotten at the moment. A lot has been said about numbers, and well. The numbers of domestic violence must revolt us all. However, I have greater difficulty in agreeing when it is said that the situation is in Portugal as it is no longer anywhere in Europe. Last week I had the opportunity to participate in a high-level meeting promoted by the Swedish Presidency, precisely to discuss domestic violence and budget with a gender perspective, and since your idea is very different and you think that Portugal is an area of horror outside Europe, they would be surprised at the seriousness of the situation throughout the European continent, but also within the Union, where we also need to strengthen the work we have been doing. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] in this picture, I wanted to remember the indicator published today, the glass-ceiling index, of the magazine The Economist, which places Portugal in 4. the place, only surpassed by Iceland, Sweden, Finland and Norway, with regard to gender equality in the labour market. The Economist places Spain in 11. the United Kingdom in 17. the and Germany in 22. o [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Mrs. Member, I'm telling you now that I'm talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u149	I didn't speak now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u150	If we meet the criteria that The Economist uses, we will understand why Portugal appears so well classified at the foot of Finland, Norway and Iceland : because the criteria are those of parental leave, the cost of day care, access to education and also of wage inequality. As regards this, I wanted to recall that in 2016 the day was marked on November 11 and last year it was already marked on November 13th. This means that, even in an extremely difficult context as it has been in recent years — with the succession of, first, the sovereign debt crisis, then the impact of the pandemic — Portugal has improved its position on wage inequality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are, of course, not satisfied. I would also like to point out that the PSD mentioned that the evaluation of policies is negative, and I respect this position, only I do not understand how, being the negative evaluation, they deliver six draft resolutions that aim to be implemented by the government to what is already in the plans. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seems to me that there is some incongruity, because if policies were not good, they wouldn't be here. [[PSD protests.]] But it's good, it means that we agree on the strategy and how the strategy declines in the various action plans. Finally, let me say that we are also reviewing the priorities mentioned here: improving and strengthening support for victims and the quality of decisions taken in all dimensions of the phenomenon of domestic violence, from the management of networks to the judicial process; anticipating the moment when the victim recognizes that he is a victim, so that we can avoid escalating violence; and reinforcing work with aggressors. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] In fact, your proposal is going to meet what I said a month ago and also what I said in the statutory hearings as to the need to strengthen the work. Indeed, Mrs Deputy, I have already said it here several times, what is necessary is to reduce the number of aggressions. If 90% of the aggressors are men, men need to change their behavior. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, centuries of patriarchal consolidation of the woman's vision as a minor, to whom man could even correct and beat, well, what do I have to say? If the PSD leader needed a few years to recognize the importance of positive measures for women, as, in fact, he himself announced yesterday,... [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u152	What a lack of education!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u153	Lack of tea!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u154	...it is further evidence that we still have a long work to do so that this can actually change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u155	We therefore conclude this important debate. We bid you farewell to the Minister and to the Secretary of State, wishing you a good remnant of International Women's Day. We move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 128 / XIV / 2. a ( Ramons Vaz de Menezes et al.) — Achigan ( Micropterus Salmonides ) a species to protect, together with, in general, the Bill No. 331 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the legal regime for the prevention and control of exotic species applicable to recreational and sports fishing in inland waters and with draft resolution No 427 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By maintaining the Acquigan on the National List of Invasive Species listed in Annex II to Decree-Law No 92 / 2019 of 10 July 2019. To present the PSD bill, Mr. João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the 7082 petitioners No 128 / XIV / 2. a — acquire a species to protect, in the person of the first petitioner, Mr Ramons Vaz de Menezes. With this petition, they want to draw attention to the contradictions and losses of the legal regime applicable to the control of exotic species, which is applied on sport fishing. This situation has its genesis in Regulation ( EU ) 1143 / 2014 which required Member States to draw up a list of exotic species which did not bring financial or social benefits, providing for their eradication and, in the case of Micropterus salmoids, vulgar achiganian, their elimination of national watercourses. However, sports fishermen normally do fishing and freeing, and doing so would be a clear violation of their consciences and ethical standards of sport fishing, killing, without any need, millions of fish from the inland waters of Portugal. The generality of sports fishermen has environmentally responsible behavior and is therefore willing to fish, returning the fish to the water. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is this act of liberation that is being banned by the law in force and we, PSD, believe there has to be balance in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u158	We know that the prevention and control of exotic species are fundamental to ensuring the protection of biodiversity and mitigate the impacts of the introduction of animals or plants whose invasive character may be harmful to ecosystems and native species. in these efforts, there is a need for consideration in relation to the specific contexts of each species, also safeguarding socio-economic aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u160	Decree-Law No 112 / 2017, which establishes the legal regime for the planning and sustainable management of aquaculture resources in inland waters and regulates fishing activities, perfectly achieved this balance. In the specific case of recreational or sport fishing to the achiganese, carried out in albueiras, in lent or stopped waters, it was safeguarded the permission to return to the water after catch. Decree-Law No 92 / 2019 was subsequently published, establishing the legal regime applicable to the control, detention and repositioning of exotic species, transposing some Community legislation. in this context, the Acquigan began to integrate Annex II to the National List of Invasor Species, determining the prohibition of return to the nature of the captured specimens. In sports fishing, there are even strict rules in competitions, which require the return of fished specimens, so this legislation puts at risk the organization of important sporting events, which generate recipes for the hotel and restoration of these municipalities of the interior...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u161	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u162	... and undoes a knife in its investments in nature tourism, which, after all, is often the only way out for the economic development of these low-density councils.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u163	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u164	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Achilles is in fact a highly appreciated species and there is a strong socio-economic dynamics around their fishing. It is also relevant to point out that Decree-Law No 92 / 2019 provides for a list of specimens subject to the exemption scheme, because they have economic interest. Therefore, it is not understood why the Achilles do not have the same regime of exception, because it is an economically more interesting and important species for these regions of the interior of Portugal. Previously, the conditions of defense were laid down, the fixing of a minimum measure for its capture, being mandatory its retention in current waters and allowed its return in stopped waters. This definition was balanced and its return on trees, given the state of assimilation of the species, would — and will — have a very reduced environmental impact. By weighing all these factors, the PSD proposes that the Acquigan may integrate the list of species subject to an exceptional regime, and an amendment is made to Decree-Law No 92 / 2019, withdrawing it from Annex II, through Bill No 331 / XV / 1. the presented today, here, by the Social Democratic Party. The NAP, on its own initiative, in the draft resolution it presents, makes a generalisation which, in our view, is not correct, because it charges sports fishermen with responsibilities that they do not have — the eradication of exotic species — with blames and solutions that are not. We are also concerned about the impacts of exotic and invasive species on biodiversity, but, in this case, there is an exceptional situation that has to be duly weighed, with its costs and benefits, without being divided artificially by who is on the side of sinners or who is on the side of nature. The PSD is on both sides... [[PSD applause.]] ... and that is why, and also for the development of the interior of the country, we appeal to the various parliamentary groups, in particular the Socialist Party, who vote favourably for the bill presented here by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u165	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u166	Madam President: I begin by complimenting the petitioners. In fact, in this matter we have a vision that distances us from the PSD because we are talking about a species that has caused serious problems, from the point of view of biodiversity,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u167	You don't even know what a big guy is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u168	... forcing the displacement of existing biodiversity. It is a native species of the east and center of the United States, also of the south-east of Canada and northern Mexico, considered as a voraz predator, which has contributed to the decline in biodiversity. The PSD cannot at any time say that it wants to protect biodiversity and then propose its opposite. The honourable Member recently said that the NAP was trying to lay responsibility for sport fishing. The NAP is not charging anyone with responsibilities. What the studies tell us and recommend is that sport fishing and other economic fisheries can work, cooperate, so as not to introduce this predator, this invasive species. They also warn that it is urgent to invest in awareness and prevention, in order to prevent the pest or other invasive species from continuing to be introduced into rivers and banks, and not to declassify this species. [[PS protests.]] We must not forget that, at a time when we have so many campaigns to raise awareness of the problem of the proliferation of the achigan, but also of predatory species in our ecosystem, this would even be irresponsible on the part of the State. How many million euros have we spent on European Union funds to control invasive species? And you now want to liberalize a species that destroys the native species. If fishing mobilizes the economy, as you say, the challenge is to tell what damage this causes to our biodiversity. [[PS protests.]] That bill, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be much bigger than the one you are proposing today. Therefore, the NAP cannot be sidelined with an irresponsible initiative, which causes the decline in biodiversity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u169	That's so fucked up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u170	...and, therefore, we defend the maintenance of the Acquigan on the list of invasive species. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u171	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is a curious debate because, dragged to a petition, whose subscribers we greet, are under discussion two initiatives: a draft PSD law, recommending the withdrawal of the Acquigan from the annex to Decree-Law No. 92 / 2019, which classified the Acquigan as an invasive species, and a draft resolution of the PAN, which, almost unpublished, Mrs. Deputy, urges the Government to leave things as they are, which I think is an excellent prenunciation for future NAP initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u174	But let's start from the beginning. In fact, achigan is a species that poses risks to local biodiversity, especially when we talk about current waters. It was introduced in mainland Portugal in the middle of the last century and since then there have been two parallel phenomena: in current waters, it had, in fact, harmful effects, attacking local species, but it was also noted that, in the case of so-called lentic waters or stops — such as trees and dams — the species was controlled, in balance. Therefore, the NAP has two very simple problems: the first is the playful fishing that is associated with this fish, and on that it will not need to elaborate much. The second problem is related to a static notion of nature, in which all the changes introduced — provided they are by human hands — are considered catastrophic or prone to catastrophe. I should then like to ask what is the date for fixing Portugal's native fauna and flora for the NAP. Is that the Neolithic? Is that the paleolitic? And in that case, is it the lower, the middle or the higher? We'll wait for the answer, but we'll wait for you to sit down. [[NAP protests.]] In the case in hand, we have found that, probably against the will of the NAP, there are also no barriers in Portugal and, therefore, in these dams there are changes in local ecosystems that enable phenomena such as, for example, the introduction of the Acquigan. Therefore, from the analysis we have made of the case, it seems to us that the solution here proposed by the PSD is indeed balanced: to maintain the rules of catch regarding the achigan in current waters, where it causes damage, and to reverse that which was an excessively costly law for fishermen, in the case of stopped or indoor waters. The Liberal Initiative considers that in this way we will be able to strike a balance between the various economic and social activities around this animal, while ensuring that these same activities do not contribute to the ecological imbalance of our rivers in the future. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Eunice Pratas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u176	Madam President, before I speak, allow me to say that on this special day all the women, our history and our struggles, who are still continuing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the petitioners who brought this issue to the debate in plenary, demonstrating to us the importance of civic and participatory democracy. Today, we have two different views about the Achilles in Portugal. But when we look at this theme, we need to take into account several areas: economic, social, environmental and scientific. The truth is that the achigan is of a species with economic, gastronomic and sporting interest and contributes to the development of the interior of the country. The management of conflicts may seem difficult between these completely antagonistic interests, that of nature conservation and economic interest, but most likely the commitment of these interests will go through the implementation of a fish management according to the degree of environmental integrity in each aquatic system. However, in order to meet the management objectives of some exotic species, the measures may range from their control—because elimination is usually impractical—to the introduction of it scientifically sustainedly in ecosystems with a high degree of artificiality, ecosystems, these, where most of the achigan in Portugal is located. I stress that this discussion can only be fruitful with rigorous and scientific studies of sample observation and the path of the achiganan in natural or artificial ecosystems. Question: wouldn't it be better to introduce this species into the list of exceptions, until the studies were carried out and evaluated by the competent entities rather than on the list of exotic species, without assessing their subsequent impact on our economy and our ecosystems? Oh, my God! But we understand that the NAP no longer intends to interfere only in the defense of man and animal, it also intends to interfere in the relations between animals. And that, yes, Mrs. Deputy, is that it's counternature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u177	Inês, learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u178	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The party welcomes Mr Ramons Vaz de Menezes and other petitioners 128 / XIV / 2. a — Achigan ( Micropterus Salmonides ) a species to protect. We also welcome the initiatives of the PSD and the NAP. The question of maintenance or the possibility of withdrawal from the national list of invasive species is under discussion, where the species must be extinct for threatening indigenous species, without adding social, economic or cultural benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u181	This is not exactly the case of the Acquigan. The fish has been brought to Portugal for many decades and is now owned by numerous national banks and dams, with a strong cultural and leisure element associated with sport fishing, often in outermost areas of the national territory. We understand that this discussion would be much more rational if the protection of the environment had not become a fundamentalist dogma.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u183	The NAP is presented here today as the "public enemy #1" of the Acquisan. The petitioners' position is another. They are limited to defending an exceptional regime for an accepted species in many other European countries that respect environmental balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u185	The party arrives to encourage petitioners to look not only for Europe, but also for Africa. They'll understand better why the NAP doesn't make you right. For decades, the population explosion in Africa and the ultra-accelerated urban concentration have been one of the greatest misfortunes on the planet. Africa is approaching India and China in demographic terms. In the middle of this century, half of the African population will live in cities without minimum conditions: without sewage nets, with open-air light, river or maritime air pollution, growing shortage of water and forest resources, potential pandemics that can reach all continents, including Europe. It's all very obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u187	Population explosion, environmental disaster, poverty, violence and illegal emigration, to end up in deaths in the Mediterranean. But in Africa there is no Jair Bolsonaro. They're all left-wing regimes, friends of environmental fundamentalists. Communist China has severely destroyed Africa. The PAN didn't see it. The Russian mother sucked up the fishing resources of Africa. The PAN didn't see it. Those who have never put the demographic control of Africa at the top of the environmental agenda are not credible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u189	It remains to destroy lifestyles, traditions, economic, Portuguese and European activities to survive politically. That's what's called populism. This is the case with the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u191	Your political party, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, knows that petitioners present weighted solutions for the cohabitation of the Acquigan in Portuguese waters,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...where the fish is not threatening, and it has already been said. I am referring to lentic waters, stopped waters or with little movement, as is the case with albueiras and dams. This can be compensated by the fight against the species in lothic waters, i.e. in current waters, as is the case with rivers and rivers, and only there the risk of the achigan is greater. The party will follow the PSD position,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u193	... which reflects the concerns of the petitioners: the Acquigan becomes part of the list of exotic species subject to an exceptional regime. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u194	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet Mr Ramons Vaz de Menezes for the petition he has delivered and whose reading is truly recommended, because, agreeing or not, he represents a work of dedication, knowledge and, therefore, we should only thank and follow what is a civic act and an act of love for nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must say that, made this introduction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u196	It's been 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u197	...I do not follow the whole reasoning of your petition, and I will explain why.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u198	You don't have time now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u199	unlike my colleagues, before whose technical knowledge and expertise I bend, because I did not know, but are here extraordinary « achigologists»,... [[PS laughter.]] ... I would not like to come here « send fish posts ». [[PS laughter.]] [[CH protests.]] If I could finish! Open... What I know is that the revision of the Red Book of Freshwater Fish and Migrants is under way, for which many true specialists, many true academics, who are not in the Service Committee in the Assembly of the Republic, and I think that, until we have this review, it would be advisable for all parliamentary groups of all the parties represented in this House to be guided by a principle, yes, truly ecological, which is the principle of caution, to, until we have technical knowledge, we do not change the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u200	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. [[Pause.]] Mr. João Dias, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my neglect. First of all, we want to greet the more than 7000 petitioners, in particular the first petitioner Ramons Vaz Mendes, who bring this question about the protection of the Acquigan, who consider it to be of great importance in the interior territories. As is known, achigan is a highly valued species in the field of sport fishing, because it is indeed an important activity for the dynamisation of the communities of the interior regions and contributes to the diversification of the activity of these same regions. In fact, the Achilles themselves have a lot of interest in sport and play—we understand and understand this aspect—but it is also important to take into account some aspects of this species. First of all, its origin is not in national territory. This is a species which, having been introduced into national territory, has brought about changes in habitats. We can't deny that, because we're talking about a species at the top of the predatory chain. Still, it has been introduced into our habitats for a few decades and has been adapted to some changes in biodiversity and ecosystems where it lives. There really is a concern we have. When a new species does not have natural predators is introduced into national waters, an imbalance is created which, in the vast majority of cases, results in imbalance in the size of the population, with abnormal growth, and at the same time causes a reduction that is worrying, often alarming, of the native species. That's what we understand is that we need to be careful. We can't stop paying attention to the care we need. Thus, we understand that there is a need to find a balance between the prevalence of conditions favourable to the exercise of sports practice and the necessary safeguard of the biodiversity of river ecosystems. It is therefore essential that invasive species be controlled, but we must also not miss the opportunity to protect and safeguard the native species in our river environments. Therefore, we understand that very likely there is a need to document and study better what we are discussing, so in the view of the CFP, it seems to us to be warned that studies that identify precisely the effects and extent of this species have on our river ecosystems. The CFP also advocates that conditions are created so that this sports practice can have prevalence, may be deepened, because it is very relevant to our territories, especially to the interior territories. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u202	Mr Pedro Felipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first like to congratulate the petitioners, in particular the first subscriber to this petition, who gave a remarkable job to the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that few petitions can boast of having a technical component like this, which has been delivered, and we therefore welcome this act of citizenship which has also enabled us to discuss this matter better. It seems to us that at present there is no prejudice on the part of the State, but to assume preconceived ideas about the nature of the Acquigan and, in particular, about the population of the Acquigan in our inland waters, which are poured into law without this preparation. I believe that, first of all, there should be a real study that would allow these policy measures to be updated in a regular manner for a time, as it should be normal to happen. On the other hand, it does not seem to us that the legislative initiative, presented by the NAP, has a scientific basis that gives it consistency, but, first, again, comes from the same preconception that the law, currently, is already ill. On the other hand, we believe that the legislative initiative that the PSD is making is a good contribution to this matter, and we will therefore follow those claims, because it drinks from the scientific findings that exist. Achigan is not so problematic in stopped areas, it is more problematic in current areas, which should be taken into account in law. However, as I said recently, what would make sense was that there was a follow-up by public entities to animal populations and that this would lead to an update, when necessary, of these tables, of these practices. That would make sense. Let me finish by saying that I recognize that there is something wrong with Mr Mithá Ribeiro's head here. This is because when we talk about "Mother Africa", he thinks that Africa is the mother of all the problems, including that of the Acquisan! ...it is extraordinary how you have been able to speak of Africa, the peoples of the African continent, in a debate about the Acquigan. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u204	They're ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u205	Sir, calm down! It is resolved and possibly will have more interesting contributions on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u206	Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u207	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I leave a special greeting to the petitioner, Mr. Ramons Vaz de Menezes. 50 years ago, I worked in the parish of Alqueva, next to the Guadiana River, when I began to accompany some local fishermen in recreational fishing activities. At that time there were fears about the negative effects of the presence of the Acquigan on the watercourses and on the reefs of our territory. Over five decades, the Achilles is one of the exotic species that better adapted and whose impact on native populations existed, but was residual and more meaningful when it was introduced in some very specific places. Fifty years ago, fishing in inland waters has an important socio-economic impact at local level, both in the size of play fishing and in sports and professional. As a sporting and recreational activity, it contributes to the dynamization of the rural environment, particularly important within the country. Achigan is one of the most important fish in sports fishing and high gastronomic interest. There is a high direct and indirect contribution to this activity in the development of various sectors of the economy, such as the trade in equipment and accessories, the hotel industry and restoration, local and regional trade, crafts and tourism in rural areas. Last weekend I was at the Rio Fish Festival, in Landroal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u208	Look there if you invited? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u209	... and a little throughout the interior are consolidated, in recent years, gastronomic festivals where traditional dishes are tasted in which the achigan is the dominant ingredient. Championships in the fishing world, national championships, competitions, convivios, many with national and international fame and hundreds of participants, confirm the importance of these initiatives and their relevance in the promotion of tourism and in the development of the interior territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u211	Exhibitions and fairs, such as the Morapesca, which I also visited last Sunday, are certain that they mobilize thousands of people and host the largest companies in the sector, which present the latest technologies and articles related to sport fishing and, in particular, the fishing of Acquisan. For the PS Parliamentary Group, it is of the utmost importance to prevent and control exotic species by mitigating the threats they pose to biodiversity. Community regulations allow each State to make its own list of species considered invasive, weighing the degree of concern that each species may bring or cause...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u212	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u213	... and the social and economic benefits that this species can bring to each Member State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u214	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u215	I will finish, Madam President. in this weighting, it is important to evaluate the role of achigan in the development of rural environment, in the increase of tourism, in the development of sports and leisure activities, in the benefits for the economy of the country and the regions of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u217	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Of course, with regard to the first interpellation of the PS, particularly with regard to animals, I am very surprised, Mrs Eunice Pratas, who does not know the studies of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature and the Forests) which alert to the danger of invasive species. in this measure, it is not a fundamentalism of the NAP, but a legitimate concern with the decline of biodiversity. Even more so, as Mrs Deputy is such a young Member, I am very surprised that she does not worry about it either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u218	Fundamentalist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u219	With regard to the Liberal Initiative, I do not want you to wait for me to sit down, quite the contrary. The Acquigan was introduced in 1950 on the Portuguese continent and therefore we do not need to go to the paleolithic — quite the contrary — to realize the impact it has and the importance of not being in any way light with the introduction. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Only with regard to the arrival, Mr. Deputies, do I not understand the intercontinental journey you have made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u221	I shall conclude, Madam President, until you have let me finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u222	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u223	As I said, I do not realize the intercontinental journey that the arrival has made, but I am very pleased to see the Arrival, which is a nationalist party, having open doors at least for invasive species, because unfortunately for people, it often defends closed door policies. [[L.]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u224	Oh, are people invasive species? Oh, my God! It's said! I even find it hard to talk today!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u225	We have reached the end of the second point, so we move on to the third point... [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your silence, or then I will be silent and we will all be here, I have listened to you, shut up, the hours that are necessary. We moved on to point three, with the appreciation of Petition No 342 / XIV / 3. a ( Maria José Pinheiro Cruz ) — Creation of a public veterinary hospital in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 374 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to reduce the number and mitigate the effects of abandonment of pets due to increased inflation, 387 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a network of public veterinary services and the construction of a public veterinary hospital and 391 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the encouragement of the establishment of primary medical and veterinary care networks. To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and the petitioners who brought this debate, which is absolutely relevant, to the Assembly of the Republic. The requirement that the State give to those who have a connection with an animal of estimation, the possibility of that animal being treated in a public veterinary hospital is a claim that is perceived, understood and should also be a concern of the State. This is even more so when we see that the economic difficulties, such as those we have felt over the past few months, have led to an increase in animals, whose owners are unable to maintain this connection with them, often being abandoned. From this point of view, this reality should deserve a first and unequivocal action from the State: to improve the income of families, to protect families from the loss of purchasing power, to ensure that they also assumed these responsibilities before their pets. Unfortunately, this is not the government's choice. The government thought it was in the wages that was the problem of inflation; now, even the European Central Bank realizes that the problem is in the abusive profits of large companies, but the government continues not to move in the wages and to leave the wages behind. This petition is absolutely central to the challenge made by the State, saying that the State should have a responsibility for pets and for people who have such a relationship with animals. For our part, we follow this claim and we present a legislative initiative, a draft resolution, which aims, firstly, to adopt the measures of the economy to value incomes — what I said earlier — to constitute a public service of veterinary care and sterilizations, in particular in relation to municipalities, to provide veterinary hospitals with a link to higher education, thus also allowing to drink of the capacity currently available in higher education and to provide these services to the populations, and to create an emergency support program to associations that collect and care for abandoned animals, because they are the first line of defense of the rights of animals and who respond, when there is inhumanity to abandon an animal. These claims are the most sensible at the moment and we hope that they will have the ability to convince the other parliamentary groups of the Republic Assembly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u227	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u228	Again, Inês? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners here today, as well as the animal protection associations, for the work they have done and for bringing us this theme, which is absolutely essential not only for the NAP, but for civil society in general, which has been defended for several years and which is essential: the creation of a public network of medical and veterinary services. We all know the importance of pets today in family aggregates and we also know what human beings are capable of, not only in the size of ill-treatment, but also in the solidarity and connection with pets. We also know what the cost of living has affected families because we are talking about an increase of almost 21% compared to 2021. Let us therefore think of the difficulties that most vulnerable people, with pets, have in feeding and providing health care for their animals, particularly homeless people, and the absolutely essential role that associations have played in this matter. Animal protection associations over the years have replaced the State in welcoming, caring, referral to adoption, but also in providing health care. Although extraordinary support lines have been created, we have been here repeatedly rejected as proposals to create these support lines for animal protection associations. We have also repeatedly proposed, in the context of the State budget, the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) in veterinary care and in feeding animals, proposals that have always been dropped and that would have an important impact on families and associations. But in spite of these rejections, other proposals were adopted in this area, not only the EUR 13 million to support the associations, whose warnings have to emerge as soon as possible, such as what is required by the petitioners today: the establishment of a public veterinary hospital, which was enshrined by the NAP in the State Budget for 2022, and the network of public veterinary services, enshrined in the State Budget for 2023. So today, the initiative presented by the NAP is not to be weighted and discussed whether or not a public network should be created, but rather to be executed, because that is what the law already provides. I conclude by welcoming once again the associations and petitioners, noting the high importance of building not only a hospital as a public network of veterinary services. What's left to know is not whether it's going to be built, but when it's going to be built.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u230	To present the draft resolution of the Arrival, Mr. Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u231	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are, of course, of gratitude to whom we have been brought here today, this very important issue. Thank you very much to all the petitioners and very much to all those who, having no obligation to take care of anyone's animals—as opposed to me, who have made a professional oath to do so—are caregivers of battered and abandoned animals, and do so voluntarily so many times with much personal sacrifice. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, here is our gratitude and our full appreciation for your work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u232	We know that, in times of crisis, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the animals are the ones that stay behind most of the time. We also know that for many people this is not a priority theme, because it is true that there are shortcomings in other areas. There are deficiencies in health, in hospitals that close, at INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) that are delayed, in the lack of doctors specialists and in the lack of family doctors. There are gaps in education, teachers and assistants who feel devalued, street demonstrations, closed schools. In agriculture there are also shortcomings, in the face of incomes of farmers who feel raped, destitute and with demonstrations on the street. In the housing, there are shortages, increased credit benefits, people live piled up in unconditional homes. There are shortcomings in justice, security, immigration, transport, food prices. Finally, I could continue here all day, because we know that the economic and social situation is dramatic. But we also know of the banishment of the millions of the Socialist Party, of the billions deeply buried in the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), of the millionaire salaries of politicians and public managers, of contracts for friends, of ruinous PPPs (public-private partnerships) road, of waste of the State budget, finally of the money lost every year in corruption. But, on this issue of animal care, successive governments have announced only miserable money, working groups, national strategies and everything has been in it for decades. The abandonment of animals is daily, increases, and ill-treatment also increases every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u234	If the Socialist Party and the Government have the knife and cheese of the Portuguese in hand, at least the VAT of veterinary and food treatments should have fallen. The arrival, and your parliamentary group, has already proposed this right here, in this legislature. And how did the Socialist Party vote? He voted against. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in fact, there are families that deliver their old animals and sick in dogs, because they do not care for them and do not want to see them set in front of them. Can you imagine how this traumatizes a man or a woman? Oh, my God! And what trauma will leave this to the children of the families who have to do it? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, how does this House change the Civil Code, making it clear that it is the duty of the detainer to ensure medical and veterinary care, but then it makes it difficult for people and families to meet these legal obligations? Oh, my God! But, after all, only the rich can have animals, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Animals are not luxury goods. Animals have a role in society that is indisputable and indisputable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u236	Since 1925 it is mandatory for all municipalities to have canis, which later became known as official collection centres (CROs) for animals. Still—we are all afraid—to this day, this obligation is far from being met by all the municipalities, and most of them with executives of the two party colors most represented here, in this House. Mrs. Members, it has been mandatory for all municipalities to have a municipal veterinarian, but today almost half of the country does not have it. For more than a decade, they haven't been appointed. Whose responsibility is it? Oh, my God! of the Government of the Socialist Party. As far as possible, ladies and gentlemen. If we do not have municipal veterinarians, do we not have any facilities to allow them to be taken care of the lost, abandoned, injured, or deprived of their families? Oh, my God! A lot has already been done by veterinary doctors, often without adequate means, because they have made an oath equal to mine and cannot turn their backs. I speak of municipal veterinary doctors, but the truth is that many veterinarians of private practice also provide enormous help, receiving injured animals from associations and deprived families, since they also do what the State should do. The Order of Veterinary Physicians and their staff have also done their part, alerting to the problem, recalling the concept of unique health and trying to create solutions such as that of Veterinary Cheque, together with some municipalities. Finally, I could also talk about what happened in the Serra da Agrela, which made it quite clear how the government failed to monitor, despite the numerous complaints, because, knowing the existence of that animal stock, nothing did. Then he tried to clear his face and threw the blame on DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary), removing his skills in this matter. In this regard, there are two things to be said: firstly, the lack of means, both the DGAV and the ICNF, are a chronic problem that the Socialist Party and the governments have never resolved or wanted to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u237	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u238	I will finish, Madam President. Obviously, the shift of competences from one side to the other, as well as the creation of the Provider of Animals, was just a makeup. What the Arrival proposes is very simple: it is enough to use what we already have in Portugal, and to optimize existing resources, so that they work online and so that in Portugal we can all treat animals appropriately. We are waiting to see how the Socialist Party will vote on our fair proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u239	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u240	... and so necessary, since animal welfare policies are not made of propaganda, but of concrete acts. We know that this is not the strength of the PS, but we have never lost hope.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u241	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u242	Hope is always the last to die! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u243	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group the subscribers to Petition No 342 / XIV/3. a ( Maria José Pinheiro Cruz ) — Creation of a public veterinary hospital, whose first subscriber is Maria José Pinheiro Cruz, and I thank them. I also welcome the parties that have presented initiatives relating to animal welfare, specifically the Left Block, the PAN and the Arrival. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, we have a group of initiatives which, in general, aim to contribute to animal welfare and, in this particular case, we have the proposal to create a public veterinary hospital. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies the concerns expressed, because we know that the affectionate relationship between pets and people has been valued and strengthened. More and more, families adopt their animals as an integral part of their homes, recognizing the benefits that come from it, from a sentimental and emotional point of view, in various dimensions. The living proof of this is that today the animal has become a constant presence, both in the home and in the home, and even in the business. We believe that this is a concern of the whole population in general and, in particular, of the Government, which, together with all the stakeholders, must take steps to reduce the abandonment and ill-treatment of animals. It should be noted that there are also zoophilic associations throughout the country, which have played a decisive role in sensitization and protection, and this is often voluntary work and, in some cases, even very demanding, which, essentially, has contributed in a very fruitful way to support all animal owners who need such support. We cannot fail to record, throughout the territory, continuous work and, in some cases, exemplary work in this area, and in this regard we must highlight the inter-help between State bodies, local authorities and associations, with a view to providing care and obtaining excellent results for the owners of animals. Similarly, we should mention the role of medical-veterinary care centres, managed by animal protection associations, with reduced prices. I also wanted to strengthen the fundamental role of the municipalities, which, in compliance with their animal welfare regulations, make a fundamental contribution to reducing acts of violence against animals and encourage the implementation of measures to combat abandonment and continuously promote animal adoption. Therefore, the financial support already allocated to municipalities, through the State budgets, is intended to provide better conditions to create new collection centres, expand and benefit existing facilities and equip the medical-veterinary offices, in particular through the provision of a room for sterilization. The municipalities that wish to do so may create municipal medical-veterinary care centres for the care of animals missing from the most deprived municipalities, which should always comply with their requirements regarding the installation, organization and operation. On the other hand, the decision to establish health care centres should be duly weighted, given the impact it will have on the State budget and on families, including those which do not have pets. For this reason, many municipalities benefited from these financial support, but not all chose as an option the creation of sterilization rooms, preferring to protocol with previously authorised medical-veterinary care centers, either for sterilizations, or for animal treatment. As for the adoption of the Veterinary Check, this is a resource whose choice will be for the municipalities to make, in conjunction with the Order of Veterinary Physicians. Currently, there are already some tools to support deprived families, including access to care centres managed by animal protection associations, which practice, as I have already said, lower prices. It is our understanding that the policy on pet animals should also focus on the accountability of detainees, which presupposes awareness of the requirements that such adoption entails. It is essential to continue campaigns to raise awareness and prevent the abandonment of animals, in order to raise awareness of future owners to acquire only one animal, if they can guarantee the necessary means for their detention, which also means ensuring medical care. The existence of a public hospital implies a permanent medical-veterinary service and the fulfilment of a series of requirements provided for in the legislation in force, which presupposes the existence of human and operational resources, as well as very demanding structures, with the high costs that arise there. The question of the definition of quantity and equity in the distribution of these veterinary hospitals is also raised in order to ensure the provision of medical-veterinary services throughout the country and to avoid inequalities in this supply throughout the territory. There was still a doubt as to who would benefit from the services provided in this kind of hospital...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u245	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u246	... and what criteria for the allocation of these benefits. Thank you, Madam President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u247	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I obviously begin by welcoming the petitioners, saying that in the Liberal Initiative we believe that there is a need for a strengthening of the network of veterinary care, which, on the one hand, prevents the abandonment of animals on economic grounds—as has often been said today—and that it also prevents, on the other hand, that this abandonment or the lack of veterinary care may constitute a public health problem. We will therefore support the proposals that are aimed at strengthening cooperation between the central State and the municipalities, as well as the private and social initiative, with the aim of combating abandonment and the effects of abandonment for animals whose owners have greater difficulties or, in general terms, for the entire population in the field of public health. For this purpose, it would also be very useful to have an analysis by the Government of the application of Law No 27 / 2016 as well as the investment made in this area, so that we know, in a regular and updated manner, not only the numbers of the official collection centres, but also, above all, their results, conditions and activities. Only in this way can we invest, in an informed manner, with data, in the expansion and articulation of the network that already exists today, also with the private and social sectors, because it does not seem to us that we need to replicate the problems that already exist in the SNS, that is, it does not seem important that the State is the owner of the hospital and that the State is always the provider. What matters most in this case — as it is a necessary public service, since, obviously, the control of the animal population is not only for the animal health itself, but also for the health of the population — is that the State is the financier, but that the benefit can also be guaranteed by the private and social sectors, provided that, once supported, they comply with the legislation in force, respecting animal welfare, so that there are no more cases such as those which, appreciably recently, still last year, have become public and that have shocked the country. It is also important to keep the focus on domestic sterilization campaigns that have even produced good results. They are to encourage and continue, so that by collecting, sterilizing and vaccinating the populations of errant animals, if they continue to hold protocols not only with medical-veterinary centres, but also with educational establishments and other institutions and associations of animal protection, which have, together, contributed to this problem becoming less and less. in this context, it is important to follow this path, of continuing good results. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u249	Mr João Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we appreciate Petition No 342 / XIV/ 3. a ( Maria José Pinheiro Cruz ) — The creation of a public veterinary hospital, signed by 16 113 petitioners, fulfilling, on behalf of the Democratic Social Party, in the person of Dr. Maria José Pinheiro Cruz, the first subscriber to this petition. As a result, today we also consider some draft resolutions by different parties on the subject under discussion and we will, within the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries, appreciate draft resolution No 485 / XV / 1. a, of the Social Democratic Party, which, for matters of time and time, cannot be appreciated in this plenary session. However, the position of the PSD in this area, contained in the draft resolution and recommendation to the Government, which is, of course, in support of the petitioners'claims will be taken here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, changing social and cultural standards, family organization and even civilizational led many family members to choose to have one or more pets in their home. However, as we know, the maintenance and health care of these pet animals, who have become part of their own family aggregate, require considerable financial effort, which is not within reach of all. In the face of the growing and systematic loss of Portuguese purchasing power — aggravated by the galloping inflation of recent times, which runs through family budgets — families find themselves in great economic difficulties in dealing with food, basic care, compulsory preventive treatment — such as vaccines, for example — and medical and veterinary treatments when their animals are ill. These treatments cost hundreds, if not thousands of euros, and are not within the reach of the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, especially the most disadvantaged, being often forced to leave their animals or to let them die, without treatment and in suffering, when they could and should be saved, if there were medical-veterinary support at prices compatible with the possibilities of each family. It is in this sense that the present petition, the objectives of which the PSD accompanies, generally. In fact, contrary to what the title of the petition suggests, we had the opportunity to realise — during the hearing of the petitioners, that the PSD coordinated and whose report it prepared — that the intended is not a veterinary hospital, as it was recently understood, but rather a national network of medical and veterinary support to be protocoled with the State, which allows the provision of medical acts by values supported by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u253	In fact, the creation of a root hospital would not solve a problem that is national, because it would not be a hospital in Lisbon or in Porto that would solve the problem of all Portuguese and all over the country. [[PSD applause.]] For the PSD, this would also not be acceptable because, in addition to the uncomplicated costs, it would discriminate most of the national territory. Thus, it is intended that municipal canes, CROs, veterinary doctors, veterinary, public and private faculties, with their hospitals, private clinics and veterinary hospitals and other actors on the ground, such as associations for animal welfare existing in the national territory, may provide these services at sustainable prices and according to the income of each family, by establishing protocols or service contracts between the State and those institutions or entities. The necessary values should, of course, be properly guarded and provided for in the next State budgets, since the labour law will hardly allow for the immediate accommodation of funds. We hope that the government will understand, accept and do so. It is also recommended that the Government, having regard to the Order of Physicians, the National Association of Veterinary Physicians of the Municipalities, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and other sectoral associations, should undertake a study and survey of the entities qualified to provide existing health and animal welfare care throughout the national territory, to enable such care to be provided in an acceptable and affordable way, physically and financially, to all Portuguese families with domestic or pet animals and to enable them to also collect and treat errant animals. Actions in this regard constitute preventive measures of the abandonment of animals, being a bet on animal health and consequently a bet on public health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u254	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate everyone, as well as the petitioners, for their civic intervention and for bringing us a subject that deserves reflection and analysis. We understand that animal welfare issues often cross with public health issues. Therefore, the PCP's intervention heritage in this area has several examples of positive measures, such as the law of official collection centres, of the PCP initiative, which represents a huge advance, with the end of the slaughter or killing of errant animals. There have been problems in the implementation of this law, since the lack of resources, with insufficient funds for the CROs and also for sterilization — another initiative that the CFP has also advanced, at its own time, and there is, by the responsibility of the Government, a great insufficiency of municipal veterinarians to perform functions as a veterinary health authority. Over the years we have continued to make proposals for strengthening these areas in the various State budgets, such as the most recent example of the State budget for 2023. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that, in view of the shortcomings in what is basic, in particular in strengthening the means for local veterinary health authorities, the lack of resources in the CROs and the dismantling of existing structures, we believe it is inappropriate to « start building the house on the roof ». It is necessary to begin by consolidating progress in the foundations of an animal welfare policy and not doing what the government has done, which has moved this area from DGAV to the ICNF, contrary to the guidelines of the World Organisation for Animal Health and the Federation of Veterinary Europeans. The dismantling of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture is under way, leaving structures which would have the capacity to consolidate an integrated view of the welfare of pets with animal health in a more general way. This process needs to be reversed and funding needs to be provided to higher education institutions, and many of them end up working with the poorest population in the face of the needs that arise. Before moving forward with solutions that seem simple, without prejudice to the need to deepen these matters for the future, it is necessary to undo what has been done wrong and consolidate the most urgent responses in this area, which continue to be scarce due to the lack of government investment. It must also be borne in mind that the problems of animal abandonment are not linked to the worsening of the economic and social situation. The costs of essential goods, housing, energy and also feeding pet animals themselves continue to weigh on many families, while the economic groups of large distribution, energy and banking continue to record record record record profits. at the same time, there is still a lack of policies that guarantee the mechanisms of awareness, prevention and supervision, something that only resolves with the public investment that has so much been lacking. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u256	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet our fellow citizen Maria José Pinheiro Cruz, his fellow students and his fellow students. Many of you attended the previous debate and discovered, perhaps startlingly, that the Acquigan was a fracturing theme. At least I feel more reassured to see that all the political parties represented in this House recognize, in some way or another, the problem that your petition identifies. We'll be on our way. The question, now, is what speed and how to get there, but everyone agrees, not only for animals, but also for people who do not have the financial capacity to cope with the costs of veterinary care for their animals, especially in this economic context, which is important to give alternatives. The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, in Lisbon, historically provided such services and the Free believes that this can be done through the network of our universities, helping those who already have veterinary medicine courses, in order to give such support. Still, territorial coverage is not so bad. There are regions, particularly in the South, in the Algarve, that do not have such coverage, but, in fact, by providing public support to veterinary medicine faculties and veterinary medicine courses in universities that want and can do so, we can stimulate the creation of new courses and thus create for those that cover the entire national territory—the continent and autonomous regions—to be able to provide these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u258	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u259	Thank you very much for your petition and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-08.u260	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this agenda item and we congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners. I would like to point out the agenda for our meeting tomorrow, which will start at 3 p.m.: in the first item, under the agenda set out the requirement of the Arrival, on the « combating sexual abuse of minors in Portugal », we will have the debate of the Bills Nos 150 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Prevents the suspension of the execution of the sentence in case of conviction for crimes of sexual abuse of children or other relatives, 600 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases the protection of victims of sexual abuse of minors, thus changing the Penal Code, and 601 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating the penalties applicable to crimes of sexual abuse of children and other related persons, of Resolution Projects Nos 461 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the fight against child sexual abuse and 504 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Conduct a national victim investigation and ensure the establishment of a permanent complaint channel for sexual abuse, and of Bills Nos 8 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation, amending the Penal Code, 610 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Increases the limitation period for complaints of child sexual abuse, amending the Penal Code, and 611 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Alter the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, extending the prescribed period of crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation being the minor victim. At the end of the debate, the vote will be taken. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. I wish everyone a good remnant of International Women's Day and until tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 36 minutes.]]
