ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. For the reading of the file, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u2	Mr President, I shall take account of the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President : Proposal for a Law No 78 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 745 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, and 764 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and Draft Resolution Nos 682 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 683 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 688 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 689 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u3	The agenda for today's sitting, as set out in the request of the PSD Parliamentary Group, consists in a joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 185 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions through investment in improving health conditions in these territories, 225 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the review and updating of regional territorial planning programmes and improve the conditions of connectivity of the interior with a view to greater territorial cohesion, 335 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop irrigation policies to promote the competitiveness of the interior regions, 346 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions through investment in heritage, culture and sport and 359 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions through investment in improving accessibility conditions for these territories. For the presentation of these initiatives, I give the floor to Mr. João Barbosa de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we have discussed is about the forgotten country, the country that is desertification and despair. It's about territories that are going back, without forces to fight abandonment. For this debate I would like to call Aunt Antonieta, 78 years old, who lives in a village in the parish of Cachopo, deep in the Algarve. Antonieta used to rely on herself, because soon she felt that the country was failing her. Portugal failed Aunt Antonieta when, years ago, her husband did not resist a heart attack because he did not reach the hospital in time. The phone network, in the fireplace where she dug with her husband, was weak and the neighbors only connected to 112 when they heard her screams. at that time, the ambulance started, far away, and ran up top, in curve and countercurve, and, after collecting the sick, again, saw down, in curve and countercurve. But it was late... The country had already failed Antonieta when, many years before, the children had left Cachopo, behind each other, first to study, then to work. They all married outside and looked, of course, where they found opportunities. No one lived near there. The country continued to fail Antonieta when the grandchildren stopped spending their holidays there, because there was no internet and it cut their social life. One still thought of building a cottage on a grandpa's land. But the country failed again when it plunged the project due to incomprehensible impositions of outdated and outdated territorial management instruments. [[PSD applause.]] Thanks for giving up, the grandson wasn't close when his grandfather felt bad. Portugal had also already failed when it did nothing to protect the production of medron pendant that rounded the yields of the couple and when it did not build the bark that would have allowed to water the vegetables.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u6	This debate is about these men and women who, in many territories, feel that the country fails them. And it's both for the Antonietas, who don't give up, and for those who lower their arms. It is for these reasons that the PSD will continue to insist on the subject, because, we all know, hemorrhage has not stopped with the current governance. [[PSD applause.]] No country has resources for everyone to have everything everywhere, we know it well, but we will only have a developed country if we ensure minimums throughout the territory where people live — people who can be more or less enterprising, have more or less health, be more or less legal. The projects that the PSD brings focus on the five areas I mentioned above: accessibility, access to health, digital connectivity, support to the rural world, protection of heritage and traditions. They have no intention of exhausting the subject, nor of solving everything, but they give a sign that Portugal cannot fail. We will only reach the country that we can be when, in all territories, each one can develop his or her life project. In the opposition or in the Government, the PSD shall not give up or give up any territory of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u7	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. [[Pause.]] The request for clarification was closed before I could identify him. I am therefore correct: you do not have any requests for clarification. Thank you very much for your intervention. For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The visit of 13. the Algarve Commission, this week, and this power schedule of the PSD give me the opportunity to do what I like most, which is to talk about my land. The Algarve obtained the best rate of hotel occupancy per room last April, not only compared to 2022, not only compared to the year before the pandemic, but the best month since April 1996, that is, since there are records. If the country, since 2016, and discounting the pandemic period, has always grown above the European average, the Algarve has always grown above the national average, thus contributing decisively to Portugal's convergence with Europe. The pandemic was not only overcome, the pandemic was overcome. And it was won because the revenue of the Socialist Party Government was not the cuts on the right, it was not the policy of impoverishment to go beyond the troika, but it was the support to the workers, it was the layoff, which ensured the payment of wages, and it was the maintenance of the productive capacity of the companies in the region, which today beat all records, including the most important of all indicators: profitability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The EUR 300 million package of additional Community funds to accelerate the diversification of the economic base by 2030 and develop sectors of expertise complementary to tourism is an opportunity for this region to reduce its exposure to a chronic economic monoculture and create new jobs, with more specialized and better remuneration, in areas complementary to tourism and, of course, within. But it is obvious that tourism and real estate will continue to be the engine of our economy for many years, and the continuous and exponential growth of visitors, tourists and new residents poses new challenges. The first is that of housing: 14 of the 16 municipalities of Algarve recorded average prices above the national average. For example, the municipality of Vila do Bispo, which we visited on Monday, is 4. the municipality of the country with higher value of bank assessment per square metre. The construction of affordable housing is a social urgency, patent, in fact, because we have been the first region in the country where all municipalities have approved their local housing strategies. We are therefore sensitive to the need, expressed by the authorships, to land-use, particularly in the interstitial areas of the urban perimeters and in the interior villages, to build housing of municipal initiative or cooperatives, houses that are compatible with workers' income and that are intended for workers, young people and the middle class, but not houses or exceptions for real estate speculation and apartments at EUR 1 million. The second central dimension is that of health. We must not fail to acknowledge and regret the delays and delays in the construction of the new central hospital. Today, we have a university course of medicine with more students, we have more nurses, we have more doctors, we have more clinical differentiation, we have more investment. We have provided regional financial resources for the construction of a new oncological unit, so that the algae stop going to Lisbon or have to go to Seville for treatment. We planned EUR 55 million in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) to carry out re-qualification works in health centres. But we need the Ministry of Health, once and for all - I repeat, once and for all - to launch the international competition for the construction of the new central hospital of the Algarve, for the municipalities to give the land. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u9	The third priority is mobility. The electrification of the Algarve railway line is currently under way when the PSD in the election campaign said that we had to consider this investment — EUR 80 million. In parallel, the region assumed to move forward with the CCDR ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development ) Algarve, with the construction of a metro connection between Olhão, Faro and Loule,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u10	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u11	... where 40% of the population lives, interconnecting airport, university and City Park. On the Via do Infante, the policy of reducing tolls implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party made crossing the Algarve cost less than 44 % today than it cost in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u12	Don't tell anyone that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u13	But we remain vigilant about the need to put an end to the long-standing legal dispute between the State and the National Road Dealer No 125, which, after the Court of Auditors had concluded that the renegotiation of contracts by the PSD/CDS Government was detrimental to the public interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u14	Hey, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u15	... now calls on the State to compensate more than EUR 400 million to give the Government the possibility of reclassifying the entire national road No 125. With the growing economy and unemployment in historic minimums, the Algarve looks to the future with confidence. By 2030, we will have between the PRR and Portugal 2030 more than EUR 1000 million of Community support to implement, which contrasts with the 300 000 negotiated in Brussels by the former PSD Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u16	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u17	... and, of course, EUR 200 million negotiated in Brussels by Prime Minister António Costa, when there was still no mention of drought to ensure water quality and quantity in the Algarve — not only investments that reduce the losses of the system but that create new sources available to the region. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not hide the difficulties that exist, but we seek to have an effective solution for each problem and the guarantee of the financial means to implement it. Moreover, we know that nothing is offered to the Algarve and that everything is achieved with much struggle. And we're not here for anything else. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u18	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Luís Graça, like me, are elected by the Algarve region. Mr President, certainly, of the algae that heard him speak from above that pulpit, no one understood what he said, because that is not what they feel every day. Look, I'm going to tell you about last month's news: « Algarve is the region where unemployment has increased most since 2019 ». The speaker showed the news he mentioned. This is news last month. It's not five years ago, not six years ago, not seven years ago, it's last month. How do you explain this? You come here to sell the Algarve of Wonders, but there is no Algarve of Wonders. There is an Algarve of the Real Country, and it is an Algarve that is with many difficulties, because the Socialist Party has forgotten the region of the Algarve. [[Congrats from the CH.]] More: in December 2022, higher poverty rates are in Tres-os-Montes and — guess where! - in the Algarve. I mean, where is this wonderful socialist Algarve? It doesn't exist! Poverty and unemployment are what exist today in the Algarve. There are posts of the GNR ( Republican National Guard) within which it rains, such as in Monchique, that we had the opportunity to visit a very short time ago. It rains in there like it's on the street! And unfortunately, in the Algarve it doesn't rain much. When they are now in severe drought, what has the Socialist Party done to prevent the Algarve from being the area of the country where the drought is severe, where there is extreme drought?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u20	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u21	They haven't done anything! That is what the Socialist Party has done by the Algarve. As for drug trafficking, the region of the country where it has increased most is that of the Algarve, where even the police boats are stolen by the traffickers—and it is important to say this too. Mr. Deputy, are you going up there to talk on tolls? Oh, my God! Do you have the discharge to speak on tolls, when António Costa, in 2015, promised that he would finish the tolls on the Via do Infante?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u23	It was an election promise by Antonio Costa, in 2015. And the honourable Member: « No, no, we dropped by 44 %. » They did not fall by 44 %, the algae continue to pay for tolls, and many tolls. Another example of how the central government of Lisbon has forgotten the Algarve : on January 1, 2023, the motorway between Lisbon and the Algarve was the one that increased in the country. This is what they've given the Algarve. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, Mr President, I would like to ask you how it would be if it were a child's father in Alcoutim, in the Algarve, forgotten by the central power, forgotten by the socialist government, where there is only one school until 9. the year — the school in Alcoutim is up to 9. year. To fulfill the 12th. the year, you have to go either to Mértola or to Castro Marim. We're talking about 40 km. Students, children, have to do more than 40 km daily on nearly unconditional roads. Is this territorial cohesion? Is that what the Government of the Socialist Party has given to the Algarve? No, that's not it. The Algarve needs much more, and it is not the socialist policies that it needs, because these have only impoverished the Algarve, which has been the most forgotten area in the country. Finally, Mr. Deputy, when he went to campaign in Silves and St. Bartolomeu of Messines, he promised the new prison establishment. Certainly you remember this, it was one of the great flags of the Socialist Party. In this House, the Chega presented a draft resolution on the new prison establishment of the Algarve. What did the Socialist Party do? He voted against,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u25	... including the five Members elected by the Algarve. You come to defend the Algarve, or say you defend the Algarve? For God's sake, sir, have decency and decorum. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u26	To reply, Mr Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Pinto, knowing the Algarve does not limit itself to watching CMTV (Manhã's Mail TV ). There's a lot more Algarve beyond the news, always necrophages, from CMTV. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u28	But what's the problem with CMTV?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u29	He talked about the water. I want to know if the party arrives is against the 200 million euro project that the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party have to guarantee water to the Algarve. Is it against the desalination plant?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u30	No, no, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u31	Is it against the collection of water in Pomarão?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u32	I'm in favor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u33	Is it against the works that are planned for the reduction of losses? Is it against the works that are planned inside the dams for the capture of the dead volume? So, if it's not against, what did you come here to say more about the water issue? Zero! Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u34	No, no! You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u35	You speak of the Way of the Child. over these years, we have reduced the tolls on the Infant Route by 44 % — 44 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u36	But they promised zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u37	In 2015, crossing the Algarve on the Via do Infante cost 11, 60 €, today costs 6, 60 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u38	Well, it costs!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u39	Mr President, this is called to comply with what has been said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] What we promise the crows, contrary to what you do, is to promise everything, because you never expect to achieve it, was to reduce the cost of the tolls to 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u40	No, it was abolishing! Abolish!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u41	We have reduced by 44 % so far. What I hope, as a member of the Socialist Party elected by the Algarve, is that the committee which the Government set up here, by Parliament's decision, in the framework of the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u42	One more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u43	... define the discount policy we're going to have in the future, so that we can reach that 50 % target. And, honourable Member, I really like to talk about security forces, and I know that there are problems in many teams, but I invite you next week to go with me to the launch of the new nuclear medicine unit at Portimão Hospital. Then we will go to Lagos to see the new facilities of GNR, we can go to Vila Real de Santo António to see the new facilities of the PSP (PSC),...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u44	I've gone, I've gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u45	... we can go to the Quarter to see the new facilities of the GNR...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u46	What about Monchique?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u47	...and we can go to Almancil, which is next door, see the new GNR facilities, because you don't know the Algarve. You don't know the Algarve! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u48	I know, I know! What about Monchique? We can talk about Monchique.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u49	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u50	Are you going to talk about the Algarve? Are you going there on vacation? You can talk about Vilamoura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time, the PSD brings to the debate this issue of the competitiveness of the country's interior, because the Liberal Initiative strongly believes that the asphyxiating centralism and the Lisbon macrocephaly are exactly one of the main responsible for our underdevelopment. In order for our interior to develop—in the words of the PSD, "to be more competitive"—it must become, and these words are ours, more attractive, more attractive to those who already live or want to live, to those who work there or want to work, to those who have already invested or want to invest there. Now, the large number of people from the interior who have moved to the coast and the small number of people from the coast who have moved to the interior show that this attraction is not yet enough. Despite the enormous quality of life that many of our interior regions have, of landscape charms, playful and gastronomic, however, the interior is not attractive enough, because it does not generate enough opportunities. It is true that there are regions where some activities in services, industry or tourism have dynamized areas, but none of this was enough to make the interior, as a whole, truly attractive and create opportunities. And even if there were more of these activities, they could hardly replace the opportunities that the agriculture sector creates, which is why it will never cease to be the great engine of the interior economy. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not new: without water there is no agriculture. That is why we welcome your Resolution Project No. 335 / XV / 1. in fact, by including clear references to the importance of water storage, the importance of irrigation and the momentum to be given to the National Regadios Programme, in particular with the construction of the Ocreza dam or the completion of the hydraulic circuit work in Reg Runs de Monsaraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u53	Many of the ideas of this draft resolution already included the draft of the Liberal Initiative that we wanted to drag into this debate, but this was not allowed. in this draft of the Liberal Initiative it was not only expected that I spoke about, but also: that the funds of the PDR ( Regional Development Programme ) and the PRR aimed at exactly the maintenance and modernization of public irrigation infrastructures were properly published and monitored; that there was a legal regime that provided for procedures for accounting and monitoring of water losses in public irrigation infrastructures; that the elaboration and urgent completion of regional water efficiency plans of the regions where water scarcity or risk of water scarcity is present, from the Alentejo, that we are waiting for years, and the West plan, which we will not be able to see, at least in my years of life; that these regional water efficiency plans are planned exactly how water losses will be mapped, and how the capacity of water storage will be increased, in dams or tanks, and that this can allow the regularization of water available throughout the year; that these regional plans of water efficiency will be created more and less watershed. All of this we would like to have discussed here today, but, as I said, we could not drag this project. For now, we will follow what the PSD proposes and, in due course, we will schedule the discussion of the remaining contributions on our part. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that drought is a huge scourge that affects our farmers, but it is not the greatest. The biggest drought is the lack of concrete actions by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u54	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, note that the President of the Amizade France-Portugal Group of the Senate of France, another Senator of France, accompanied by advisers, and also members of the French Embassy in Lisbon, are present in the Tribunal B. I would like to wish, on behalf of Parliament, a good stay and a good stay with Portugal. It's a pleasure for us to welcome you. [[General applause, stand up.]] We continue with our debate now having the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sónia Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Alentejo faces major challenges — drought, desertification and abandonment of the rural world. Over 10 years have passed over the approval of PROTA ( Regional Programme for the Management of the Alentejo Territory ) and everything has changed. We need appropriate spatial planning instruments and a water efficiency plan of the Alentejo, promised more than a year ago, and which, until today, has not seen the light of the day. We need a government to rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u57	How is it possible that, after five years of the overthrow of the old national road No. 255, where five people died in 2018, the State has not yet arranged a solution for the reconstruction of this road, perpetuating a wound of this community in the open sky? [[PSD applause.]] How can it be that, in the face of the successive droughts that continue to settle the Country and the Alentejo, the National Regadium Programme is not effectively a priority? How is it possible that the hydraulic circuit of Reg rounds of Monsaraz, announced and claimed as the first to be built within the program, has not so far seen the light of the day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u59	... while the then Minister of Agriculture and the President of the House, in all the media, announced it as the first to be built under the National Regadios Programme? Is the word honest? [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Farmers despair with water at the foot of their land, next to them, without being able to use it. Promised since 2015, announced in 2018 and voted in the Municipal Assembly of Reg Duras of Monsaraz, in 2020, by the socialists, urging their own government to fulfill the local promises, this has not happened until today. [[PSD applause.]] Of advertising, tendering, what is true is that farmers are waiting for promised water. Is the word honest? How is it possible that the rug of Arraiolos has been waiting for more than 20 years for its certification to promote an ancestral art? In this House, a law of the Republic has not been passed until today, entitled 'Promoting and valuing the carpet of Arraiolos'. Today, the carpet of Arraiolos continues to be marketed throughout the world as coming from Brazil and China, with certificate of authenticity. The carpet of Arraiolos is Portuguese, it's Alentejo and it's Arraiolos, it's nobody else! Let us take care of our heritage, please, of our identity. This House has a special responsibility. Évora will be European Capital of Culture in 2027, but at PRR level the council received €150 000 for culture. We have in Évora the largest Portuguese megalytic monument, and one of the largest in Europe, but it is abandoned. Neither the Ministry of Culture nor the municipality, so far, had the capacity to implement the urgent intervention plan. It's like this all over the Alentejo! How can the State ignore our cultural heritage? Territorial cohesion cannot be an empty concept, it must be a reality, and the State must fulfil it. The Alentejo requires the installation of a high-performance sports centre. There are 14 in the country and only one is located south of the Tejo, in the Algarve. Today, this Parliament has the opportunity and the obligation to correct these injustices. How is it possible he hasn't done it yet? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u60	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sónia Ramos, the PSD today brings concerns about the rural world. I want to tell you, Mrs. Member, that concerns are not enough. Action needs to be taken, and the PSD has had a lot of opportunity to solve the problems in agriculture you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u62	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u63	That's why amnesia is a fucked up problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u64	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u65	Do you want to talk about amnesia, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u66	I want to tell you that the PSD is proposing a set of measures today, many of which are almost the same as those presented by the PCP, but see, when the PCP presented them, the PSD voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u68	This is a concern that memory does not forget. We cannot forget, too, the one who was the role of the PSD while dismantling the Ministry of Agriculture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u69	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u70	What about the PCP when you ruled with management?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u71	... with nearly 10 000 jobs, in fundamental services for support to farmers, destroyed by the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u73	... the destruction of thousands of holdings, particularly small and medium-sized holdings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u74	What about the Agrarian Reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u75	... the common agricultural policy and successive reforms, which the PSD embraced and of which it also flagged. When the CFP presented proposals that valued, in particular, small and medium-sized agriculture, how did the PSD vote? He voted against the proposals presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u76	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u77	When the CFP presented proposals for modulation and ceilinging of aid and support, the PSD was also opposed. When the CFP proposed that the aid be linked to production, the PSD was also opposed, allowing farmers not even to produce a gram of food but to receive aid. But today, like the PS, which also has very great responsibilities, the PSD comes to talk as if it had no responsibilities. On PEPAC (Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy) — which is a chaos, and the Government has tremendous responsibilities — I would like to ask you how you see this chaos which is set up in the applications, which are complex, which is why farmers cannot apply. There is considerable delay, because the government has already admitted to delaying these applications. But what about the anticipation of the aid? Do you think they'll be conditioned or not? And what position does the PSD have with regard to the responses that the CFP has brought with regard to early support, to address the difficulties faced by farmers, in particular with regard to drought? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u78	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Sonia Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u79	Mr President, Mr João Dias, I would like to say that the PSD has a responsibility in fact: the great responsibility for taking the country out of bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] This was the responsibility of the PSD for three times, allowing the PS to catch in a country in order to arrive until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u80	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u81	That is our great responsibility, which will be historic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u82	At the time of the other lady, they also had the safes full and the people hungry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u83	With regard to responsibilities, I must remind you of the responsibilities you had when you supported a government and managed, in which you failed to implement any of the proposals you tried to contract with the PS, which from that point of view also failed to speak. So the responsibilities here are the PS. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, I hope that, with regard to what the CFP asks us about the anticipation of aid, it will also ask the PS what is the state of the public competition, for example, for the reg-running block of Monsaraz, which, over five years, we continue to wait for it to be a reality, because the incompetence in the launch of the competition and probably in the book of charges was at the origin of this delay. Therefore, the responsibilities are borne by the PS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u84	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u85	Mr President, Dear colleagues : This is no longer the first debate we have on this subject, and I welcome the PSD, as the Liberal Initiative had previously also put forward proposals in this regard. So let us discuss again the issue of decentralization and centralism in our country, historically recognized. Portugal was already an unbalanced country for centuries. And the truth is that having a more densely populated strip on the coast, especially on the north coast, from Setúbal to Braga — which, to be strict, goes to the Crown, because the Galician facade is also more populated — is one of the structural factors of the formation of this nationality. Probably otherwise, there was no country. To this centralism there is one thing to add: there has been a change in the country's productive structure, and the country has ceased to be a primary sector country to be a country in the service sector, which tend to focus more on cities that are already large. Therefore, we are not only discussing how to rebalance the country in terms of territorial cohesion, we are discussing the development model, and we are no longer going to reinvent a productive and social structure, which was delayed and from which we wanted to go as a whole. What bothers me is that sometimes we do this debate as if there was a disease in Lisbon, which is called centralism, and if, by chance, by miracle, it disappears, the country would become territorially balanced. That's not true. We all know that it is not true, or, to be true, then centralism is in all of us. Let me conclude by giving an example that does not cost money, which does not depend on things that divide us — such as regionalization, in which some are in favour and others against — and which still does not happen in this House: a national circle of compensation. It is not a highway, it is not a new hospital, but it says something to the people of the interior and districts with fewer people: « Your vote counts the same as the vote in Lisbon or Porto. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u86	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u87	Now, this neither the PS nor the PSD want me to go through the constitutional review now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u88	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u89	We must tell our citizens: "They are first citizens! Even if they are in Portalegre, vote in the party they want to vote. Your vote is not wasted. » As long as they don't, sorry, we're here having a very theoretical debate and, in practice, centralism is in each and every one of you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u90	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to welcome the debate we are having here. In recent months, we have discussed several times the problems and issues of territorial cohesion, the difficulties of the interior territories. And this, if, on the one hand, is important, because it gives visibility to the problems of these territories, on the other hand, is also the symptom of a vision and a model of development which, as has already been said, have decades of political and economic options that have always favored urban centers and tended to forget the rest of the territory. In another debate I said it, but it is important to repeat again: Portugal is indeed a very centralised country, it is also a very demographically very asymmetrical country—and, we already perceive, with a tendency to aggravate this asymmetry—, economically and socially very disparate, with a great propensity for the abandonment of certain territories, environmentally unbalanced. I believe that this diagnosis unites virtually all parties, but it is important that we go to what eventually does not unite us and that is the result of the debate. There are some choices and some data that we find important in this debate. First of all, a note on the PRR : last week, the President of the National Monitoring Commission of the PRR warned about constraints in the implementation of the PRR and also stressed that equitable financing of projects is quite far from the necessary regional cohesion. This is obviously a point that should be pointed out in this debate, because the Socialist Party speaks so much about the importance of the PRR, but what is already being verified is that it may not respond to the problems of territorial cohesion. Secondly, we have a problem with decentralization, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. On 2 March, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion stated that at the end of the Council of Ministers in Faro, I believe decentralization is the path to territorial cohesion. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must disagree at all of this because the experience of what has been done with the process of decentralization that is under way has only proved not only the error of principle of the process that has been made, but also that it is effectively deepening inequalities in the territory. Let's look at a few examples. We have more inequality with the process of decentralization when municipalities are not all on an equal footing for certain public services, or when financial packages do not reach the responsibilities that are being passed to municipalities—and we know the abissal differences that sometimes exist between territories of the interior and the coast as far as budgets are concerned. We are going to a case that, from our point of view, is central: health. The National Health Service must be, and must be, a public and universal service. However, he now runs the risk of being at the mercy of if I live in Montalegre, if I live in Lisbon, if I live in Faro, if I live in Leiria, and this cannot happen with the National Health Service. But this can also happen with education and social action, which are two other folders that have already suffered this process of decentralization. The process of decentralization that is under way is only having as a consequence the deepening of certain inequalities, which cause and go, finally, feeding this wheel of inequality between the various territories. When we talk about solving territorial cohesion problems, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, we cannot continue to have a process of decentralization which deepens inequalities in access to public services and, I repeat, as in the Constitution, universal. Therefore, access to these services cannot depend on the budget of the municipal chamber in a district like Bragança or in a district like Lisbon. You can't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! A third matter, and with it I conclude, has to do with the issue of mobility. Several times the Left Block has raised this matter in debates on territorial cohesion—we have been discussing several matters relating to railways for some time now—and, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing this issue. Members, mobility in our country indicates the total failure of territorial cohesion policies. We continue to have territories in the interior of the country, or even some less populated coastline, or perhaps more forgotten, by political option, which have no accessibility. We cannot continue to have district capitals where there is no railway.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u92	Not even a highway, how much more railway!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u93	We cannot depend on the people who live in these places where there is no railway, and who need to work and have to make pendulum movements, have to pay the ex-SCUTs (without cost to the user), for example, what has been a very big debate in the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, Mr President, we can have a number of draft recommendations, to which I will refer in a second speech, which try to overcome some of these difficulties and some of the specific themes of some regions, but we cannot do the debate on territorial cohesion and the response to the problem of inequalities in the territory without talking about mobility, without talking about public services and about the disaster that is the process of decentralization of competence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u94	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make it available on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u95	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, very quickly, I would like to help us to achieve better what you think about the results, which have been public and that we have seen in our field visits, this process of decentralization, which is supposed to be the cornerstone of the reform of the socialist state, better, of the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u97	I would also like you to clarify more clearly what we heard on Monday and Tuesday in the Algarve and who thinks it is access to health, especially in the interior populations. I would also like you to clarify to us, Madam Commissioner, those who are, in your opinion, the results of the territorial cohesion policy of this Government, more specifically, that you share with us the complaints that the presidents of the Algarve have made to us on Monday at the meeting of the CIM ( Intermunicipal Community) of the Algarve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u98	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u99	Mr President, Mr Luís Gomes, thank you for this. On the process of decentralization, and specifically on the area of health, the position of the Left Block has been very clear since the beginning. We have effectively opposed this process of decentralization, because we have warned, from the very beginning, of the difficulties that it would create, which I referred to in my speech. The process of decentralization, particularly in the area of health, is deepening inequalities. In fact, a lot of criticism by several autarchs—we heard this criticism at the beginning of this week, but it is made by a little by autarchs throughout the country—it is because they do not have the necessary means for the skills that are being assigned to them. In our case, we are against the passage of these powers, because the fact is that we cannot be doing so depends on municipalities that have very distinct municipal budgets and that cannot respond to the problem of access to health. As I said in my initial speech, access to health must be public and universal. We cannot accept a country where access to health depends on the parish or the municipality where it lives. We can't! And this is a fundamental mistake that is in the process of decentralization. What I would also like to say is that, despite the various criticisms made by the PSD, in particular the question of the financial package of the decentralization process, and because several authorships, particularly the PSD, have accepted these same competences, what is noted throughout the debate is that regionalisation ends up being in the drawer, by PS and PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u100	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia André has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « If the PS is government, I leave here the guarantee, with the permission of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, that we will continue to reduce the tolls and consider not its exemption, but its abolition. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u103	I have just quoted the candidate the PS deputy, and elected by Castelo Branco, Prof. Ana Abrunhosa, in January 2022. [[PSD applause.]] This candidate joined the same Government which in 2021 rejected the PSD proposal, as set out in the law, adopted by all parliamentary groups with the exception of the PS - which at the time had not yet had a majority - which implemented the reduction of 50 % of the SCUT tolls in the case of combustion vehicles and 75 % for electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u105	The implementation of this law amounted to only 30 % of discounts on these routes. With this small reduction, he found the government to have fulfilled what was democratically approved in the 2021 budget proposal in this House. [[PSD applause.]] At present, however, the Minister for Infrastructure has also referred to the SCU platform, which would ultimately do the favor of reducing the tolls by 20% this year. That is to say, I would complete the proposal we approved here in 2021 and move to 50 % discount on one case and 75 % on the other. But the worst of all is that, however, after January 2022 and these statements, by January 2023, the tolls had risen almost 5%.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u106	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u107	So, ladies and gentlemen, it is very nice to see the government walk through the territory of the interior, pleading for various cohesion measures, but I want to leave this question to everyone: when are people and businesses from the interior, where there are no rail transports, neither road transports, nor interurbans, will they actually feel the reduction of the tolls on their wallets? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u108	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and to make it available on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Brito has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cláudia André, leaving aside this last statement and also draft resolution No 359 / XV / 1. she left him a question about accessibility within the country: how would they do it? How would they, of course, do this project presented, which derives from this last intervention? How would they do it in relation to the interior? It is that part of the interior is not in any way covered by your motion for a resolution. We are talking about structural accessibility of an interior—which is coastal, but is as interior—such as that of the IC33 corridor ( supplementary route 33 ) Odemira-Sines-Santiago do Cacem, or on the other hand, of district capitals that still do not enjoy this accessibility with self-road trend, such as Portalegre and Beja. Or also, how to do with the Sines-Beja connection between A26 ( motorway No 26 ) and IP8 ( main route No 8 )? [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] It was random to say that even to ask is useful. So I ask: how would they do this draft resolution? [[PSD protests.]] In fact, I would invite them, precisely, to withdraw this draft resolution, because it does not cover the needs of the interior. But on the other hand, how would they do that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u110	You have to look to the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u111	Last time they were government, as would a Minister for Regional Development such as Poiares Maduro, who put accessibility as a negative priority and put the label in the negotiations of the Community framework Portugal 2020 that the country had more infrastructure? In fact, the model invoked was that of Ireland, because we had more infrastructures. All of us, and many of those there, had other functions in the sad years 2014, 2015 and 2016, in which the entry of the first warning of Portugal 2020 took place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u112	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u113	Many remember precisely the martyrdom that has been — for many of us, for others — to apply Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u114	They took the Portuguese to bankruptcy, that's what it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u115	In addition, in Portugal 2030, the partnership agreement already concluded had the first notice : EUR 400 million for tourism and, of these, EUR 200 million are precisely for the Tourism Agenda for the Interior. It's an important warning for this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I leave another question: how would they do it? Would they make a difference? Because what is happening is, indeed, political decision, often reversed, about a previous Secretary of State of bad memory, that you too remember — Sérgio Monteiro, Secretary of State of Infrastructure — which has broken so many PPP commitments (public-private partnerships) and has abolished so many works already under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u116	TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) is that everyone remembers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u117	The IP2 ( main route No 2 ), from Évora to Beja, from Beja to Castro Verde, how did it go? [[PSD protests.]] That was a vision, it was not an obligation of the troika. They were beyond the troika's obligations with this vision that shaped for the country. So how would they, with political decision taken and financial instruments from the PRR and Portugal 2030 for a series of ongoing works? How would they do that? Oh, my God! I tell you the answer: they would not, which is what they do when they are in government, in relation to the inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u118	Ask the question and give the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u119	In reply, Mrs Cláudia André has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u120	He's already answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u121	Mr President, Mr Nelson Brito, I now understand why your execution rates are so low. [[PSD applause.]] It's just, at the end of eight years, they still need some PSD advice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u122	Four years to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u123	at the end of eight years, almost still asks the PSD « how would you do it? "! At the end of eight years, how would we do that? Oh, my God! Do you still need our advice? We got it! [[PSD applause.]] We shall give the advice, in due course, Mr. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u124	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that it is a bit limited that we have this debate today without the PSD allowing other initiatives to join this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u126	It's the compressor roll!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u127	This limits those who want to make different and present different proposals. But regardless of this limitation, which shows the limitations of the Party itself which presents the initiatives, we have a serious cohesion problem. The problem is that 45% of our population lives in the big cities of the country, in Lisbon and in Porto, in the metropolitan area; and 58% of the wealth is produced in the coastal range. This two-speed country has been responsible for PSD governments and, recently, PS governments. Hearing the Socialist Party throw blame on the troika or on what happened eight years ago, seven years ago or five years ago, when they are government seven years ago and not to increase the gap between the interior and the coast, is of enormous political irresponsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u128	At that time you were there at the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u129	Closed health services, promises of abolishing tolls that were not met, the PS speaking of PPPs abolished—when they put an end to the health of PPPs like that of the Braga Hospital— this should embarrass the Socialist Party's bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u130	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u131	But I am sorry to say to you, Mr John Dias, that when you say that the PSD comes here to speak as if you had no responsibilities, it is true — it comes as if you had no responsibilities, but you also have responsibilities and your parliamentary group also has responsibilities, just as the Left Block also has responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u132	Maybe they voted more times next to the PS than we did!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u133	The only irresponsible ones here are from arrive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u134	You want to make up the responsibility of seven, six or five approved budgets alongside the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, everyone, I repeat, all have responsibilities in the state to which the country arrived in the interior. The honourable Member will excuse me, but the CFP always has this strategy that the right cannot be, because it would make it worse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u135	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u136	...and conceals your own responsibility by supporting the PS Budgets. But I have some bad news for you, Mr. Member, is that the PS no longer wants anything with you and you are the ones who do not seem to realize that the PS no longer wants anything with you! Look, it's like that song of our friend! [[CH's laughs.]] It is like that song of our friend Luís Gomes, who says: « Don’t let our love die, take me with you. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH's laughs.]] It's true, it's true! [[Laughs and applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u137	The PSD is that he doesn't want anything with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u138	You guys are on your knees asking to date the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u139	The PCP has this thing: he does not want to let the love that, for a while, he had with the PS. But, sir, it's over! Relationships end, life is like this! [[CH's laughs.]] Mr President, what I would advise you is to do your psychoanalysis, look forward, overcome the relationship and do us a favor, stop throwing sand at our eyes. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u140	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Norberto Patinho now speaks. As long as the honourable Member goes up the stairs to the rostrum, I would like to remind the House that it is very likely that we will have voting for 17 hours. It is therefore appropriate to mobilise voters. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regadio has been one of the most positive answers in the struggle waged by territorial cohesion and the development of the interior, creating conditions for setting people and ensuring a new vitality and sustainable prosperity. It was based on these assumptions that the Socialist Party advanced with the National Regadios Programme, which, with funding from the PDR 2020 and the PRR, has 338 projects in public regadium, on an investment of 811 million euros, covering the 18 districts and 120 municipalities of the continent. The Socialist Party is proud of the decisive contributions to the expansion, modernization and rehabilitation of the irrigation systems responsible for the revolution we have witnessed in recent years. It was the Socialist Party that, when it arrived to the government, decided to extend the water perimeter of the Alqueva, whose project had been completed by the previous government, and obtained financial means to implement this decision. Only in this way was it possible to move forward with the new water blocks, as is the case in Reg rounds of Monsaraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u142	Oh, my lord!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u143	The PSD/CDS government gave the project of Alqueva by completion, so there would be no reg running blocks of Monsaraz, nor any of those that became possible with the extension of the water perimeter. While he nurtured hopes and promised farmers and landowners, he did not prepare or secure funds in the current Community framework for their implementation. In the RDP 2020, negotiated by the right-wing government of EUR 4 billion and EUR 1 cent was reserved for Alqueva, and in the Regional Operational Programme nothing was destined for the expansion of the water network. It was in 2016, with the Socialist Government, that the implementation project and the environmental impact study of the respective hydraulic circuit began. [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] It is therefore surprising, or perhaps not, that we find that the draft resolution that the PSD presents to us recommends the realization of the hydraulic circuit of Reg rounds of Monsaraz, when we hoped that they would come today to apologize to the reguenses for having forgotten them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u144	You guys have to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u145	With obvious political opportunism, the more we seem to be on an electoral campaign, they now want to make believe that this draft resolution will make the work progress. Don't! The work of Reg Duros de Monsaraz's hydraulic circuit will move forward because this was a decision of the Government of the Socialist Party, which provided EDIA (the Alqueva Development and Infrastructure Company, SA) with the financial means for this to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u146	Tell me when!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u147	The case is no longer advanced because EDIA is awaiting the court's decision on the lifting of the suspensive effect resulting from the action brought by a competitor to the undertaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u148	The accounts are political, they're not judicial!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u149	But, as happened with Reg next to Monsaraz, they also forgot the water block of Cuba-Odivelas, the block of Évora, the block of Viana do Alentejo, the connection to Morgavel and the elevation station of the Alamos, whose works are already completed. The proposals for the construction of the hydraulic circuit connecting to Albufeira do Monte da Rocha and the Messejana water block will be opened next June 19. Moving forward are also the blocks of Vidigueira and Moura, which were also forgotten in the draft resolution now presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, and there is no reference to the agricultural use project of Crato, Pission Dam, where the Socialist Party Government has taken the decision to move forward, allocating money from the PRR for this purpose? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Regadios Programme is, for the Government of the Socialist Party, a priority and will provide the interior with an absolutely fundamental tool to combat inequalities in the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, the Anta Grande do Zambujeiro is the largest megalytic monument in Portugal, one of the largest of the Iberian Peninsula and of all Europe. It is owned by private persons and has been lacking in intervention for many years. The proposals now presented are no more than the decisions already made by the Ministry of Culture, through their decentralised services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u151	In view of the fact that heritage plays a key role in building a more sustainable, more coherent and more resilient country, the government has made it possible in recent years to make very important investments in the region. It happened thus with the fortifications of Campo Maior ; with the castle of Castelo de Vide ; with the House of Cante, in Serpa ; with the Churches of the Holy Spirit, S. Brás and Santo Antão, in Évora ; with the Churches of Saint John the Baptist and Saint Alex of Restoration, in Moura ; with the Convent of St. Bento de Cástris ; with the Queen Museum Dona Leonor, in Beja ; with the walls of Juromenha ; with the Sanctuary of Our Lady D’ Aires, in Viana do Alentejo ; or with the structural restoration and consolidation of the Convent of Salvation, in Montemor-o-Novo. It was investments of many million euros, and it was good to recognize it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u152	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u153	The carpets of Arraiolos are undoubtedly of the richest pieces of the Alentejo craftsmanship, and their qualification and certification is of great importance for the defense of their genuineness, for their protection and valorization on the national and international market, defending them from unfair competition. There is legislation regulating this process, which should be based on local producers and authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u154	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u155	This legislation was, by sign, approved and published in 2015 — see there! — by a PSD Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u156	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u157	That's right! Precipitation of the proposal did not allow a more accurate analysis of the legislation and the finding of a more consistent path to achieve the stated objectives. Precipitated, without preparation, without groundwork, without articulation with local and populist actors is the recommendation for the creation of a high-performance center in the district of Évora.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u158	It must be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u159	Is it really a high-performance sports center they want? Where in the district? Are there any land already? And the project? For what modalities? With what federations? What high-competitive athletes do you want? Who's the promoter? Who is the managing entity? [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were hoping for more than one party that is intended to take as an alternative to the current government. They cannot count on us to approve the demagogic form of these proposals. One final note: in this package of projects, especially in health, there is no reference to the Central Hospital of Alentejo. After years to announce the arrival of the devil and playful comments on the advancement of the work, so that they now believe in its realization. As happened with the Barrage de Alqueva, with the regadio and with all the great works of the Alentejo, also with the Central Hospital of Alentejo it is confirmed that, with the PS in the government, the Alentejo advances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u160	Uh! Any day begins to advance and comes to the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u161	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I assume you're responding together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u162	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u163	To make the first request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sónia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u164	Mr President, Mr Norberto Patinho, you have a lot of words, you have a lot of talk, you talk a lot, you talk a lot, but proposals are dragged into this debate, zero! [[PSD applause.]] As for some of the things you said here, when you accuse us of being populist, zero, you didn't do anything! As for the carpet of Arraiolos, there is a law of the Republic that overlaps with a decree-law. As for Anta Grande do Zambujeiro, there is a door that has not been met. As for the reg running row block of Monsaraz, where is it made? Question for 'yes' or 'no' : is it built, has it started? Do you recognize the people who are here, sir? The speaker showed a picture. Tell me, is the Reg along circuit of Monsaraz built, or isn't it? That's what's at stake here. No one told you anything more about the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u166	I want you to answer, are you, or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u167	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Norberto Patinho, the problem of farmers is not only solved by advertisements. And judging by what happened last year with regard to aid and support for drought, I have to tell you that the experience has been ruinous and disastrous. In 2022, in the face of war and sanctions, they turned support into support for drought—it is a recycling machine that the government has. Even it's a rather slow recycler, because payments only came in 2023. this year, judging by what they did last year, they will turn support for combating inflation into support for drought! Now, this is a very big concern, given that even small farmers, see there, Mr Deputies, will receive 50 €. It is a fortune for farmers to cope with the increase in production costs! This, taking into account that the drought itself expands the costs of production factors! So, what answers do you have? This is not to talk about the regadio issues, which are still under design, often the competition, but without cabimentation. But, ready, let's go to other questions. The money is not enough, but as far as water blocks are concerned, can you assume here that Vidigueira's water blocks are going to be realized?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u169	Go! Go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u170	That the water block of Moura, in Safara, will be realized?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u171	Go! Go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u172	What size is expected? And the water block of Vila Nova de São Bento?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u173	Go! Go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u174	How are you, Mr. Deputy? Are they just ads, or are we going to see them actually realized on the ground? [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u175	To reply, Mr Norberto Patinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u176	Mr. President, Mrs. Sonia Ramos... [[Where is he?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u177	He's not here anymore? Oh, my God! There is some inexperience in these things of the authorities, of the Executive, because he does not understand, of course, how can a court decision be possible to delay a tendering process. Anyway, I'd like to respond to Mrs. Deputy's eyes, but she doesn't seem to be here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u178	How unpleasant!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u179	Maybe it was consciousness. Maybe, he's assuming consciousness for all of you. Mr. João Dias, I wonder if the Socialist Party can prove, if it can confirm, and the Socialist Party has only one way to present the answer: we have done work. We have the lock of Cuba and Odivelas completed, the block of Évora, the block of Viana do Alentejo, the connection to Morgavel, the elevation station of the Alamos, which is very important for the process to work! It is because the previous government didn't realize that there was a need for bombing to ensure that this whole circuit worked. That is why I think, and you know, that we have a relevant work done and that can only aspire to the Vidigueira and to those who are missing, like Moura, because the Socialist Party is in government and will fulfill it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u180	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Guilherme Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In almost 50 years of democracy and 38 since accession to the European Economic Community, Portugal has not been able to improve the competitiveness of the interior territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u183	The difficulties of accessing digital networks are widening the gap with coastal regions. The lack of rail and road accessibility is increasing asymmetries in low-density territories. Investments in road infrastructure will continue without funding in Portugal 2030. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u184	The Government continues to delay public investment with the policy of captivating. The degradation and lack of road safety continue to be the main demand of the highways. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the re-qualification of IP3 in highway profile is being postponed since 2005!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u185	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u186	We have more infrastructure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u187	We still remember the ceremonies held in Viseu and Coimbra for the launch of the Centre’s Autostradas concession. [[PSD applause.]] And from the collapse of the plaque in the Mortagua Chamber, on 29 March 2008 by Mr. Eng.o José Socrates, to mark the efemeride. [[PSD applause.]] And we also recall Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, when he launched the competitions for the IP3 requalification works on 2 July 2018, which he intended to conclude in the first half of 2024 :...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u188	Sérgio Monteiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u189	..."When we are deciding to do this work, we are deciding not to make changes in careers or salaries. Do not keep on seeking. ” But, in a socialist way, five years later, nor requalification of IP3, nor time of service for teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u190	The teachers continue their struggle and the Portuguese continue to die on IP3. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u191	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has chosen today to come to play alone, not allowing other political forces to bring a differentive view to this debate, with other proposals. You'd rather be proud of yourself. But we do not stop focusing on the serious problem that Portugal faces, related to the concentration of populations in the coastal cities and the increasing desertification of the interior regions. In fact, it's not a problem right now, it's not an exclusive problem in our country, nor is it something we're going to be able to get stuck right away. But what the PSD is proposing today is, in fact, very little. And more: it is in some way out of line with that which has been the PSD route, particularly when it was government. Looking at the measures they bring here and with which they wish, in some way, to remedy the problem, these have no vision of the future, do not take into account the climate emergency scenario. In fact, they bring us a proposal for recreation, forgetting the environmental impact assessment. There is no word on that, when we know that much of the interior is threatened by extreme drought and desertification, which seems to us to be absolutely irresponsible. Moreover, we have not seen a word in the PSD proposals to restore and return to the populations the services that were stung to them at the time of the Coelho Pass government in areas such as health, schools, mail, fregetal boards, finance, GNR posts, courts, social security, among so many others with which we could exemplify. But we already know that at the time the young people were sent to emigrate, perhaps now they are sending the populations back inside. Returning what has been withdrawn to the inside is, in fact, necessary, and it is a strategy that needs to be aligned with the future, but, above all, with the climate and social emergency that exists, revitalizing these territories through green policies and the transition to more sustainable life models. There are proposals from the PSD that we will not be able to follow, like that from the regadio, but we hope that, for the next debate, there will also be greater openness than has been shown here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u193	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a certain point, I was reluctant and almost with a feeling of tenderness towards how the Socialist Party puts this issue of territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u195	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u196	We could talk about the question of decentralization, the question of PROT ( Regional Land Management Plans ), but I was listening to the debate, during this time about one hour, and I realized that there are things you do not really know about. I have heard Mr Luís Graza talk about situations, and some will leave for Mr Pedro Pinto because, in a year and a little bit of legislation, Mr Pedro Pinto has already put forward more proposals by Alentejo and the Algarve than the Socialist Party in the past 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u197	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u198	As for what you've done... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u199	Sir, I apologize for interrupting you. I ask the Socialist Party's bench to be economical in the distances it makes. Yesterday, at the Conference of Leaders, we all readily reached agreement on the separate parts that could not be a constant, continuous interruption of the speaker who is in the use of the word. Whoever you are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u201	Mr. Deputies, I beg your pardon, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. « We bring the debate a question, which is the local housing strategy, because we have implemented the local housing strategy », said the PS, and I thought: this is a good time to talk about it. at a time when the interior is deserted, the PS came to talk about the local housing strategy. I went to study the subject over the past few weeks in relation to what the PS has done in the local housing strategy, and we realize that in the question of 1. the law, they made an agreement with more than 200 municipal chambers in which they transferred money to these municipal chambers — no matter how much! — without prior notice of the Court of Auditors. It goes without the municipal assemblies and the municipal chambers validating the contracts binding on loans.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u203	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u204	As if it did not come, we went to see what was going on there and we concluded that, with the PRR money, what happened was housing controlled costs done with cooperatives. Co-operatives who, less than a year later, failed and the debt remained in the General Deposit Box, having been bought by real estate funds based in Luxembourg, which resold it to two other real estate funds and then sold it to the municipalities, with a further value of 82 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u205	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u206	... after sending letters to the owners and tenants who are in the houses saying: «or you buy for the money we want or are placed in the eye of the street». All of this for a simple reason: in this case these people would be under programme 1. o Law. in this political jigajoga we went to see exactly what happened, and I'm going to say it's surprising. It is surprising that in 2019, when this business began with the State, one of the funds presented as a buyer gave 13 € of injury; in 2020, 463 € of injury; in 2021, 67 million profit...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u207	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u208	...and the purchase of 300 million euros in real estate. The most surprising thing is to look at and realize that, according to the financial report, this company has no costs with staff. My lords, the interior needs seriousness. As for these business—using the expression yesterday, by Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who is not here, who said that when the right one speaks what we heard, at home, is cuts of pensions, cuts of this, cuts of that, I would say, when the PS speaks, what people hear at home is: bla-blah-blah, Whiskas sachets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u210	I'll tell you something, about this that's here in my hand,... The speaker displayed a document. ... as Mr President of the Republic says, 'investigate', because this is very serious. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u211	Mr Luís Gomes asked for the floor, I assume to make a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u212	Mr President, it is not to make any request for clarification, I apologize. I just wanted to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work. If I may, I would like to explain two topics. in the first issue — because I have heard some banks say that no trawling has been allowed — I wanted to say that the instructions we gave to DAPLEN (Plenary Support Division) were in the sense that we allowed trawling and, therefore, there will be any misunderstanding that needs to be clarified. With regard to the speech of Mr Bruno Nunes of the Czech Republic, I would like to request that this documentation be distributed to all banks through the Bureau. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u213	Mr Bruno Nunes also wishes to make an inquiry to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u214	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u215	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u216	Mr President, in an appeal to the Bureau, given the relevance of the matter, I believe that the document should obviously be distributed throughout the House. It will send the document to the Bureau immediately and preferably also to journalists. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u217	Mr President, we thank you, but the Bureau only governs what is happening here at this plenary session. As for the first question put by Mr Luís Gomes, I do not want my memory to appeal to me, but I think that at the Leaders Conference it was reported by the PSD that it would accept drags. In any case, we are going to inform ourselves and, until the end of the session, we will communicate. To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Plata now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme that brings me here is the Douro Line, which crosses the districts of Guarda, Vila Real and Porto, also connecting Spain. It was built in only 12 years, at the end of the 19th century. In the 20th century, in 1984, the Spanish government cut a piece of the railway section to turn it into a pedavia. In 1988, on the Portuguese side, the section between Pocinho and Barca de Alva was also disabled in the Guard district, a total of 28 km. The Douro Line has in fact known major works in the 20th century, but only and only between Porto and Marco de Canaveses. In the 21st century, it is still to electrify the section between Marco de Canaveses and Barca de Alva, as well as to reactivate the 28 km recently mentioned. Many promises were made in election campaigns in the 20th century and also in the 21st century. Governments of those centuries took oaths in those territories. A record of waiting that compares with the 12 years of construction of the 200 km of the Douro Line. [[PSD applause.]] Technical studies have been developed that enabled the political decision to move forward with the construction of the missing line. We know — until the last communiqué of the CIMDOURO ( Inter-Municipal Douro Community) — of impatience and discomfort with long-awaited expectations. Now, this expectation and even mistrust have been extended with Portaria No 177 / 2023 of 18 April, which, by giving an answer, recognises itself, kicks — and I am sorry to say that, Mr President! — and ends in 2029 the financial schedule for the preparation of the project of execution and previous study. Only after that can the competition be opened for the completion of the work. Let us pass, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen — that is my word! — because, in 2035 or 2040, we will have the full reactivation of the Douro Line. We appreciated devotion to the interior by all of us and the government, but we did not expect the government as little or as little in the time of the last word. The PSD proposal for this debate and for the vote is clear and objective. The region needs the deadlines to be cut in two years, or even less time, and the studies and the project are ready, making the money available, as the government has done in other works already in this 21st century. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u219	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today gathered to debate again the state of the interior and the territories of low density. In order to value the country, the interior and these territories, the Liberal Initiative has all for an exchange of ideas and political views of what we want within the country, in a genuine exercise of democratic debate. Therefore, we congratulate the PSD for realizing the importance of discussing the issue of the interior, so ignored by the compressor roll of the socialist majority, who still voted against the bills presented by the Liberal Initiative a few weeks ago, perpetuating the compressor roll of centralism and the abandonment of low density territories. The compressor roll of centralism, which so suffocates and suffocates all the districts of the country, with the exception of Lisbon. The numbers do not leave room for doubt. Portugal is one of the most centralist countries of the European Union and the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). We see that in Portugal only 12 % of public expenditure occurs at local level, while the European Union average is 33 %. In our country, public employment in local administration is around 18% of all employees of the Public Administration, which contrasts with 70% to 75% of several European countries. As a percentage of GDP ( gross domestic product ), the share of public expenditure incurred at local level is only 5 %, 6 % when the European Union average is 15.5 %. Compared with similar countries, Portugal is of the few without an intermediate level of governance between the central state and local authorities. The idea that it will be the Assembly of the Republic to solve the problems of the interior territories is — as we saw last week, when this House dealt with a problem relating to the High-Mine Waters — at least paradigmatic of the understanding of the territory and the political autonomy of the local authorities. In fact, there is so little serious parliamentary debate on the political model we want for the country, which, after 50 years of democracy, has proved unable to reverse the direction of a historically centralist and centralized country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u222	The Liberal Initiative knows and believes that it is possible to have another view of the country, which does not subsidize or protect the territories of the interior, but creates conditions for freeing them from the ties of centralism. That is why we insist here on discussing the issue of decentralization and dedicated a plenary session to discuss, exclusively, the centralism of the Public Administration. Portugal is — as a result of various reasons, whether political, historical or cultural — a country that has never known a truly decentralized government. We recognize that there is no closed model to decentralise the country. from left to right, from north to south, there are differences, but it depends only on all of us inverting the paradigm of centralism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I was elected by the electoral circle of Porto, which has been strongly penalized by friendly policies of centralism. According to the 2021 censuses, this district lost more than 31 000 inhabitants in the last decade, in 13 of 18 municipalities, especially in Baião, Marco de Canaveses and Amarante. This is for various reasons linked to the lack of investment in the interior, to the waste of resources and to the contempt of political power by the rural world, accentuating existing asymmetries, contrary to what the government proclaims. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it justified for the central government to draw up regional planning plans for the territory? Is this the task that we want to assign to the central government, and not to the politically legitimate bodies in those territories?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u223	Do you or do you not defend regionalization? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, more important than the consensus for a debate on decentralization, do you know what is needed to value the interior? Political will! Political will is needed to abdicate the concentration of power in capital; political will to transfer part of the central State's public expenditure to local power; political will to decentralise, delocalize and deconcentrate. And do you know what more is needed than the political will? It takes courage. Courage not to fear the decisions of the Portuguese; courage to reform Portugal and put an end, without further delay, to the gap that separates the coast from the interior; courage not to resign ourselves to endemic poverty, territorial inequalities and economic stagnation. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u225	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I believe that, listening to what we have already heard, it is worth recalling that the PSD has allocated this debate to transport within the plenary a feeling that is obvious. Is it the feeling of millions of Portuguese in the country outside, who look at the health center that already exists and ask « but there is no money for doctors? » ; who look at the road, which sometimes the lines have not painted, and ask « is there no money to compose this? » ; that they look at the wireless phone, to companies without the Internet, to cities without digital connections and ask « is there no money to put here an antenna? ; what do they ask « Am I asking too much? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, we have marked this debate to tell these people that they are not, they are not asking too much, the PS is making them miss. The government is doing much less than I should! [[PSD applause.]] And why? They began the government to blow up the millions they had and the millions they didn't have, in ideological advances of the extreme left, and now they still do worse with the absolute majority. In the absolute majority, they have made billions, as they have already remembered, and what have they done from the European funds, from the PRR, from taxes that have charged the most, with inflation, to the Portuguese? They sat in that pile of money, laid the stack of money, and sat on it. They don't run, they don't meet goals, they hammer the reports, they do all this and the money doesn't show up. It doesn't show up anywhere! [[PSD applause.]] So what do we want from the PS? Finally, the PS Parliamentary Group has two options: either it approves the PSD recommendations and gives a signal to its government that it has to work, because that is why it was elected — and that is what it does not do! — or, then, lead the proposal and attach your majority to an incompetent government, which has so much difficulty in working as I have to make calls in the district for which I am elected. It's choice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u227	I could talk to the President to solve it, but don't solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u228	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Gomes: The honourable Member sings well, but does not rejoice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u230	Don't you? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u231	No, no, no. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u232	In our visit to the Algarve in the last two days, there was not a single camera president who had called into question the ongoing process of decentralization. There wasn't one. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u233	But I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u234	I said, Mr. Deputies, I said a little ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u235	I didn't say, no! I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u236	Mr President, including the President of the City Council of Portimão, Dr. Isilda Gomes, said expressly at the lunch we had and at which Mr was, that all the monitoring committees were working regularly and monitoring the decentralization processes. So I don't understand your speech. The policy must be responsible, stable, predictable, transparent and respectful of the public interest in the service of the common good. And that is how the Government has guided its action in the policy of land planning, working to promote greater social cohesion between the coast and the interior. The PS, knowing the reality of the territories, and I am particularly referring to the Algarve, will do everything to overcome the impediments to access to housing at controlled prices and compatible with the standard of living of the Portuguese, both in the lease and in the acquisition, both on the inside and on the coast. This is the first priority of the Government and we are doing so in this House with all parliamentary groups under the More Housing programme. The policy of planning the territory is a watermark of political principles that cement the development strategy that is not compatible with sudden, discretionary and non-supported proposals in a solid legal building. The Government, by resolution of the Council of Ministers published on 3 May, decided to amend the said PROT,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u237	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u238	... fixing the period of 24 months. The parliamentary group, aware of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers of 20 April, came on 2 May to propose what had already been decided, but did more : it added the suspension of the legal deadline for the review of the municipal directors' plans in progress for two and a half years, until the end of 2025. We know, however, that the PSD position is now against regionalization and that it has prevented constitutional review in this area. For this reason, I would ask the PSD to clarify, with the presentation of this recommendation, whether it is against regionalization, because, with the innovation of its draft recommendation, it intends to regionalize the law of soils. Should it not be the opposite, first do regionalization and then regionalize policies? What is the underlying interest? Let's hope it's not the maintenance of real estate speculation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u239	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make it available on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u240	Mr President, Mrs. Isabel Guerreiro, thank you very much for mentioning my person, and I would like to give you a note of one thing: Mrs. Deputies, of course for some forgetfulness that comes from there regarding the commitments that you yourself, as a member of the Algarve list, went through the region, forgot to say when the works of your land began,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u242	... requalification of the commercial port of Portimão. When do the works of the deforestation of the Arade River begin, as did the President of the City Council of Silves well-claimed? When is the Regional Planning Programme of the Territory finally revised, which has been so long — now, the government has finally said that it will review — are you going to review? And, Madam Member, why did you vote against the replacement of what was voted in this House, which was that the Way of the Child and the other SCUTs had a 50% reduction? Why did you vote against it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u243	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u244	You see how well she sings!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u245	Mr President, honourable Member, sings, sings, but is not yet startled. [[PS laughter.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u246	It's not funny anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u247	But love!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u248	No, no, no. Tell me just one thing, Mr President: are you referring to the works that the PSD has launched, announced and not implemented? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u249	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD presents draft resolution No 185 / XV / 1. the, which recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions by investing in improving health conditions in these territories. The National Health Service has revealed its weaknesses, in particular: the lack of timely access to it; the lack of access to adequate and quality primary health care — about 1 million and 700 thousand Portuguese does not have a family doctor —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u252	... the closure of emergency services; the increase in waiting times in urgency, which is inhuman;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u254	... the closure of health centre extensions or USF poles ( family health units) since 2020, obliging thousands of people to hardship and unnecessary travel;... [[PSD applause.]] ... and the lack of adequate territorial coverage of emergency and resuscitation medical vehicles, with appropriate medical equipment and nurses. Still this week, we met with the mayors of the Algarve and walked through their interior territories. Yeah, because the Algarve isn't just sun and sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u256	For example, in Monchique or in the parish of Cachopo, in Tavira, there is a lack of medical emergency transport. We're talking about two hours of waiting and travel time to the Faro Hospital, time that makes the difference between life and death. Is this the health service that they defend for the Portuguese, who have the greatest tax burden of all time and when the inhabitants of the interior are abandoned? Yesterday, we heard a PS Member say, and I quote: « These are our choices, and we choose to serve Portugal». But not the Portuguese, I say, because for the PS people are not at the heart of political decisions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u257	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing the exploitation of the interior in this debate today. This is the subject which the PSD has agreed to attribute to this debate. It brings up a number of proposals, but they are partial proposals. We're talking about the same PSD that, when you were in the government, you disinvested. There were a number of projects that were not implemented, that were placed in the drawer and that continue to be realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u259	Oh, oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u260	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u261	This is the responsibility of the PSD and CDS. The PSD today seeks, with this debate, to make a whitening of those that were its options: options for closing public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u262	Eight years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u263	... we remind ourselves of schools, and options for the withdrawal of trains from populations. They are here today talking about rail, but there were a number of connections and services that ended during the PSD government and the CDS. Indeed, they have not yet been restored and much lack continues to do to the populations. [[PSD protests.]] The parish went out. The populations are already abandoned, because they have closed health centres, closed schools, GNR posts, post stations and post posts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u265	Even the parish—many of the people referred to this—were closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u266	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u267	And in fact, these are the political options that have the brand of the PSD and CDS and which have the brand of the Socialist Party as well, because it has not solved the problems and only contributes to their worsening. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] The truth is that they are responsible for the abandonment of the interior by populations, many and many families. They are also responsible for the lack of a dynamisation of support economic activity, in particular of supporting the resources and wealth of the various territories. And the truth is, we can also talk about justice and culture. the courts were removed from competences, they invested in culture, heritage, in support of the arts. This is the brand and what they left in the territories. I would also like to ask other questions here, which deal with the following: today, the issue of tolls has been addressed here. We have already brought, in this Parliament — in fact, it was not only in this Parliament, it was at various times — proposals to abolish the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u268	So are we! PSD too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u269	To abolish? Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u270	Which way was the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u271	Do PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u272	It was not with the populations who claimed the end of the tolls. It was not with the regions that demanded the end of the tolls. They were against the population by rejecting these proposals from the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u273	They voted with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u274	But we can also address another issue that brought the debate here, which is related to communications and the lack of coverage in our territories. In many and many localities today, it is not possible to make the connection via communications. But who agreed to the liberalisation of the sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u275	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u276	Who was it? Who agreed that it would end and not want public operators in the communications sector? They are also aspects that the PCP has come to propose and that have systematically deserved the opposition by the PS and also the PSD. With regard to regional spatial planning programmes, I would like to put here a very specific question, because I remember the discussion that was held, giving this example: when the review of the PROT of the Lisbon and Tejo Valley area, it was planned to include a set of fundamental investments for the development of the region and for the development of our country and this review was carried out by the PSD. Today, they bring a project for this review to continue, but the truth is that, after more than 10 years, the PSD, when it was in government, was responsible for this review, which contained structural investments for the development of our country, such as the third crossing of the Tagus and how the construction of the airport at the Alcochete Shooting Camp, which was carried out, because of the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. We are actually dealing with the proposals here, which are limited and restrictive, which do not have a comprehensive view of investment needs in our country. But there is one issue that does not address and is a fundamental issue, which is the creation of the administrative regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u279	This is a strategic issue for the development of our country and for the development of regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u280	Nobody has anything to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u281	And where are the PS and PSD, for these matters, that are structural and that actually allow development? The question is not competitiveness between the territories. The question is the fulfilment of our Constitution, but a political option that effectively enables the creation of employment, to value public services, to use quality employment, with rights and quality of life, so that people are able to develop their lives throughout our territory, including in the interior regions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u282	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and can no longer answer for lack of time. To make the request for clarification, Mr. João Barbosa de Melo, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u283	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, in democracies, the parties, when they are in opposition, do not rule, but Portugal must be the only democracy in which the government does not like to govern either. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u284	She must be the only one in the world! This makes a problem, which was almost fun, if it wasn't tragic. The problem is that the CFP has helped this government to be as it is today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u285	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u286	Don't you regret that, Mrs. Member? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u287	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u288	Mr President, at the end of this debate, we have seen that today the Algarve and the Alentejo have come forward on the bench of the Socialist Party. Normally, they are well behind, but today, in this debate, they have come forward. Music here, music there, what we can get from the sum of this debate is zero. The PSD proposals are important, we will monitor and enable all the proposals, but much is missing. And a lot is missing because the PSD and the Socialist Party have ruled for these 49 years and are complicit in the desertification that has been in our country and, in particular, in the interior. We have heard here that the country is forgotten, by abandonment, it is true, but it has been forgotten by successive governments of the PSD and the governments of the Socialist Party. It was not now, in three, four, five years, that the interior of the country has been forgotten; we are talking about decades of forgetfulness, and that is why we have to work and that is what we have to oppose. Then, on the closure of services, which has already been mentioned here too, contrary to what Mrs Paula Santos said, she spoke on the closure of courts, primary schools, health centres, who accused the PSD and, at the time, the CDS of having closed all this, is true; it is true, but with the complicity of the Socialist Party. We cannot forget that it was because of José Socrates, because of the troika, that there were all these closures and that the PSD and CDS had to do so. This is another reality that you don't want to talk about, because you're also complicit, because after 2015, you know that you're complicit in this too. [[Protests of L and of PS and PCP Members.]] We heard the Members elected by Évora and Beja say that they did so much by the Alentejo, that the Socialist Party has done so much by the Alentejo. In fact, at the level of territorial cohesion, it's here. What does the Socialist Party and this government have to do with territorial cohesion? Nothing. Where's the government? Nothing. A debate of this importance, and the government does not appear. But they did so much, why does Alentejo still be the region of the country where more people go to Lisbon? Why? This is the reflection you have to make. And then the short mindset of the Socialist Party is when we speak in the high-performance center, so that young people practice sports, to be athletes. The athletes do not have to be only from Lisbon or Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u289	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u290	I will finish, Mr. President. Alentejo deserves opportunities and you do not want to give these opportunities to Alentejo. I've heard about the Pisão fence, not the Pisão Dam, because they've turned that into a pin instead of a dam. I have not heard of, for example, Borders, the destruction of the historical bridge and also of the national road No. 243, of Monforte to Fronteira, are both cut since December. What has the Government of the Socialist Party done? Ball. Is that territorial cohesion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u291	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u292	It is, when there is a problem inside the country, trying to solve, that is what you have not done. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u293	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fatima Ramos has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u294	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing a debate which sometimes departs immensely from what is reality. And it departs immensely, because it is a debate in which some, particularly the Socialist Party, seek to convey the idea of a country that is not the real country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u295	But when we make our way through our territory, when we go to Trás-os-Montes or when we go inside the Algarve, it seems like the Mr. Members of the Socialist Party accompanying us are sensitive to the problems that exist. So I think it's time, instead of putting your head in the sand, like the ostrich, we'll try to join and see what we can do differently to reverse this process. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the people who leave these territories do not do so because they do not like to live there, or because they think they have no potential. Don't! They do so because they lack public policies that help them develop. One of the really important public policies to develop these territories has to do with the issue of water. We need to implement measures, not only on projects and paper, but on the ground, which help and facilitate the watering of the fields. Because without watering the fields, we have no olive oil, the cows die, the animals die, which is what is happening right now. We have drought processes that are getting worse. Climate change is there, they're not like the airport, which we've been talking about for 50 years. They said they came, and they are there, and we have to act at the level of government policies and also in these policies before the small owners, those who want to do the charcas, as has already been said, and that the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) raises numerous difficulties to license them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u297	The small dams charge fees, there are bureaucratic processes which Mrs. Minister of Agriculture herself classifies as administrative processes. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, we have to look at this in another way and act in another way, if we do not want the severe drought to continue to kill us, if we do not want only palliative measures or quick-thinking remedies to arise, as are currently emerging from the Minister of Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we went now, as I said, in the Algarve, we came to the Alentejo, and we saw that the desert is moving between Alentejo and Algarve. Therefore, these projects that the PSD proposes must be implemented. They are punctual, but after the completion of these projects, I make you a challenge: that we all together think of a strategy to combat drought and future droughts, with ambition. It has to be done by technical and political consensus, an ambitious project of transvas and albueiras, avoiding that part of the water continues to go to the sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u299	thus, we can get the country to produce more, export more, give more quality of life and grow more. That's what we want, and that's why we fight. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u300	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Berta Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's talk about valuing the interior. [[PSD protests.]] [[Now it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u302	The Interior Valuation Programme was approved by the Government of the Socialist Party in 2020, after the work done by the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, created in January 2016, followed by the approval of the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, approved by the Government of the Socialist Party in November 2016, and the identification of low density territories approved by the Portrait in July 2017. This program has been systematically evaluated, the Interior Valuation Program, and updated, in order to contribute to the territorial cohesion and development of the interior territories. The creation of a new government area, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, is another sign of the Socialist Party's commitment to work systematically, with evaluation and adjustment of measures, to achieve this objective of territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u304	This authoritative debate requested by the PSD, supported by the draft resolutions we are discussing today, is an attempt to confuse and say that they are also committed to this same objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, it is a mix of themes that nothing pays for the greater party of the opposition. Many of these proposals are already on the ground,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u305	Results? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u306	... as for example, a very important theme for territorial cohesion, digital connectivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u307	Little doll! Little doll!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u308	The PSD recommends that a tender be launched for the mobile network, for the coverage of the territory in areas where there is no economic incentive for lack of population. However, this competition, which we suppose will only be the 5G auction already launched by ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), is already on the ground, running, and aims to cover 75 % of the dwellings and all the parish, up to 2023, and 90 %, up to 2025. The other recommendation is that a tender should be launched urgently for the coverage of the white areas on a fixed network. Now, the map of the white areas has been in public discussion twice, and at the moment, the European Commission is negotiating the schedule of charges, and the tender is scheduled to be launched by the end of June this year, i.e. next month.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u310	Two years and zero! Zero to do that job!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u311	This is necessary, since half of this investment is European funds. And the aim is to cover all fregueries, including housing and agricultural enterprises, i.e. 100 % of all territories which still have white areas, mostly located in the interior territories, will be covered by high-capacity fixed network, making these territories more connected and competitive by this route. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Territorial cohesion and the exploitation of the interior territories require complementary, continuous and continuously evaluated policy measures in order to take advantage of all opportunities and respond to developments in the situation of these territories. On the visit we made with the 13th. the Commission to the Algarve, visited the facilities of UALG TEC CAMPUS ( Accelerator for Enterprises of the University of Algarve ), an accelerator of companies of the University of Algarve, where we found companies and researchers of various nationalities, and where we were mentioned, on the one hand, the connection to the territory and research turned to the resolution of local problems and on the other hand the ability to internationalize and attract foreign companies and investors, praising policy instruments of this government, such as Tech Visa and SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives to Research and Business Development ). According to the head of these centres, these policy measures make these research and acceleration centres highly competitive. We have also visited the Cachop parish, which has already been mentioned several times today, in the heart of the Algarve, and the investment of more than 2 million euros in the Centre of Airways, to combat rural fires. It has been mentioned to us by Mr President of the House that the parish is increasing the population with foreigners and Portuguese who have left these territories of the Algarve and are now returning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is, the Algarve saw, which as many other regions of the interior were in demographic loss, is now increasing its population, including children, and this year reopened a child centre that had been shut down due to the lack of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u313	These are two examples of policies to enhance the interior. But the Inland Development Programme, in particular that is being implemented by the Socialist Government, is a good example of a programme with several measures, which is being continuously evaluated and updated. This is the only way to achieve results in a complex problem, which is not solved by accumulating measures, such as those brought here by the PSD, nor one day to the next. What brings us here is a good example of what should not be done in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u314	Of course, not to contradict you, Ex.a.!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u315	Such a mix of unrelated themes, most of which are already on the ground, just to say that they care. We are all concerned and we are certainly aware of this issue, but the Socialist Party has a consistent and evaluated programme and measures, and the PSD, in fact, has nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u316	The honourable Member has a request for clarification, not having time to answer. However, in order to make the request for clarification, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u317	Mr President, until the answer can be given even in the vote, I mean two things. What should not even be done in these situations is to speak with color. Mrs Berta Nunes, the competition you mentioned has nothing to do with the 5G auction, which has been a long time ago. Are we talking about a public investment programme that has three ANACOM consultations and knows how many government competitions? Zero! It has zero government competitions published. [[PSD applause.]] And then something else, which is very important, is that even if I had launched the competition for the fixed network, fixed network is not mobile network, the mobile network is missing. And what do we propose there? It is that they make a contest for the mobile network and do not do the slots of José Socrates, who, in my region, gave everything, public funds, to Fibroglobal, to fund a monopoly of privates, which then cost people in my region a lot. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] I therefore call on you to give this answer, which is the following: if you can prove that the PSD draft resolution is wrong, then vote against it. If not, you have to do an act of contradiction and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u318	To close the debate, Mr Luís Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the value of the interior aimed to point out a set of paths, with a view to the dignity of the quality of life of the populations and of the territory of the interior, a totally unbalanced national territory, whose districts do not represent, at least 20 % of the Portuguese population. This situation needs to be reversed. This is, in fact, one of the great challenges Portugal has to overcome. [[PSD applause.]] The proposals submitted by the PSD — which have made so much progress to the Socialist Party — are not a fundamental reform, which we admit, are intended to ensure the livelihood of the territories, populations and their economies. This is because it is important to improve the unbearable lack of quality of life that the inhabitants of the interior suffer. [[PSD applause.]] We understand that it is important to intervene in matters of accessibility, health conditions, digital connectivity, bearing in mind that we cannot build a house by the roof, but by its foundations. Now these are the foundations; then, in own time, the PSD will present the fundamental reforms for the development of the interior territories. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what makes no sense is the elderly in the interior—as is the case in the Cachopo parish, which we visited last Tuesday—they have to wait two hours, in a circumstance where they suffer from a stroke (brain stroke) or a myocardial infarction, in order to be able to reach the central hospital of the Algarve. [[PSD applause.]] What makes no sense is the lack of water resources planning—which must be done in the medium and long term—and we will be managing the country's water under the circumstances of an authentic catastrophe, the fruit of the drought we are living. What makes no sense is that we are in 2023 and the city of the interior which has grown — which is Viseu — still have, as my colleague Guilherme Almeida said, an infrastructure as important as the IP3, whose construction is still to be completed. What makes no sense is to promote policies of the interior without the digital connectivity of these territories being resolved, and we have a huge sea of white areas, within the country. [[PSD applause.]] To that end, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important, as Andrés Rodríguez-Pose said, to leave the « development trap », from what prevents us from growing, from reaching development milestones. To that end, we need to have a new government, because the Socialist Party has already proved that it is unable to implement structural policies for the country. [[PSD applause.]] Now, in this debate, we have come up with a quite clear aspect: for the Socialist Party, since its government, Portugal is the country of wonders. But when opposed, the Socialist Party tunes the channel of fakenews, the channel of history, in which it always says that the blame is on the other, even if the other party has finished its governance a decade ago. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country needs a government, this country needs a government, this country needs reforms, because this Socialist Party has already shown that it is unable to govern Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u320	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the debate is closed, we shall proceed to the vote. I ask the services that operate the electronic quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] There are no problems, so I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, which is why we are going to vote. We begin with the general vote on draft resolution No 185 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions through investment in improving health conditions in these territories. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Cristina Sousa is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u321	Mr. President, to announce that Mr. Deputies António Pedro Faria, Hugo Carvalho, José Carlos Barbosa, Paulo Araújo Correia, Rosário Gambôa and I will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u322	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Mara Lagriminha Coelho asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u323	For the same purpose, Mr President. To inform you that I will hand over, along with the honourable Members. Mr Alexandra Leitão, Francisco Dinis, Hugo Costa and Manuel Afonso, a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u324	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 225 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the review and updating of regional territorial planning programmes and improve the conditions for the connectivity of the interior with a view to greater territorial cohesion. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 335 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop irrigation policies to promote the competitiveness of the interior regions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the PCP, and abstentions against BE and L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No 346 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions through investment in heritage, culture and sport. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 359 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the competitiveness of the interior regions through investment in improving accessibility conditions for these territories. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] Mr. Luís Graça is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u325	Mr. President, it is to announce that I will present, together with the Members Francisco Oliveira, Isabel Guerreiro, Jamila Madeira and Jorge Botelho, written explanations of vote in relation to Resolution Projects Nos 185 / XV / 1. a, 225 / XV / 1. a and 359 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u326	That's a weight on your conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-05-11.u327	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The agenda for tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m., begins with the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV / 1. a — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. [[Pause.]] of the second point is the debate of draft resolution No 617 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends to the Government that no public body may require a document issued by another public body, implementing a procedure allowing communication between public bodies to obtain such documents, together with the Bills No 659 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Eliminates the obligation to affix the car insurance disticulum, 710 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Withdraw the temporary character from permanent certainty, 714 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the payment obligation to comply with the annual IES requirement, 715 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminate unjustified validity deadlines in online certificates, and 753 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Creates a unique heritage base that enables the sharing of heritage data between Conservatories of the Building Registry, Tax Authority, Authorities and IMT. The third point deals with the joint discussion of Bill 568 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Mitigating the rupture of medicines in Portugal by production made by the National Medicines Laboratory, 447 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure access to medicines, glasses, hearing aids and dental prostheses through their participation, 525 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Scheme for the participation of medicinal products, medical devices and supplements for enteric and parenteral feeding, 746 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Financial support scheme for the acquisition of glasses and lenses, dental prostheses, hearing aids and orthopedic footwear, 748 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Sets the conditions under which the National Laboratory of Medicine can produce medicinal products in a situation of rupture or highly expensive, 749 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends the beneficiaries of the additional health benefits and ensures the participation of the acquisition of hearing aids and orthopedic material, amending Decree-Law No 252/2007 of 5 July and 750 / XV/1. a ( PAN) — It enables the recovery of VAT of acquisitions of medical equipment or equipment by IPSS, amending Decree-Law No 84 / 2017 of 21 July and Resolution Projects No 546 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency drug import model, 561 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the capacity and competences of the National Medicines Laboratory, 612 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Close access to the medicine and 613 / XV / 1. a (IL) — For the sustainability of access to medicine and medical devices. of the fourth point is the joint assessment of Petition No 62 / XV / 1. a — environmental crimes committed by pig husbandry in the Leiria region, together with Resolution Projects Nos 606 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Fight for the discharges of pig effluents in Leiria region and for the protection of the river Lis river basin, 618 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Operationalization of a working group for the implementation of an integrated solution for the collection, treatment and enhancement of the effluents of pig husbandry, with a view to protecting the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers, 635 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Memorandum of Understanding with a view to implementing a definitive integrated solution for the problem of swine pollution in the Lis river basin, 650 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to combat the discharges of the pig industry and 651 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme for safeguarding the environmental quality of the Lis River Basin. Finally, the fifth and last points include the legislative votes. Thank you all very much and a very good afternoon. See you tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 16 minutes.]]
