ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented. We can therefore start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. The first item on our agenda is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 23 / XV. I ask the House to be able to read this message from the President of the Republic. [[Pause.]] Its content is as follows: “ Ex. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Following the Constitutional Court judgment of 30 January 2023, published in the Diário da República, I Serie, of today..." — 3 February — «... which considered unconstitutional standards of the diploma subject to the preventive supervision of constitutionality, together with return, without promulgation, in accordance with Article 279 ( 1 ). that of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 23 / XV, which regulates the conditions under which the assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are now going to read the file. To that end, I give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I shall take account of the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President. First, I refer to Law Nos 58 and 59 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which fall to 1. the Commission. Law No. 521 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 522 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 523 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 524 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 525 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 526 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 527 and 528 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 529 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 530, 531, 532 and 533 / XV / 1. a ( L ), down to 4. the Commission, 534 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 535 and 536 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), down to 4. the Commission, 537 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 538 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 539 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 540 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 541 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 542 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. Mr President, with your permission, Ms Palmira Maciel will continue to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u3	Mr. President and Mr. Members have also entered the Drafts of Law No 543 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 545 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 546 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 547 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 548, 549, 550, 551, 552, 553, 554, 555, 556 and 557 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), down to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 435 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 436 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 437 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 438 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 439 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 440 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 441 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 442 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u4	Let us then move on to item 2 of the agenda, which consists of the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. To open the debate, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would say that there are two fundamental points at the European Council tomorrow. Firstly, I stress the meeting with President Zelenskyy, who will be present at the European Council tomorrow, allowing us to discuss together not only the process of support for Ukraine, to continue to deal with Russia's aggression, but also the European prospects of Ukraine. It is important to reaffirm that, in addition to Ukraine having to meet the accession criteria, it is above all the European Union ( EU ) that needs to be asked about the need to make institutional and budgetary reforms so that the expectations it created did not result in frustration tomorrow. Therefore, in order for these enlargements to succeed, it is essential that the European Union not ignore the need for reform in advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u7	The second issue relates to the issue of the competitiveness of European companies in the face of energy shock and also to the measures taken by the United States of America in response to inflation. Portugal's position on this subject is based on three fundamental points. First, we recognize that it is essential, in the current context, that there is agility of State aid mechanisms, provided that it is in a temporary, proportional and focused form in the sectors effectively at risk of loss of competitiveness. Secondly, these State aid must bear in mind that the greatest achievement of the European Union was the creation of its internal market, which is the best guarantee of competitiveness for our companies. This means that State aid should not compromise the integrity of the internal market and should avoid fragmentation. However, State aid which depends on the differentiated budgetary capacity of each State necessarily creates such fragmentation. It is not by chance that 77 % of State aid granted under the temporary system of cod and which has remained in force are essentially two Member States of the European Union, the rest being the other 25. There are two measures which, on a proposal from Portugal, the European Commission considers in its communication to help mitigate this fragmentary effect. First of all, and I would say, more importantly, that it is about State aid to ensure that there is no reduction in productive capacity in the European Union when a State supports a company that is active in several Member States, it must ensure that there is no reduction in productive capacity in any of the Member States where it is active. For example, if Germany allocates State aid to a subsidiary company in several Member States, that guarantee of non-location and maintenance of productive capacity should be ensured for all Member States. Secondly, there should be an increase in the limits on State aid when there are country-to-country consortia, and in particular between small and medium-sized countries, which together can help to balance the differentiation with countries with greater budgetary capacity, thus helping to establish truly integrated value chains at European level. If State aid is important at the same time, we must strengthen European funding conditions for European companies. As President Ursula von der Leyen, recently in the College of Europe, said very clearly, a common industrial policy requires common European funding. We could not say it more clearly, and the mechanism for speeding up State aid needs to be complemented by the existence of this common funding. We know that common funding usually translates into long discussions. That is why, since October, we insist that what it is necessary to do immediately is to simplify eligibility, whether the NextGenerationEU or the REPowerEU, to apply the unused funds until the time of the different recovery and resilience programmes, including the size of loans. I give our example: we could access anything like EUR 14 billion in loans, but so far we have only decided to use 3000 million to deal with the impact of inflation on construction costs, which introduce difficulties to municipalities, the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and businesses. We may have to use these resources a little more, but there will always be billions of euros left behind that we will not use, as there are many states that have billions of euros that will not use, and these funds should revert to a common fund, which could immediately respond under REPowerEU. Finally, and thirdly, if we want to be competitive, the European Union must have a more ambitious trade policy than it has had, and therefore it must always give priority to the conclusion of the investment agreements with India — whose negotiations were resumed in our Presidency — with Australia, with New Zealand, with Mexico, with Chile, and above all we hope that the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur ( the Common Market of the South) will finally be concluded in the Spanish Presidency. This is why: State aid, if it is temporary, focused and proportionate, is complemented by mitigation measures which, in order to ensure the capacity installed in all Member States, increase State aid when it comes to several Member States ; secondly, common fund, already available and unused from the NextGenerationEU via REPowerEU ; and, finally, a more ambitious trade policy, which implements the agreements far to be achieved between the European Union and other economic partners at global level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u8	In order to intervene in the time allocated to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u9	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: The war in Ukraine is an unmistakable issue on the agenda of the European Council, as Mr. Prime Minister has already mentioned, and has been present on the political and media agenda around the world. On the next 24th day of this month, Russia has invaded Ukraine for a year. We know how and when the war started, but we don't know when or how it will end. We know, however, its devastating effects: thousands of lives lost, military and civilian, kidnapped children, many thousands of displaced people, cities destroyed, irrecoverable historical-cultural heritage, energy crisis, inflation, rising cost of essential goods, world food crisis. These are some of the already known and felt consequences, but the medium and long-term effects will certainly be more dramatic. Because of the war in Ukraine, the future has become more unpredictable and the most dangerous world. Europe has been at the height of these times of urgency and uncertainty. The European institutions have been united in decision-making and in support of Ukraine. European public opinion understands what is at stake and has been solidarity. Until when? Nobody knows. The fatigue of the pandemic has not yet been overcome. What can happen if the fatigue of the pandemic adds to the fatigue of the war? The populists and demagogues manipulate public opinion, disinformation and cast confusion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u10	The extreme right, skilled in taking advantage of the other misfortune and riding all sorts of discontent, does not hide arrogance and ambition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] Mr Prime Minister, Spanish Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Nadia Calvino, said yesterday to the Newspaper that «the good understanding between Sánchez and Costa has been one of the major drivers of EU action». I congratulate and thank both of you for continuing to draw the Union on the right side of history and, in particular, for the flexibility of financial instruments to be used, as was also mentioned in the Prime Minister's speech. The economic situation in Europe is inseparable from the new geopolitical reality. The war in Ukraine has a high economic, political, social, financial impact. The EU needs to improve its economic performance and prepare for the post-war period, whether it is when it is. More economic growth is needed, but also more equity. I welcome the announcement of a directive to approximate the taxation of multinationals in different EU countries. I hope that fiscal harmonisation will finally cease to be an intention for decades and become a reality. This year, the single market has been 30 years, a good time to rethink and improve the model of the four fundamental freedoms. To rethink and improve to take advantage of all the potential and meet the expectations of citizens. It is enough to look at the situation in the United Kingdom to realize the lack of the internal market of about 450 million consumers. Mr. Prime Minister, I end with two questions. The first, taking advantage of President Zelenskyy's presence at the meeting, is the following: is it foreseeable that the European Council can also examine the difficult paths to end the war and negotiate peace? The second question is: what is the role of the single market in the transition to the circular economy and the success of the ecological and digital transition in Europe? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u11	Even in the time available for the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: Mr. Prime Minister just said that, in fact. This European Council will deal with matters of enormous relevance to our European Union, particularly two, the question of war, of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but also the question of competitiveness and resilience of European industry in the face of a threat, I would say that the United States has recently adopted - and I have had the opportunity to talk about it in this House - the Inflation Reduction Act. We are talking about more than $350 billion that the United States has decided to allocate to its industry, with a view to making it greener, more competitive, finally, in the best uses of sustainability. I have already had the opportunity to say that we do not, of course, have anything against this, but we know what impact it will have on European industry. Mr Prime Minister has given some clues that he is going to defend tomorrow at the European Council, and I would just like to stress on behalf of the Socialist Party the importance of increasingly relying on external markets, also to be less and less dependent — or better, more and more independent — on external crises. It is clear that the green industry, of course, innovation, obviously needs to be supported by new technologies, and it is also clear that States should not do so alone, because we know that this could only increase the gap in inequalities and also contribute to the fragmentation of the European Union, as Mr President-in-Office of the Council here said. We therefore hope that the European Union has learned the lesson. In 2008 we reacted in a way to the subprime crisis. This has led to consequences which are known to the peoples of Europe and, in particular, to those countries which already face more difficulties in structural matters. Now recently, in order to combat a health crisis, which has naturally had social and economic consequences, such as cowardice, we are doing well, so that I can say so. Why? Because we gave a cohesive and united answer. Mr President, I am sure that this House recognises a great deal of prestige at European level. There is a Prime Minister of Portugal who has, in fact, been innovative with policies that have achieved results. That is what we hope for in the Council tomorrow: to convince Europe that the answer must be united, it must be cohesive, of course, to continue this path of prosperity and that the European Union project is not at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u13	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u14	We are fully confident that this will happen and, finally, Mr President, we have confidence that even today you have received good news, that we have another payment under the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) to be guaranteed to our country. This too is very much due to your ex.a. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u15	You have the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: Mr Prime Minister, you told us in your initial speech about the war in Ukraine, and with all the respect I have for you, allow me to tell you that what has been seen is a Portuguese government that has used war too often as an excuse for mistakes and failures and less as an external policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u17	Let us agree, Prime Minister, that responding to a war is also to respond to its effects and not only use the war as an excuse for the lack of response by the Government. [[PSD applause.]] Furthermore, the impacts of the pandemic still have an effect on the citizens of the European Union, and on them they have added the impact of war on Ukraine. The difference is that the PSD looks at these challenges with the will to seek answers and, unlike the government, the PSD refuses to look at the negative impacts generated by the pandemic, by the war, as excuses that avoid the development of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u18	I thought it was because of that they had no alternatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u19	Turning directly to the economic part of your intervention, it is clear that the European Union has to build an answer to overcome the challenges of energy transition and, at the same time, to fight inflation. in this sense, it would be important to realize, Mr Prime Minister, how and when Portugal defended the construction or adaptation of a European response to these challenges and, in this context, we have three very specific questions to put to you, Ex.A. First, it will be essential to understand Portugal's position as regards the application of a possible European sovereignty fund, since this issue is not unanimous between all Member States. Secondly, it seems that European responses only occur or because we respond to the war in Ukraine, or because we respond to the Inflation Reduction Act, or because we respond to anything else. Yes, we certainly have to answer. But will we always be responding, always reacting, is that the solution? Should we not have a permanent mechanism to pursue the objectives of the European project? And, in this regard, Mr Prime Minister, allow me to do as you have already done in this Parliament at some time, and to mention, very warmly, Prof. Cavaco Silva, who wrote the following: « The lessons that have been removed from the response to the crisis should stimulate European leaders to rapidly equip the euro area with a common budgetary stabilization function. Do you not agree that we should consider creating a permanent European budgetary mechanism in these terms? Finally, in the third and final place, you said last week that the new implementation framework of the PRR would have been sound. Mr Prime Minister, since it is common sense, and common sense is something that must not be lacking, it seems to us important to explain to the Portuguese here, in this Parliament, what has been done in this regard. Or is it that good sense, for you, for Ex.a, is it like your Minister suggested, i.e., is it just let the PRR make it profitable in the banks? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u20	Even in the time available for the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and Minister : Mr Prime Minister, I am here to talk to you about the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which is the difficulty for Portuguese families to put food on the table. This is an absolutely central aspect and I believe it must be one of the pillars of its intervention tomorrow in the Council. As you know, food prices, the price of essential goods, rose between 20 % and 40 %, in many cases more than five times than recorded inflation. As you know, housing loans have reached levels that the Portuguese, with their available income, can only with great difficulty pay, or they can no longer. Mr Prime Minister, the economic situation of families and Portuguese must be a matter of priority and should guide it in its intervention at the European Council tomorrow. We are talking about priority for Portuguese families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u22	in this sequence, I also bring you the theme of energy, which is as important as that. And why? Because the cost of energy we have impacts on the cost of food and essential goods. Let me tell you that the World Bank has consistently stated that by 2025, even with the reductions that may occur in the electricity tariff, electricity will cost 50 % more than the average of the last five years. This means that it is crucial that Europe and the country respond to the issue of the cost of electricity to businesses and families. And for this, the PSD returns to the question of electrical interconnections, not only those that are not known about the situation point, such as those with Morocco, which should be on the agenda as a matter of priority. It does not make sense to Mr. Prime Minister to want to increase the production of renewable energy, to have a surplus by 2030 to have his hydrogen pipeline, but at the same time not to create the interconnections, because only they allow the efficient management of renewable energy production which is by volatile nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u24	Mr. Prime Minister, in relation to the difficulties of families, it is not the 125 € or the 50 € — these are already going! - to help them. Families don't need these punctual acts; families want you to fulfill your mission, and fulfilling your mission is to rule well. And tomorrow there is only one person who can do so on our behalf at the European Council, Mr Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] What we have asked you to do, Prime Minister, is just one thing: if you have had the highest vote, you have the highest responsibility and you have good governance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u25	Mr Ventura has the floor now, within the time available for the Parliamentary Group of Arrival. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister : I take advantage of your presence here today to question you not directly about the European Council...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u27	Oh, of course! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u28	... but on your Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been here today in this Parliament to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u29	This is to respect Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u30	I know this is awkward for you, but you have to listen to me. [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, you're always asking me to contain myself, but the PS doesn't contain itself. I know it's your party, but at least you should have some hand in the Socialist Party as well. Mr Prime Minister has certainly heard, as I heard today, Mr Foreign Minister's statements. There couldn't be any bigger shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u32	Greater inconsistencies, incoherence, communication disaster, everything we can see in life! He came to the point of asking whether the Secretary of State had been indicated the appointment of Alberto Coelho, to which John Cravinho answered: «Well, we talked about a lot, you know, but on that day we did not talk about it. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister, as leader of an opposition party for a government leader, I tell you: this your Foreign Minister is a bubble waiting to blow up, it's a political disaster, it's a disaster for your government. I cannot fail to ask you whether, after what you have heard here today in Parliament, you maintain your confidence in the man who represents us in communities, in Europe and everywhere as Minister for Foreign Affairs. on our part, the answer is clear: John Cravinho no longer takes place in this government and only one decision can make him. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would also like to ask, because the subject is on the agenda, on immigration. We had in Portugal, still this week, two lamentable episodes, one in Lisbon and the other in Algarve, related to immigration. As we all know, immigration is not a Portuguese phenomenon, it is a European phenomenon, indeed, much more intensified in some countries of Europe. But today there is an inevitable truth: the migration policy of open doors, the European migration policy of open doors has led to these disasters. The policy Mr. Prime Minister wanted from an open country, without supervision, without rule and without control is giving rise to the disaster we are seeing, of immigrants living at 100 or 80 in some buildings in Lisbon and Porto or living on the street, after ministers have gone to Timor-Leste to say to come. What we have today not only in Portugal but in many countries in Europe is that we meant that we were the biggest, the finest, those who received everything and something else and today what we have is a disaster for the integration of these people and, even worse, the opening of rotating doors to criminal networks, which are so damaging our country. [[PS Edit Star Member's Protests.]] No, Mrs Edite Estrela, it's not the extreme right. If today the challenge to the regime grows, it has a name and a responsible one. Yes, yes, it is your shell, because it is that of the Socialist Party, which has destroyed the regime in Portugal! It is the Socialist Party which has destroyed the regime in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Prime Minister, I ask you if you will ever have the courage to say what needs to be said in the European Council: this open-door policy must destroy Europe and what is best for our civilization, and it is already being revealed every day. I end by referring to the PRR. We have heard the Socialist Party Member say 'Congratulations for the PRR'. Sometimes, more-value doesn't say anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u34	...for one afternoon. Since he talks so little, he might not have said anything today, when we know that the PRR was executed at 8%.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u35	So now it's not zero? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u36	Three hours ago, Mr. President of the Republic, who is in a palace nearby, said he is sad with the slow execution of the PRR.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u37	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u38	Who said it was the President of the Republic! Have shame! They're misexecuting European funds! Have shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] The President of the Republic criticises the slow implementation of the PRR. What do you have to say to this, Prime Minister? Leave there, for 10 minutes, the peace in the world, the embraces, the hearts and responds to the Portuguese who are seeing us, who want to know what the Prime Minister of Portugal has to respond to the disaster that the country is facing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u39	Even in the time available for the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister : First of all, I would like to welcome you, because on the eve of the European Council, as a rule, you are the Secretary of State who usually comes here. So, I'm glad you're here, Prime Minister. I ask a single question about the PRR, which has a great focus on modernization and digitization. If we had made an investment in the local administration, it would be possible to prevent the parish board from passing 10 000 residence certificates to Benformoso Street, where 200 people live in a house, and thus would also avoid deaths like those that happened in the last days. Would you be able to defend this situation with the Council? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u41	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister : I have four questions to ask you. The first question is about Ukraine. A year ago, this month, which began the Russian invasion, so I begin by reaffirming our support. So, I would like to ask you how many Leopard 2 tanks are operational and how many are we going to send. The second question is about the Industrial Plan of the Ecological Pact, which you mentioned here and which largely facilitates State aid and the injection of subsidies, at least that is what we are saying to so-called "strategic" companies. If approved, in our view, it will lead to an unbridled race to subsidies and fragmentation of the internal market, obviously benefiting the largest countries, such as France and Germany, to the detriment of the smaller countries. In the communiqués I heard, I concluded that more than half of the European Union countries — they were significantly 14 — have already criticized this idea and warned about its dangers, but unfortunately I did not see the name of Portugal. I would like to know what position the Portuguese Government will adopt at the European Council, because we do not want Portugal to become a village of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u43	No, it doesn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u44	The third question is about the single market. on a quick note, I would like to say that last month the European Commission warned that our ISV (vehicle tax) on imported hybrid cars was against European rules, something that had already happened with regard to the ISV of used cars. I would like to know what the government is going to do about this, so that we are not in the same situation as we were in the case of used vehicles, where we have been constantly condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union and many citizens have been harmed by the State. The fourth question is about the European Semester. I would like to know if you have an answer for me, because eight months ago, in June, I asked you about the legislative package for the reorganization of public service, a requirement of the PRR, which was also in the European recommendations. I note, by your face, that perhaps, you have no idea what I'm talking about, which is even more worrying, but by the end of 2023 it has to be done. We have 10 months for something to be done, but I notice, by your face, that you have no idea what it is, and that worries me. Prime Minister, one of the requirements of the PRR is this legislative package to have a new model for managing public service. So I ask you how exactly this legislative reform is: if the new system of information and organization of the State, which is promised seven years ago, will finally advance and there will also be a new model of evaluation of the public function itself. In our understanding, in public service, we have to reward who does and we have to dispense who does not. And people who really do and are good have to be increased much faster. Public service cannot be a center of employment, with the bad reputation of nothing to do, it has to be a place with very good people, serving the Portuguese, and that must be well paid for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u46	To do this, we obviously need a new management and evaluation system, because it is immoral that a doctor is 10 years old waiting for career progress to gain more than 200 € per month; it is immoral that a system like the current one has evaluation quotas, as if in a legal department there could not be more than 5 % of technicians with excellent performance; it is immoral that a nurse looks at a specialty contest and sees that most criteria are of antiquity rather than of service quality. People need to be evaluated in a much fairer way and progress and wage increases must be much faster for those who really deserve it. But this also means that there is a demanding assessment on the other hand, which includes the evaluation of the citizens themselves, of the users themselves, of the colleagues and of the services provided, which is not currently happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u47	No, it's just some kind of discrimination! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u48	The first assessment to be done is whether there is a need for that function or not, whether this function may or may not be digitized, for example, because today we have a record of civil servants, about 740 000 employees — more than 90 000 in 2015 when Mr. Prime Minister took possession of it — and we have no idea if they are more or less, if there are more places and less in others. Indeed, this is no way to manage a country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u49	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. We need a much smaller, modern and digital public function, but also with better management and better progression. I would like to know how this legislative reform is, which must be done, on European demand, by the end of the year. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u51	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : Mr Prime Minister said that it is not desirable for the interest rate to rise so much and that the ECB ( European Central Bank ) should be quite cautious when raising interest rates. And he also added that it is not with the rise of interest rates that fight inflation. In view of these findings, I ask you what you have done or what you intend to do? In view of the gross consequences of excessive interest rate increases in the increase in bank benefits — particularly households with housing credit, but also economic activity, particularly in micro and small enterprises — what will the Government say about this problem in the European Council? Or do you also think this is a matter where political power cannot intervene? Last week, the ECB decided to raise interest rates for the fifth time, placing them at the highest value of the last 14 years, leaving the prospect of further increases open. We are facing the deepening of injustices and inequalities, in which wages and pensions lose purchasing power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u54	... the prices of essential goods and services do not stop increasing, including housing costs, and economic groups are achieving never seen profits. In Portugal more than 1 million families are estimated to have loaned to housing. The exponential increase in interest rates is becoming unbearable: benefits increase €100, €200, €300, €400; there are families whose increases mean more 80%, that is when the bank gets scandalous profits. Unless measures are taken, sooner than later, the situation will be voluming-CL, with many families being able to enter into a situation of non-compliance and they will be able to come to their home until they lose their home. The charges are unbearable, in the face of the low wages. We remember that more than 70% of Portuguese workers earn less than 1000 €. The measures announced by the Government in renegotiating contracts have proved to be ineffective, confirming that it always wins the strongest side — the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u55	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u56	In its most recent economic forecasts, the European Commission recognises the great loss in real income available to families, considering that it should continue in the next quarter, and in most Member States it is expected that families can resist rising interest rates, thanks to the prevalence of mortgage loans at fixed rates, which is why — if not — the European Commission is resting. And the government has nothing to say about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u58	It is that the mortgage market in the euro area is heterogeneous with regard to the type of interest rate associated, whether variable or fixed. In several countries such as France, Germany or the Netherlands, the vast majority of loans granted to families have a fixed rate. in other countries, like Portugal, reality is different because the overwhelming majority of these loans have variable interest rates, which implies that interest rates rise reflects the increase in monthly benefits. In other words, the European Commission itself recognises that the ECB's monetary policy is likely to harm, in particular, Portuguese workers and families. And what does the government have to say about this? It should be said that, once again, the limits and perversions of the existence of a single monetary policy for countries under very different conditions are confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u59	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u60	I shall indeed end, Mr President, by raising only one last question. I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister whether he also believes that the Portuguese continue with a high consumption pattern and dinner outside Friday, as a banker recently said when he announced the duplication of profits. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u61	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u62	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: I wanted to begin by lending our solidarity to all the victims of the earthquake that took place in the territories of Turkey and Syria. I would like to leave two concerns relating to the European Council's discussion. The first concern concerns the use of centralization of support to weaken the Kurdish people and limit their autonomy. This is not a minor issue, because it is in the Syrian Kurdistan and Turkish Kurdistan that are the regions most affected by the earthquake, and it is necessary to ensure that liberated Kurdish territories maintain their autonomy, either in the face of Erdogan regimes, but also in Assad, and that this autonomy is not a weapon of exchange in order to have access to humanitarian aid. Secondly, we would like to reinforce the call of the medical organization without frontiers, so that conditions are created so as to reach humanitarian aid to Syria, which now has this access to much more difficult aid. We also want to leave a second note of solidarity to the Ukrainian people, with all the voices, including Russian voices, who rise against the spiral of war. It was a year ago that Russia illegally invaded Ukraine, causing a war that does not seem to have an end to sight and that now reaches a new level, when long-range weapons are supplied to Ukraine, therefore weapons with an offensive and non-defensive character. We understand that the European Union must refuse to play a part in a game and in a dispute between great powers and that the drag of this conflict reinforces the need for the European Union to lead a peace conference under the aegis of the United Nations, which works for peace rather than for the escalation of war. Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to note a contradiction in your speech. On Monday and Wednesday, Mr Prime Minister tells workers that they cannot have better wages, they cannot think of having better careers, nor of thinking of lowering taxes, because we are in crisis. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, the Government welcomes the tremendous success of Portuguese GDP (gross domestic product) while larger companies have astronomical profits. Mr. Prime Minister, there are a majority of people in this country who pedal continuously and only live worse, with less pay, with a much higher light and supermarket account and with greater difficulty in paying the interest or income of your home. While this happens, there is a minority that hangs on those who sink to profit from the inflation issue and who still has the potential to tell the country that they cannot have dinner outside on Friday, as did the President of Santander. The increase in ECB interest rates will only increase inequalities and resentment in Portugal. We already know that the government has refused all the solutions, leaving those who are afflicted with rising prices and incomes to their luck. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether you will accept this interest policy of the European Central Bank and, more than that, whether you will continue to apply the policy card of that bank, which is the wage compression imposed by the Government on workers in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u63	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u64	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Minister. Mr Prime Minister, first of all, allow me a word of solidarity to the victims of the earthquake. I also welcome the teams that leave Portugal today to help and ask, of course, whether this is the only aid that is planned or if there is any further humanitarian aid in other dimensions for Turkey and Syria. With regard to support for Ukraine, we wanted to know what Portugal's position will be with regard to the new support requested by Zelenskyy, particularly at aircraft level, and whether in fact it is planned to extend the scope of support and transfer of resources to Ukraine. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, in his speech, told us about the need for support and assistance to the Member States, and we could not agree any more, but it is unfortunate that what we practice outside the house is often not done. It was this month that the Climate Bases Act entered into force. This basic law should be regulated, and the deadline has passed long ago, and, among other things, it had precisely principles for revising perverse subsidies, for example, to companies that may have bad practices from the point of view of pollution. There were also tax incentives for fossil fuels or green taxation, which must be an incentive for businesses to become more competitive, so as to ensure energy transition and to bet on a green economy. So I ask you, Mr Prime Minister, besides what you are going to defend in Europe, when are the implementation and regulation of the Basics of Climate Law in Portugal? Then, on the other hand, and to conclude, I am referring to what was defended by Portugal in the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries on the transport of live animals. It is that the economy cannot be continually being leveraged over animal suffering either. Countries such as Germany have already defended the end of the transport of live animals to third countries and is exporting slaughtered animals to the Member States. The Minister for Agriculture has not been accompanied, so I ask you whether or not she is available to join those who advocate animal welfare and who defend a single European Union policy in respect of these principles.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u65	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u66	For what?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u67	Mr. President, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, I agree with you when you say that it is not only Ukraine that has to do its homework. The European Union must also do its homework, and this must certainly be done by reviewing how it works from an institutional point of view—I think it agrees, because it once stated it here in plenary—from the point of view of the revision of the Treaties itself. What I cannot understand is that the Secretary of State for European Affairs, already in a sitting here in Parliament, said that he did not think that we should move forward to a convention to change treaties. We cannot serve Ukraine that dish so Portuguese that it is the little ass in the mouth, in which they do not enter because they do not do the housework, but, if they do the housework, they do not enter because we did not do our work. Therefore, I wanted to understand exactly what your reasoning is about the review of treaties. We too, Portugal, must do the same with regard to housework, since a European Union with Ukraine will be very different from what is without it and, at a time when large countries of the European Union agree on the entry of Ukraine, it is not a dynamic that can be stopped. In particular, I would like to know more about your idea that we can be more flexible, but also more proportionate, in relation to State aid. The truth is that, as much as they are proportional to GDP, there are countries that have more budgetary width and countries that have less. So we need a permanent PRR, which is obviously not easy, but we need a strategy to achieve it. Thirdly, we have already talked about interest rates here and the banker who says that people should not go out on Friday night. What has not yet been said is that this banker himself decided to end the fixed rate offer in his bank. That is precisely when people want to accommodate the rise of the variable rate, this bank decided that the fixed rate is not interesting after all. Is the government considering legislating or following the proposals that the Free House has already put forward, so that the fixed rate becomes a compulsory service by the banks, allowing people to shelter in these difficult times?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u68	To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Edite Estrela: We all want peace, but only Ukraine can define the moment, the conditions and the terms in which it can accept the negotiation of peace. Ukraine has been invaded, attacked, and Ukraine is now entitled to define the terms, time and conditions for peace. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Paulo Rebelo, you are absolutely right that the European Union cannot learn what you learned from the two previous crises. He mismanaged the crisis of sovereign debts and managed well the crisis of the coward-19. There is no need to invent the wheel: it is not to do again what was wrong and to do again what was right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira asked if I agree that there should be a permanent mechanism. Yes, Mrs Deputy, I have defended you several times and I have the modesty not to mention the 30 times I have defended you. Again recently said here in the House that the SURE programme (Support you the mitigated Employment Risks in an Emergency) worked so well during the covid-19 that it should become a permanent stabilization mechanism, because every time there is a crisis, we cannot be inventing a new mechanism. We know that crises are not permanent, but are recurrent and therefore we need a permanent mechanism to respond to that crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also said, in my first speech, that I am obviously in agreement with the European Sovereignty Fund. But as I know well how long the discussion on the injection of new funds will take, I think it must be based on the funds that have already been raised and that will not be used by the Member States. These are the sovereign funds of the RPPs, of the loan component, of which several Member States will not use anything and other Member States will only use partially. This could be operated very quickly, through REPowerEU, which already exists at this time. Mr. Paulo Moniz, it is clear that no one ignores the priority to face inflation, with a more disastrous consequence and that it breaks the unity of the different Member States of the European Union in support of Ukraine. Our part of the war is also to combat inflation and its causes. That is why we set the rate of VAT (tax on added value) for fertilizers and rations to 0 %. That is why we have been intervening in the gas and petrol market, which ensures that, in a deposit of 50 l, it pays less than €16 of gas or less €14 of gasoline than it would pay if these measures were not in force. Today, thanks to the Iberian mechanism, the price of Megawatt-hour electricity is less than € 27 in Portugal and Spain than in France and less than € 32 in Italy. These are concrete measures we have taken to face this reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also essential to continue the work of interconnections. Even last week, Germany expressed its determination to join Portugal, Spain and France in this project of interconnections and therefore we have strengthened conditions to be able to move forward. Mr. André Ventura, truly for you, no one would take place in this government, because, frankly, it is against the existence of this government. Honor be done to you, honor be done to me, that I believe the government to my own extent and not to your own. Okay, I think we're both equally pleased and each one is doing his job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On emigration, I will also leave you duly satisfied. First, I will never defend, at the European Council or anywhere, what you think about emigration. But let it be, that your voice will be heard in the European Council, because there are those who defend the same as the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[And very well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u70	Mr Bernardo Blanco, at the moment, we are implementing the recovery and maintenance plan for Leopard 2 tanks and, according to the implementation of the plan, we are in a position to be able to dispense three in the next month of March, and that is how we are working. As regards State aid, in my first intervention I had had the opportunity to say that it is inevitable, in the situation we are living in, to maintain the extraordinary mechanism that is in force since the occurrence of the curfew 19 pandemic. But in order to avoid the fragmentary effect of the internal market, there are two fundamental things to be done. First of all, it is necessary to accelerate the implementation of a European fund, either the sovereignty fund or the REPowerEU for the time being. Secondly, with regard to State aid mechanisms, there are two fundamental measures. The first is that each State aid must ensure the commitment by the recipient that it retains the productive capacity not only in that State but in all the Member States of the European Union. This means that when Germany supports a company that has, for example, a factory in Portugal, it must ensure not only the maintenance of productive capacity in Germany, but also in all the countries of the European Union where it is installed, particularly in its factory here in Portugal. The second compensatory measure is the possibility of increasing State aid when granted not by one State but by a set of small and medium-sized States, at least for support affecting cohesion regions, thus helping to create consortia and value chains integrated across the European Union. Finally, I believe that you should take into account that there is no European Union charge in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is not a troika programme; it was proposed by Portugal, accepted by the European Union and the execution and release of funds are done as we meet the goals and the milestones. As has been said recently, Portugal received today the second round of funding, because it has fulfilled all the goals and all the milestones to which it had pledged to be able to receive it. This is how we are gradually implementing the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Paula Santos, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of course one thing is my view that this inflationist crisis is not responding to interest rates increases, another thing is the independence of the Central Bank, which decides how well it fully understands its monetary policy. It is a consequence of the treaty. It should be remembered that when we had our own currency, when there were inflationary crises, the Banco de Portugal did not stop raising the rates. In fact, the first housing credit I contracted was 23 %. So if we had the shield, we had no lower inflation or lower interest rates. Very likely, Mrs. Member, we would surely have a much stronger interest rate rise than we have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, the suggestion I leave, ladies and gentlemen, is that we work on the basis of data. The best way is to call the Governor of Banco de Portugal to the Assembly of the Republic, to provide accurate and accurate information on what is the effective impact of the rise of interest rates on the different categories of income and types of contract because it is important to have the notion of data. As regards the renegotiation mechanism, it is approved and in force. It is known, because it has already been announced, that we have a Council of Ministers dedicated to housing on the 16th day and we will not stop considering these issues. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there is no contradiction, on the contrary. The growth of the economy is a reality. We grew up 6, 7% last year. Today INE numbers have emerged ( National Institute of Statistics ) and we have an unemployment rate of 6 %. We have recovered for the pre-pandamy phase and we have the highest employability rate since there is registration, and these are good numbers. As you know, a social agreement has been signed which provides for a path not only of income recovery but of real increase in incomes throughout the legislature, as has happened since 2016 and, at the end, voting in the Assembly of the Republic — next Friday, I hope — the Dignified Work Agenda, we have an instrument for the dynamisation of collective bargaining, which will greatly help to ensure sustained and predictable growth of wages throughout the legislature. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, yes, we will send humanitarian support not only to Turkey and Syria, but also to Chile, where a mission to support this country in the fight against forest fires is following. This is a very important opportunity to accelerate all the green transition mechanisms and, fortunately, this is happening and, either the PRR or REPowerEU, strengthen precisely the appropriations and the ability to accelerate this transition. Finally, Mr Rui Tavares, with regard to the revision of the Treaties, as is known at the Conference on the Future of Europe, our understanding was that there was no reason for its review to take place, that it was necessary to give priority to the implementation of all the flexibility mechanisms provided for in the Treaties themselves and not involve, in a discussion of 27, an indeterminate number of referenda in the approval of 27 Parliaments, which would certainly be a very long-term process. There is a new reality: from the moment that the European Union decided to open negotiations with Ukraine for accession, and that it said that this opening of negotiations had to correspond in the different states of the Western Balkans, we were talking about a reality of incorporating the new Member States into the European Union. Therefore, from an institutional point of view, in the current treaty, it is not possible to move from 27 to 36 Member States with the current institutional architecture, nor is it possible with the current budget architecture. So if we really want to have this little ass in the mouth and if we do not want to make the mistake that has already been made in the past — when we discussed whether to deepen or extend first and if we decided to do both things at the same time, ending both by being badly done — the truth is that we must also learn from the other lessons of the past and do what must be done well, that is to say, to set up the house, so that this expectation created for Ukraine is indeed serious and not an invitation to the future frustration in relations between Ukraine and the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u71	In the management of Mr Prime Minister's response time, I took into account the fact that all of you are. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have answers to the questions you have raised. We will now move to the third item on our agenda, which concerns the joint assessment of the Draft Resolution No 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for the development of the voluntary carbon market in Portugal, of the Bill No 459 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the statutes of the Climate Action Council established by the Climate Bases Act ( Law No 98 / 2021, of 31 December ), in general, and of Resolution Projects No 212 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Sets out the rules on the composition, organisation, operation and status of the Council for Climate Action, in accordance with Article 12 ( 4 ). oda Climate Bases Act, approved by Law No. 98 / 2021 of 31 December, 378 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the end of perverse subsidies and profits in the field of carbon trade, 405 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the Basics of Climate Law adopted by Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December and carry out the procedures in this respect under its competence, and 406 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a voluntary carbon market and encourage the use of green bonds in Portugal We will allow only one rearrangement of the logistics of the Hemicycle, with the fall to the advanced posts at the front line of the Members. Members in charge of conducting the operations on this point, and I give the floor to Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, who is already standing, to present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At present, only the most energy-intensive companies make up for carbon emissions. This is a regulated market, through the European Trade in Emission Licences, which renews its appropriations in forest areas outside the European area, for example in Amazonia. The ambition we have, with the creation of the voluntary carbon market, is to value the most vulnerable territories in Portugal economically and environmentally: those who have lost people, who today, as a result of climate change, cannot preserve and preserve their environmental and natural heritage. In essence, this market aims to extend the possibility of certifying carbon credits to all economic activities in Portugal by establishing a mechanism for regulating CO2 compensation. There were several factors, both of a social and an economic nature, which led to the abandonment of much of the rustic areas of the national territory — those territories of which I and many of the Members. Members are natural — making them less resilient, in particular the risk of fire and conservation of their biodiversity. It is also these territories that contribute positively to carbon capture in Portugal, so they should be paid for this activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u74	thus, and in addition to the mitigation actions to be adopted in the context of the climate transition process, listed in the National Energy and Climate Plan or the national decarbonization roadmap, it is crucial to use the various types of instruments available to us and to support the objectives and climate goals defined at European level. The PS wants, and wanted, to be innovative with the example of creating a mechanism for environmental and economic recovery of low-density and more vulnerable territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u76	A voluntary carbon market should generate economic incentives to reduce emissions and increase carbon sequestration by strengthening the cost/effectiveness ratio of greenhouse gas mitigation measures, promoting innovative solutions and technologies, a set of tools to support the achievement of national climate action targets by accelerating the transition to a carbon neutral city and strengthening the commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations Agenda. It is also an opportunity to value activities such as agriculture, forest, the primary sector, which guarantee two fundamental pillars of human well-being: food production, but also the preservation of the environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in our vision, industrial activities should also be introduced that demonstrate that, effectively, the energy transition exercise can be valued through the certification of carbon credits. Two examples of this: the way Nestlé uses its capsules and, from there, forms and produces a world-wide brand and reputation product, such as the Caran d'Ache pens; or, a national example, and which is very dear to me, the way Delta Cafés had the ability to re-use all coffee scraps and from there, to produce a product such as mushrooms, consumed and produced on a scale and to the national public. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this context, it is important that knowledge in this area be deepened in the future, in line with that provided in the Climate Bases Act. Also the fact that Portugal has more than 4000 km2 of coastal area and given our marine territory, it is very important to perceive and plan large CO2 absorption projects. The voluntary carbon market must be governed by principles that do not allow financial abuse by agents: credibility, additionality, permanence, effectiveness and monitoring, but also transparency and sustainability. The commitments of carbon neutrality undertaken by the organisations must have a transparent, verifiable mechanism for accounting and emission compensation. In addition, it can create a transparent ecosystem based on digital models such as blockchain or smart contract for all partners or industries wishing to enter the market. This will, for example, allow a company that is located in Proença-a-Nova to stop creating value in a country outside Portugal and can compensate for its emissions in the value of Pinhal Interior and the forest of Pinhal Interior, instead of creating this value outside Portugal. thus, we create credit-generating projects, a true instrument of cohesion policy, which some territories should enhance. Some of you know that a large 1,000 km walk often starts with small steps, such as those we can take today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u77	To present the PSD initiative, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Several times we have spoken in this Parliament about the climate challenge and the terrible consequences it brings to us. We all know of its dimension and the urgency of action that it obliges us to. Well, it's been a year since we passed the Climate Bases Act, a large legislative process, which has united us in a broad consensus. We built in this House an important piece of our legislative building to strengthen our capacity as a country, we will face the state of climate emergency that we recognize. It has spent a year, but they continue to implement and regulate fundamental aspects provided for in this Basics Act, which limit and delay its implementation, scope and effectiveness. For a few months now the alerts have begun to arrive: warnings about the slowness or inaction of the government in the aspects that are of its competence; warnings on fears that the absolute majority does not move forward in this regard; warnings of concern for continuing without carbon budgets, without the portal of climate action and without so many other instruments envisaged and idealised in the Climate Bases Act that the Government has not made so far advance. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not only the Government is compelled to act, but also in the Assembly of the Republic we have powers and obligations not to allow delays that limit the success that we all want. With this in mind, the PSD Parliamentary Group submits a draft law to regulate the operation of the Climate Action Council. We are talking about an independent body, composed of individuals of recognized merit, with knowledge and experience in the different domains affected by climate change, an organ with advisory and collaborative functions in the preparation of assessments, opinions and studies on climate policy and its planning instruments. This important specialized body, which was originally proposed by the PSD and which was provided for in the Climate Bases Act, needs the approval of this bill so that it can finally be constituted and start its relevant functions. This project approves its statutes and, among many other fundamental aspects of its operation, allows its constitution, defines its composition and the rules for the designation of its elements. We present a draft law, and not a mere draft resolution, as presented here by the NAP, so that it can be effective and immediate, leaving the Government only the responsibility for providing this structure financially. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Climate Base Act was passed by a very large majority and was marked by a spirit of political consensus, in which there was the ability to resolve differences for a greater cause, which is climate action. [[PSD applause.]] Now, it's time for you to be consistent and act. The Government and the Assembly of the Republic can no longer safeguard the operation of the instruments that we define as priority. We have to move forward. Let us hope that the Socialist Party and the other parties will make this initiative possible and that we will be available to, as a specialist, clean up aspects and make contributions that they may have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u79	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The environment may not be a flag that stirs in times of election campaign, but that quickly fades into the foam of the days, especially after the elections. Today, the NAP signs, here in plenary, a year of climate law, a year that has passed and in which the only thing we see are advances that do not come out of paper. In practice, we are closer to the point of no return and little or nothing has been done to anticipate the goals of decarbonization and mitigation of climate change or to adapt the territory. So, we're not going there. But let's take examples. The Climate Bases Act imposes on the Government an eight-measure schedule until 1 February this year, important measures such as the end of palm oil on fuels, carbon budgets, the sustainability of public buildings, a climate action portal, the limitation of deep sea mining, green taxation or the review of taxonomic principles. But all these measures were left in the drawer by the Government and the absolute majority. The Climate Bases Act also requires Parliament to create an advice for climate action, by resolution, and not by bill, Mr. With all due respect, let us look at what the letter of the Basics of Climate Law says, until the PSD delayed to come to this debate and both the PSD and the other political forces have been asking for postponements, in relation to the draft resolution presented by the NAP in September last year, and we are only now discussing this clearly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u81	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u82	The Council is, in fact, essential for us to have, independently, a scrutiny of the implementation of the Climate Bases Act, with rigour and compliance with budgetary documents and public policies with climate change mitigation goals. We must also not fail to mention that the climate clock continues to spin unstoppable. We are less than seven years from the non-return point and failing the requirements of climate law is to fail in the guarantee of the right that all and all have a stable climate and whose emergency is recognized in the Climate Bases Act itself. But more importantly, it is to fail in law and to ensure that all young people, without exception, and future generations have a stable climate and do not have an ever heavier, climate-related bill. That is why, today, the NAP wants Parliament's will to be met, expressed by a large majority at the time of the adoption of the climate law, thus requiring the government to fulfil the bill of charges but also that there may be instruments, such as green bonds, among other financial instruments, that allow climate change to be mitigated and not only greenwashing policies. There is a political will that we can make the consensus effort that has been made, including in the differences that may exist between the concepts of draft resolution or draft law, so that this House approves a climate action council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u83	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two studies that should reflect all policymakers on environmental matters. The first is on the European carbon market and the consequence. The conclusion, said by the study by the Carbon Market Watch, is that in the last 10 years — and I will say slowly, so that there is no doubt about the figures — 50 billion euros have been the subject of misuse of the European carbon market space for Europe's major pollutants.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u85	The biggest polluter is the Left Block! It's always polluting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u86	Therefore, the direct and obvious conclusion of this study is that pollution compensates and the European carbon market gave 50 million reasons to demonstrate that this compensation was fair. For us, it was absolutely unfair, but for the market, it was fair to these polluters. The second study says that 90% of global carbon compensation projects have been ineffective or have even increased the emission of harmful gases to our environment. For this reason, the two pillars used by the Socialist Party to base all its proposal which today launches the debate are denied and run by scientific evidence. The European carbon market does not work and has benefited the large polluters. Carbon compensation projects don't work and they're a mess, which gives some consciences to be calmer, but they've done bad to the environment. So, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, when he says that the great walks start sometimes with a small step, he knows that, in order to be true, he has to walk in the right direction. If not, it's even further away from the goal. And that is exactly what the PS brings to our debate: it is that we are even further away from the objective of having a change in our economy and in our productive structure that is more capable of dealing with climate change. Let us see what this Government of the Socialist Party has done, even last year, with the money from the Environment Fund. Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro says that we have to respond to the needs of the interior, to that interior that is forgotten and then the fires go there and take our forest. Mr President, who has recently benefited from nearly EUR 25 million in support of large energy consumers for the money from the Environment Fund? It could serve to change the production structure, but it serves to perpetuate the same bad practices. It is EUR 25 million for the same cellulose companies that, in addition to helping to disorder the territory and promote eucalyptus in our forest, the direct result of which is to increase the danger of forest fire, are the beneficiaries of the policies of the Socialist Party Government. So when the PS tells us that they are here to defend the environment and, therefore, they propose to introduce a national version of the carbon market, the answer is simple and the new generations must hear it: what the Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party are saying is that they want to give the market your future, they want to deliver to the profit of the big polluters your future,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u87	Don't be demagogues!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u88	... they want the public money, which could serve to review the functioning of the economy, to be delivered to those who have already profited from pollution, in the past, and will continue to profit from pollution in the future. This, for us, is unacceptable, and we will fight this choice of the Socialist Party, because we believe that being a friend of the environment is not just beating your hand in your chest, as big checks are delivered to large polluters. It is actually to defend the new generations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u89	What a demagogy! The eucalyptus don't capture carbon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u90	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that we have left for this debate under the premise that we intend to achieve carbon neutrality, a noble goal, assuming that the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere effectively causes the increase of the average temperature on Earth. However, contrary to the majority of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen here, we cannot ride the wave of climate change being something right now. They have always existed and will always exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u92	We're negationists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u93	What we are available to debate and review is the role of man in this process. But, of course, all the proposals under discussion today, national and international deliberations and agreements signed need clarification of the methodology. We define these goals based on which models, in particular? Why does science, which has always pointed out so many alternative ways, dare not question political power in this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u95	And why does political power condition the financing of investigations, through the narrative determined by global agendas left-handed? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Why do we have to choose the path of alarmism and not the path of wisdom? And yes, I must speak of wisdom, because the gentlemen who intend to save the world now are the same as they did nothing to save the interior of the country. They have not prevented the depopulation of the interior. They want to save the climate, but they have failed to guarantee territorial cohesion. They pushed people into the big cities, into the consumer society that they criticize, and emptied the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u97	They destroyed our forest. They suffocate our farmers, especially the small and medium-sized farmers. They have made life in the Community and small means absolutely unsustainable. Years and years of listening to this climate box, then we will arrive at 2023 and you will finally discover that the trees capture CO2 and begin now to want to finance forest projects in view of these purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u99	The forest and the reforestation of the territory should have been the priority in the mission that you have chosen and defined. If you, instead of wanting to control science, were available to listen to it, you would know that the forests are carbon sinks par excellence and we would not have left the same votes for abandonment and destruction, summer after summer, with fires. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We would not have demonized producers and made investment in native species less and less viable. More, Mr. Prime Minister even announced that we are going to Chile to fight fires. We would have - we would focus on preventing and combating our fires here in Portugal. However, and why do we talk about carbon neutrality, it is also important to ask: when did you return the word to the Portuguese and ask what kind of energy transition the Portuguese wanted in view of these objectives? When did you provide them with information—and information that is not based on your campaigns of dramatization and misinformation? It is not enough to impose a forced transformation of consumption habits, it is not enough to say that we want a fair transition, because it matters to ask: for whom is this transition fair? There are industries to close, there are workers to lose jobs and, above all, consumers only see their energy bill to increase, year by year. We pay the highest energy prices in history. For this reason, it is fair to ask: has this economic model changed in the name of justice, but to whom has this justice come? For this reason, and because this introduction is already long, we recognize that the carbon market has been a means of reducing emissions and that extending the spectrum to the volunteerism of more and private companies can effectively contribute to the defined objectives. However, the transaction of credits cannot serve as a false environmental concern and legitimise that certain companies, with little effective responsibility for sustainability, wash their faces and hands, due to the economic power they have towards other smaller companies. In conclusion, I would like to say that these proposals are late and we regret that the concern, now socialist, can only be driven by the desire to raise more taxes to Portuguese taxes and businesses. Nothing has been done in support of technological transformation, nothing has been done in view of more efficient production and the goals that you have set. I conclude by saying that the arrival says 'yes' to the preservation of the environment and natural resources and to energy sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u101	What we say 'no' is the perversion of ecomarxism. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u102	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About a year ago, an oil company launched an ad that said: ‘ Drives neutral carbon— while driving, we compensate for carbon emissions from its supplies through projects around the world. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u104	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u105	Tens of sponsored articles, together with advertisements, pass two messages. The first is that consumers, individuals, are responsible for emissions causing climate change, exempting the capitalist mode of production from these responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u107	The second is that consumers can decide, through their consumption options, to clear their consciences, that is, of course, if they are to supply in that oil that will be responsible for compensating CO2.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u108	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u109	Well, in June 2022, an article was published in Bloomberg with the title « BP pays Mexican rural workers a ninaria for the preferred Wall Street climate solution », revealing the social and environmental problems caused by this type of voluntary mechanisms. This is the major problem of the logic of emissions compensation from market instruments. The "Wall Street's preferred climate solution" is the solution the PS has here to present, which wants to import into the national territory and which, in fact, does not solve anything, on the contrary, aggravates the problems. In the European Union, the carbon credit transaction scheme was responsible for an increase in emissions, because market, supply and demand mechanisms were subject to lowering the price to be paid in order to pollute and emit CO2. Also in Australia, projects that intended to regenerate forests to absorb carbon dioxide, to which hundreds of millions of dollars were allocated, ended up being responsible for the decline in tree cover. And the timing of this discussion to the Socialist Party was wrong, since, on January 18, 2023, two weeks ago, an investigation came out of a consortium of journalists, with the participation of The Guardian and Die Zeit, which reveals that more than 90% of the carbon compensations of the tropical forest are useless, and are talking precisely about the voluntary carbon standards. The CFP rejects emissions trading across the board. The BE project provides for measures that attack the purchase and sale of emissions, but only when they have been assigned free of charge. In our view, we need to abandon all the mechanisms that put on the market the solution to combat climate change, regardless of whether or not they have been allocated free of charge. We defend, yes, that there are quotas and targets per country with a specific policy, taking into account historical emissions, their development phase, which must be respected by all countries, and not any mechanism for awarding marketable licences that enhance speculation, do not solve and even aggravate the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u111	In Portugal we need to encourage national production to shorten production/consumption cycles. We need to encourage more quality public transport at low prices, instead of telling people that if they put gasoline in the A pump, in the B pump or in the C charging station, the emission must be offset from the other side of the world. We need to combat programmed obsolescence; we need economic planning according to the objectives of development, sovereignty, rational use of resources to reduce emissions and respect for the environment. We need everything, less than the false solution, so that it's Wall Street's favorite and that PS here proposes: capitalism is not green! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u112	To speak in the debate, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u113	Mr President, if it is true that market solutions alone do not solve the problems that the market has created, it is not wrong to say that the State and the public authorities can create markets, markets, which have a virtuous dimension, in order to try to solve the problems that other markets have created. But we cannot postpone the resolution of the problem of climate change until we have our perfect economic system, the one we dream about, and we will probably continue to dream about. The planet has to be saved now, with solutions for now. That is also why, when the Minister for Environment and Climate Action tells us that we are going to have a voluntary carbon market, he is telling us very little or almost nothing, because the devil is in the details. It is clear that carbon markets, as they now exist, create perverse incentives that make polluters not only pay what they are supposed to pay, but pay less because they buy licences with which they end up paying less taxes. Therefore, this is legislation which, if discussed with wide participation, if you have a demanding work to control market vices, can give us anything good. For now, it's still a hand full of nothing and nothing else.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u114	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during the morning, the Government has put in public consultation its project for the voluntary carbon market, knowing perfectly well that we would have this debate here today. I don't think it's the best institutional practice, but what's worth is that I was still awake and so I spent the morning reading it. And, as sometimes the government even succeeds, I was pleased enough, noting that the proposal even follows more the principles of the Liberal Initiative project — which will be discussed in committee — than the principles of the Socialist Party project itself. [[PCP laughter.]] As we know, the mandatory carbon market in Europe covers only about 40 % of European emissions, especially those resulting from energy production and heavy industry. However, and yet more and more, companies in various sectors of the economy voluntarily seek to leave their brand and show consumers who also want to meet the goals of carbon neutrality and sustainability. Therefore, in several countries, the voluntary carbon market has developed, where companies — as has already been explained several times today — can buy carbon credits to other actors who can compensate for their emissions through the development of various projects, from the reforestation of the bet on renewable energies and even the recovery of the sea and the coasts, as carbon smelters. The major obstacles to the development of this market are related to two factors, which are already partly announced today, up to the last intervention: on the one hand, credibility, because there are still few States to have a transparent record and also fragmentation, because the certification criteria for these actions are still developing. In principle, we are in favour of creating a legal framework conducive to the development of the voluntary carbon market, promoting the development of our interior, our sea and our biodiversity. But we should not do so with excessive regulations and controls, as the PS Parliamentary Group proposes, because it already wants to create another national entity only for this, but, fortunately, it seems that the government has studied a little more about it and does not want to. In our project, the principles that we follow are simple: knowing that the European Union — even in the recommendations it has given a few months ago — will develop its own Community certification mechanism, we can limit ourselves to recognizing the various international certifications that already exist, rather than internalizing a task for which we have no resources, we still have little know-how, and that would eventually just shut down the future Portuguese voluntary market from European and world markets. We just need a system for registering transactions on the market that confers credibility and trust on companies, waiting for the European Commission to move forward with its own certification system. This would be the practical, effective and expeditious solution, and that is what we put forward in the proposal. However, we will not make any projects impossible—as we hope, too, that they do not prevent ours—that they promote the creation of this market in Portugal, so important for environmental sustainability. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u116	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u117	Mr. President: We have taken part in these climate debates in a spirit of global openness to the world, more and less with ideology. I understand that there is the temptation of the PCP, of wanting to solve the problems all inside the house and I bet that China is already full of fear that they will call there saying that Portugal is sending it down the emissions... I don't see that happening, but... [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] This needs global solutions and, in these solutions, there are defects that we must recognize. We know that there is greenwashing — we know the stories; we know that this was not really a great trigger for investment in decarbonisation; we know that there are industries, such as cement and steel that continue to pollute a lot; that renewables have not been financed particularly by carbon markets; but there is a virtue that no one denies: that today there is a carbon price in the world, that carbon is expensive and has a price. [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] This is a achievement that, many years ago, when this was dreamed, no one knew that it was going to have cheap solar energy, nuclear with problems... but, I repeat, there is a carbon price and, yes, it is a great achievement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u118	What a great achievement! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u119	As regards the regulation of these markets, we can respond to the defects we recognize. As for greenwashing, we can answer with integrity, we can define an integrity carbon credit, we can look at the work of the United Nations and define an integrity carbon credit. And we can certify these credits with technology, because if we are able to monitor all the square meters of the planet today, I think it won't be difficult, with artificial intelligence, with blockchain and other technologies, which have already been mentioned here, to certify these credits. to investment, we could respond with incentives, agree prices—if they are national prices, if they are European, if they are global—, encourage all solutions, the natural base ones, such as the forest, and also the sea, that the government has forgotten, and the technologies, that the government has also forgotten. Finally, to deal differently with what is different, always with more benefits than with more political leadership, involving companies, municipalities, citizens who have been outside, who already exchange credits when it comes to complying with the law, but here the challenge is to do it voluntarily. It is the PSD's will to make this discussion, and we therefore welcome the initiatives that go far beyond that. Mr President, what I am going to say now is a bit of a common place today, but in fact only the government is going to ruin all this because it saw the opportunity here to do what it should have done in the forests — and it has never done again — that it has locked everything down in the command of its public institutes and, above all, ignored Parliament all, including its parliamentary group, which had a positive project, but a Parliament which has given an example of parliamentary cooperation, which is irreprehensible in terms of climate. It is therefore unfortunate, but we reaffirm that we are very available to do a good job in this area, because it is a good job to combat climate change. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u120	To speak in the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There was an exciting moment of debate, when the Liberal Initiative told the Socialist Party that it was liberal and did not know, almost at the same level as the intervention of Mr. Deputy of the Arrival, who said "I am a negationist, but I do not mean". However, I ask a very direct question to the Socialist Party, even following the intervention of the PSD Member : carbon has a price and this price, in Portugal - we are told by studies - has served not for polluting companies to revise their production form, but to move to the cost of essential goods such as cement, electricity and energy, EUR 731 million. Now, at the time when inflation is firing, when we know that prices also rise, because the carbon market pushes it over people, I ask the Socialist Party that the solution is to have even more prices on people, as this proposal provides, to ensure that, in fact, everything remains in the same and that the major polluters are not called to their responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u122	To close the debate, Mr Miguel Costa Matos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The climate emergency is a daily evidence—in the floods, in the droughts, in the fires—is happening much more quickly than we expected and with an intensity that we only expected to be 60 years from now. We have already exceeded five of the turning points, the non-return points, which feed on themselves and climate chaos. Today, we are even discussing an essential instrument for combating climate change: the voluntary carbon market. And there seems to be some confusion in some of the gentlemen. Members, because they seem to be putting all the problems of the regulated carbon market, which has been regulated, on the voluntary carbon market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, capitalism is not green, but that is why it is necessary for the State to intervene and say that the logic of profit has to override the logic of the planet. This is what these projects are about! The carbon price was even the key for coal plants to be closed nine years in advance, compared to the original deadline. So we don't have time to waste, we're actually going to use carbon markets, carbon prices to penalize those who pollute and invest in nature, in sewers, in carbon removal. But the gentlemen. Do Members see any inconvenience in supporting the small farmer, supporting investment in the forest? Oh, my God! What's the matter? Or do you only care about them when it's right for you? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is unfortunate that some parties want to amplify climate action by throwing out an instrument of this nature. He has faults, yes, but they have to be corrected and we cannot rule out this instrument. Other parties dragged their projects to create an advice for climate action. The PS also has its project and, yes, we will have the opportunity—as we have done with the Climate Bases Act—to involve everyone in the construction of this important body for monitoring and evaluating climate policy. But we have much more to do: if in a year we can develop a vaccine against covid, we can make Portugal not have the most expensive electricity in Europe, but one of the cheapest, so now we must be able to do more to deal with this urgency as well. And actually, this year, we all failed. Parliament is missing, in all its commitments, because only now will we begin to comply with the advice for climate action ; many municipalities and regions are missing, which have not yet begun to make the municipal plans for climate action ; and, without prejudice to having suffered the greatest energy crisis of the last 50 years, the government has much to do, although at the moment it is the only one who has already worked with the pilot of the green budget in the State budget for 2023, which we have only presented a few months ago. We therefore associate ourselves with urgency and do not miss the call! It's time to get everyone involved in climate action! It's time to build the voluntary carbon market! It's time to comply with the Basics of Climate Law! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded point 3 of our agenda. We refer to point 4, which is that of the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 367 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amend the Civil Procedure Code, clarifying the revision of foreign administrative decisions and 499 / XV / 1. a (L) — Admits the divorce and separation of property to non-resident foreign citizens married under Portuguese law and whose national law does not recognize this marriage. To present the draft law of the IL, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival of a foreign citizen in Portugal is a moment of hope, but it is often also a time of difficulty. With hope for a better life, a safer life, with more opportunities—it is basically the manifestation of an entrepreneurial spirit—but it is also a moment of difficulty, a life run by bureaucratic obstacles imposed by the Portuguese State on these citizens. The Liberal Initiative today presents this bill, because we know that many of the citizens arriving in Portugal have serious difficulties in recognizing the decisions made by the administrative authorities of their country of origin. Having arrived in Portugal, these citizens are too often forced to resort to courts, to initiate judicial proceedings, with all the costs associated with them, only to be recognized in Portugal the administrative decisions that were already in force in their country of origin. In our explanatory statement, we refer specifically to the community of Brazilian citizens who have brought us to their difficulties with the recognition of divorces or de facto unions held in their countries. But it is not only the Brazilian community that faces these difficulties. The law we want to change applies to Brazilian citizens, but it also applies to citizens of Morocco, Japan, Australia, or Ukraine. at this time, where Portugal is a shelter for so many citizens, especially for Ukrainian citizens, and we are concerned about giving them living conditions, it is also important to look at the recognition of their legal acts and all the bureaucratic, legal or financial barriers that we put before them so that they can be integrated into our community. We are fully aware that this is a subject of high technical complexity, and it has, in fact, led to a wide discussion in our courts, with decisions in various ways. We hope that, after this debate, there will be parliamentary consensus so that, in this legislative process, it will result in the elimination of these difficulties faced by foreign citizens arriving in our country. The Liberal Initiative will be available, within the spirit of the project, to welcome the improvements that may result, always for the sake of the unburocratization and simplification of people's lives. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u126	To present the legislative initiative of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u127	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : The rights we here legislate must be able to be applied to specific people, under the penalty of being emptied. And it's a situation like that we're talking about here. Portugal, of course, recognizes the right to marriage and divorce. It recognizes the right to marriage, for example, of people of the same sex, marriage, that which is not recognized in other countries. It happens that there is a situation that has become more and more frequent, and that concerns not only these cases, but also others, which is that of the people who marry in Portugal, but then they cannot divorce in the country where they live, because that country does not even recognise their marriage, nor can they divorce in Portugal. Attempts made from known and reported cases tell us that they cannot divorce either in conservatory or even in court. This is the situation which the Free will intends to resolve, and through a debate which was very constructive in 1. the Commission also identified other subsidiary problems relating to this situation, such as that of national citizens who, not residing in national territory, also often have problems accessing divorce, or couples made up of a national citizen and a foreign citizen who may also have the same problem. Now, the doctrine divides, as lawyers often like to say, because there are those who say this is a problem of the law, there are those who say that this is a problem of interpretation of the law and there is still a European regulation, Regulation (EU) 2019 / 1111, which seeks to address some of these issues, not realizing how far the problem we have been dealing with can be solved. This is a problem of concrete, real people, that we should try to solve. in this sense, I would like to say from now on that the Free will will call on the committee without voting on this project to be able to increase and deepen the debate that we have already had today and that we can find the right solution not only for couples of foreign citizens but also for national citizens living abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u128	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since these are projects that affect different aspects, address-CL-i - them separately. With regard to the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, I would like to begin by saying that the review and confirmation of foreign sentences is a necessary judicial action so that decisions made by foreign courts can be effective in Portugal. Article 978. the Civil Procedure Code stipulates that : « Without prejudice to what is found to be established in treaties, conventions, European Union regulations and special laws, no decision on private rights, given by a foreign court, shall be effective in Portugal, irrespective of the nationality of the parties, without being reviewed and confirmed », setting out the requirements of Article 980. the debate that divides jurisprudence is whether the above principles apply not only to foreign sentences but also to decisions of administrative authorities. Through the introduction of a standard that the tenderers classify as interpretative, the Liberal Initiative seeks to eliminate the legal requirement of recourse to special review and confirmation of foreign judgment in cases of recognition of administrative decisions of foreign countries not covered by the 1970 Hague Convention, or by the Brussels II Regulation, such as Brazil, the size and impact on legal trade. On the project of the Liberal Initiative it is worth bringing here the doubts raised by the Supreme Council of the Magistrature, which we support. In addition to formal questions, it makes sense to submit sentences, which are given by sovereign bodies, to a special process of review and confirmation and, at the same time, exempt from this procedure decisions made by mere administrative entities, i.e. if it is not a matter of jeopardizing the principles of the international public order of the Portuguese State, which cannot, even in the multi-localised legal-private relations, give rise to, unless there are treaties or conventions on the subject. Therefore, as the Superior Council points out, we believe that the most appropriate legal solution to the problem that motivates the draft law of the Liberal Initiative would be the conclusion of a bilateral convention with Brazil, defining which decisions in particular would dispense this recognition. The Bill No. 499 / XV / 1. a, of the Free, aims to confer jurisdiction on the Portuguese courts for divorce and separation of persons and goods of non-resident foreign citizens, married under Portuguese law, whose legislation of their respective countries of origin does not recognize marriage, as is the case with same-sex marriage, i.e. seeking to overcome a situation in which, in practice, the Portuguese State recognizes the right to marry, but does not divorce, leaving these persons without the possibility of divorce, not in Portugal, nor in their country of origin, which, of course, does not recognise marriage. Despite the objectives of the initiative deserve our agreement, the proposed solutions do not seem to us at the moment the most appropriate ones, so we commit ourselves to contributing to a legal formula that serves the purposes in question. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today legislative initiatives that have several weaknesses, and some of them are identical, from the very great inconsistencies between what is in the explanatory statement of both and the solutions that are then presented, which, in fact, have nothing to do with each other. In addition, and in particular with regard to the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, says the Liberal Initiative that there are obstacles to the recognition of foreign sentences and that this creates obstacles to the development of the life of Brazilian citizens. First mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The law cannot be made for private citizens of a particular country. The law is general and abstract and therefore this is the first mistake and the first criticism. Second error: the bill is strange to say that it wants to introduce an interpretative standard in the Code of Civil Procedure, when, in fact, we see that it brings two new solutions, it does not come to interpret anything. In fact, in our view, there is also nothing to interpret, but I ask: why do this and do not actually present two solutions, what did the Liberal Initiative want to do? Oh, my God! In our view, the Liberal Initiative wanted to present two new solutions: first, to exempt the revision, in the Portuguese legal order, of the declaration of divorce by agreement, made in Brazil. When divorce is decreed by sentence, revision by the Portuguese courts is required; when it occurs by declaration, an administrative entity, for the Liberal Initiative should not be the subject of revision. That is to say, for what has a much greater scrutiny and much greater legal certainty, there is a need for a review by a Portuguese court and for what has a much smaller scrutiny no longer for an examination by the Portuguese court. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, both the sentence and the writing of divorce, which exists in Brazil, when, by mutual consent, they have, of course, the same legal value: they are decisions on private rights that must be treated in the same way, and so have been, by the Portuguese courts. The PSD cannot agree with mechanisms that remove the legal certainty of the foreign court review process. With regard to the other solution proposed by the Liberal Initiative — and which therefore also has nothing to interpret — which is that a firm writing of union in Brazil is equivalent to a divorce sentence, with due respect, does not make any sense. And it makes no sense, of course, because the stable union regime, which is the regime that exists in Brazil, is not a regime similar to the de facto union that exists in Portugal. And I give just one example: the stable union regime in Brazil confers successive rights; in Portugal, this does not exist. Whether or not to recognise the de facto union in Portugal has its own process under the Civil Procedure Code and that it should continue to apply. Therefore, we see no reason to make this match, which has serious problems from the point of view of substantive law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the bill of the Free Party, in our view, part of a wrong claim, which is that the Portuguese State gives the right to marry and does not give the right to divorce. This, Mr Rui Tavares, is not true! Who gets married in Portugal, if the marriage is not recognized in their country of nationality, also does not need divorce, because it is not married there and therefore does not have to be divorced.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u132	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u133	That's not the point, but it's a fragility. Anyone who is married in Portugal, Member of Parliament, of course, may divorce in Portugal, either a divorce without the consent of the other spouse, and follows by court, be a divorce with the consent of the other spouse, and follows by Code of Civil Registry or conservatory. Thus, there is no question of incompetence here, as is reflected in the draft law of the Free, but there is a huge confusion between the rules of international competence and internal competence, and the draft law of the Free is intended to introduce a new solution of international competence, in a civil rule of internal competence, which, from a systematic point of view, is completely wrong. Moreover, for the PSD, with regard to international competence, we understand that the solution exists and is duly covered by the Civil Procedure Code. As far as the forum of the territory is concerned, in the particular case, there is also a solution, either by means of the very article which the honourable Member refers well to in the draft law, or by the application of the other procedural rules. For these reasons, we cannot follow these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u134	For an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law of the Liberal Initiative, which we are discussing today, aims to eliminate the legal requirement of recourse to the special review and confirmation of foreign judgment provided for in the Civil Procedure Code, when administrative decisions on private rights adopted in States not covered by the 1970 Hague Convention or by the Brussels II Regulation. The authors of the initiative exemplify with the different interpretations of the Portuguese courts regarding the production of effects, in the case of divorce or stable union established in Brazil. On these cases, there is jurisprudence that supports the need for foreign administrative decisions on private rights, which need to be reviewed in order to produce effects in Portugal. Another current case law argues that such decisions are not subject to review and confirmation in Portugal. The purpose that tenderers wish to achieve with this initiative is realized by adding an article to the Civil Procedure Code, establishing that the need for review does not apply to decisions of foreign administrative authorities on private rights. In view of this legal uncertainty as to the interpretation of Article 978. that of the Civil Procedure Code, the proposers consider it necessary to draw up an interpretative standard. To this end, they propose to establish a legal solution which eliminates the legal requirement to use the special review and confirmation of foreign judgment provided for in that Article. On the other hand, the Free Bill aims to protect people who marry other people of the same sex, according to Portuguese law, but who later cannot divorce in the country where they reside, because the same does not recognize equal marriage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u136	But not only!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u137	Regarding the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, the Superior Council of the Magistrate says that the most appropriate legal solution to the problem identified by the legislator would be the conclusion of a bilateral convention with Brazil. It seems to us that the situation of Brazilian citizens is the main concern of the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, in view of the abolition of the exequatur in the decisions that the grantor parties understood to be in force in the legal order of the counterpart without the priorness of the verification of any requirements. This solution, referred to lastly, seems to us the only possible solution and is certainly preferable to the proposal by the Liberal Initiative, of introducing a new standard in the Civil Procedure Code, which is allegedly an interpretative standard but whose innovative character is indisputable. Moreover, what the case law cited by the Liberal Initiative allows us to realize is that a solution such as this will further facilitate the granting of Portuguese nationality to foreign citizens, in particular Brazilian citizens, because it ceases to be subject to the limit of what can be requested in a review action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u139	As for the draft law of the Free, we do not have the notion of the premence of the solution proposed here. We know the number of marriages between people of the same sex, held in 2021 — 549, according to the explanatory statement of the bill - but we know nothing about the number of divorces in the same year nor in previous years. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u140	The answer to your question is your question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u142	Madam President: We have two projects here, both relating to the Civil Procedure Code, but they are actually different in their content. With regard to the project of the Liberal Initiative, which aims to adapt a new article 978 to the Code of Civil Procedure. o -A, in order to exclude confirmation and revision by Portuguese courts of foreign administrative decisions on private rights, invoking that this puts bureaucratic barriers — which are not bureaucratic, because they are judicial — to free movement. The objectives can even be laudable, and we do not question this, but in fact, the draft law suffers from numerous inequities, lack of rigour and even substantive and formal problems. First of all, by simply eliminating revision and confirmation, it is no longer clear what procedure — if any — would be subject to these administrative decisions to be in force in the Portuguese legal system, given that we might be talking about administrative decisions that call into question the public order and fundamental values of the Portuguese State. Some sort of procedure would have to be. On the other hand, as has already been mentioned here and contained in the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, we would be doing something incoherently, up to the axiological point of view of the legal order, which was as follows: we had a need for revision and confirmation for foreign sentences, while, in order to — let me say so — just administrative decisions, we would not require any kind of confirmation to be in force in our legal order, which is a problem, exactly at the level of values to be safeguarded. It is mentioned in the explanatory statement that what is at issue here is largely related to administrative decisions relating to Brazil's stable unions. It is true that Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz said that this is not only the case of Brazil, but, in fact, this is the statement of reasons. Now, in this regard, there is a case-law uniformization judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice which, in relation to the issues of Brazil, already resolves, saying that the public scriptures of Brazilian stable union are not subject to this review. In addition — a brief note of an even more technical nature, as if it were not all technical already — this is not, in fact, an interpretative norm and it has, in fact, a feedback which, in this case, I do not know how it would be applied. Therefore, I would say that this is a project that appears unnecessary in relation to Brazil and that is inconvenient in these consequences. As regards the Bill No 499 / XV / 1. a (L), this is part of a problem that I do not think exists, on the contrary, I think there is the problem of people who, being foreign citizens, married in Portugal — for example, people of the same sex — but who, in the place where they usually live, cannot dissolve their marriage for the mere reason of marriage is not even recognized. We believe that there is indeed a problem that needs to be solved in order to solve the situation of these people. And it is not said that, if marriage is not recognized, it does not hurt either, because people who have the right to marry should also have the right to dissolve that marriage. If, in fact, the solution must change to a standard of internal jurisdiction of the courts, Article 72. I do not think that, perhaps the best solution, in line with a very recently received opinion — already today — of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, would eventually be to move into the standard of international competence, in accordance with Article 62. the Civil Procedure Code. It is true that the Code of Civil Procedure will eventually entail an interpretation resulting from the articulation of various precepts, which, if all interpreted in the same sense, could solve this situation. However, I do not have this interpretation as linear and I do not even think it is done by all the courts. That is why the problem exists, and that is why we think that it should eventually be solved in another precept. However, it has already been stated here by Mr Rui Tavares that there would be openness to this work. It seems to us that the problem exists, that must be solved and that the technical solution will be found-CL. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u143	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two diplomas in debate and, at the beginning of the discussion, I would like to say that we generally follow both ambitions. But to say this is different from saying that we follow the legal solutions that both bills present in this context. I'm going on the sidelines, so I can have a more detailed intervention on each of them. The Liberal Initiative aims to solve a problem that, although it has been presented today as affecting a wider population than only Brazilian citizens who want to recognize their divorce in Portugal, in practice, in cases of which we have knowledge, applies to this universe of people. Admiting that the claim is fair, because there should be an equalization in the recognition between what exists in the Brazilian State and what exists in the Portuguese Republic, it is notoriously different to say, from this conclusion, that, for the interpretation of the courts in Portugal now, we must apply it to all and any administrative decisions, and do so automatically, because the confidence and knowledge we have in the Brazilian legal order is different from that we have on many other legal orders around the world. From this point of view, this proposal, in these terms, could alert the individual response to Brazilian citizens who want to see their divorce recognised in Portugal, but opens a Pandora box of situations to which we could not respond. Thus, we are available in the specialty to reach a legal solution, and what would make sense—and it has already been said before—is that, in the context of a bilateral agreement between the Portuguese State and the Brazilian State, if it reached a solution to this reality, since we do not doubt the decision on the Brazilian side, that is, it is valid, and is recognized as such, that a divorce by mutual consent can be decided by a public writing. in this sense, what we lack is formal recognition, on the side of here, in national territory. As regards, specifically, the Free Initiative, a number of problems have already been identified, but in fact, it is attempting to find a solution for rainbow families and LGBT rights (Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) as regards divorce. And, yes, I agree at all with Mrs Alexandra Leitão, it is a right which must and can be exercised by the will of the people and which cannot be denied, in fact, is in the Charter of European Rights and in all the European legal system the defense of this claim. It is our understanding—and it has already been said—that there is an interpretation of our Code of Civil Procedure that could lead to this conclusion, but the reality we have is different: there are courts that make this interpretation and there are courts that do not. We can therefore come to a legal solution to ensure that interpretation is unique and that the right to divorce is recognised in the same way as the right to marriage for foreign citizens in Portugal is recognized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u145	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u146	I would like to highlight, and end with this idea, Mr President, that, as has been said, the rules of internal competence do not seem to apply in this context, which would make sense of working on the article of the rules of international competence, but this is a debate for which we have availability in the field of specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u147	We have completed the debate period and we are now closing, and I call on Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u148	Mr President, just a week after the submission of this bill, the Supreme Court of Justice gave a standardized case-law judgment in that decisions from Brazil concerning de facto union do not require judicial review and confirmation in order to be recognised in Portugal. In clarifying the first question raised by Mrs Alma Rivera, regarding our bill, regarding the waiver of the decision review process, this is precisely what the Supreme Court of Justice defends, but also the Court of Port Relations, which we intend to caution. The Supreme Court considers that the public declaration of stable union is not susceptible to review and confirmation by the Portuguese courts in accordance with Articles 978. the following of the Civil Procedure Code. And our project is aligned with this understanding, because it withdraws from the scope of the article that I referred to the public writings relating to the recognition of stable union. This recognition of the production of effects derives directly from this finding: if the public writing of stable union is not susceptible to review and confirmation by the courts, the production of its effects will have to be safeguarded and secured in a secure manner, by law, under the penalty of its holders cannot see their rights recognized. This law is precisely Article 6. the Civil Registry Code. I also want to say that this project does not apply to court rulings, it applies to administrative decisions, and this needs to be kept in mind. The Supreme Court pointed out that the application of Article 978 is far from being applied. that of the Code of Civil Procedure, and we do not understand that this departure undermines the principles of the international public order of the Portuguese State precisely because these principles are safeguarded by Article 6. the Civil Registry Code. Replying to Mrs.Márcia Passos, who mentioned that this bill only refers to the Brazilian community, I would like to clarify that any Brazilian—and we have contacted many, who have given us knowledge of these problems—to request Portuguese nationality, to deliver their birth certificate where all civil acts, in particular divorces, are upheld. I stress that the draft law of the Liberal Initiative does not run out in the Brazilian immigrant community in Portugal and that this interpretation does not result from our explanatory statement, so I invite you to read the paragraph which says: « A legal solution is thus enshrined that eliminates the legal requirement of recourse to the special review and confirmation of foreign sentence provided for in Article 978. that of the Civil Procedure Code, in cases of recognition of administrative decisions of foreign countries not covered by the 1970 Hague Convention or by the Brussels II Regulation, as is the case with Brazil. In other words, our bill does not apply only to Brazilian citizens — this was the example we gave, because it is the type of situation that has come to us the most — it applies, as explained in my initial speech, to other citizens, especially the citizens of Australia, Morocco and Ukraine. We must therefore seek another type of decision that may be covered by this understanding and we must also fight for the application of this understanding to citizens of other countries. As I said, control mechanisms are planned and properly guarded in the Civil Registry Code. We recognize, however, that there are technical improvements to be made in this bill, so we are available to, in the field of specialty, dialogue and find these same improvements, deepening and improving control mechanisms, always in favour of a legal regime that is less bureaucratic, more open to the world and more accessible to citizens arriving in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u149	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u150	I shall conclude, Madam President. The Liberal Initiative is available to resolve the difficulties these citizens face. The question that remains to be answered is: and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u151	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We thus conclude the fourth item on the agenda and move on to the fifth point, which consists of the assessment of Bill No. 464 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Revoking the decreed increase in toll rates and limiting its update to the value corresponding to 2022 ( generally ), together with Resolution Projects Nos 355 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government revise the terms of the Lusoponte PPP, with a view to reducing toll rates and 356 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government freeze toll rates and draft Law No 502 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By renegotiating public-private partnerships contracts in the road sector ( generally ). To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP proposed that this debate and this legislative initiative be scheduled for the Assembly of the Republic to have on the agenda the answer to the specific problem of populations who are brutally penalized with the tolls on the bridges and motorways of this country. It has already been, and is, in a deep sense, unjustifiably the policy that imposes this heaviest burden on workers, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, on productive sectors. It was already, and it is, a genuine national scandal that maintains this ruinous business of road PPPs (public-private partnerships) which, in addition to the direct payment of tolls by users, makes the State pay more than EUR 1000 million annually to the economic groups of dealers. At the beginning of this year, however, the Government has entered into force as the Government's option the biggest increase in tolls in the last 20 years. The blackmail operation started in July last year. at the time, António Pires de Lima, former Minister of the PSD / CDS government, current President of the Executive Commission of Brisa, once public, called « If the government does nothing, the increase in tolls will be what corresponds to inflation. Do not keep on seeking. ” The other dealers aligned with the PPPs, including Lusoponte, and threatened for months with the 10 % « inevitable » increases, they said, despite the maintenance costs of the infrastructures they did not have in any way increased 10 %. When it was necessary to ensure the limitation of these increases by ensuring that they would not be greater than those in the previous year, as the CFP has been proposing, the PS Government not only imposed an increase for users of 4, 9 % as it assumed that it would finance concessionaires with public resources at least EUR 140 million, in addition to EUR 1, 4 billion currently in PPP contracts. In practice, this decision guarantees the concessionaires a revenue equivalent to an increase in the price of 7, 7 % — and not 4, 9 % — which far exceeds the increase in operational costs inherent in the maintenance and operation of these infrastructures. We want here to draw attention to the demagogy used in the justification for this measure, presenting it - supposedly as a tripartite effort - users, state and concessionaires - when, in fact, the real and only beneficiaries of this decision are the economic groups which hold the concessions. This is just another example of the draft national resources representing so-called public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u153	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u154	If, as the Government says, this decision is a consequence of contracts concluded, such can only hold successive PS and PSD and CDS governments responsible for promoting and promoting PPPs over the years. What is needed is to stop these increases, limited - but not with the last chapter of this endless history - of endless terror! — negotiations, renegotiations, extension of road PPPs. Of course, what is needed is the rescue of concessions from motorways and bridges that, despite being built with public resources, are under the control of private economic groups that exploit them for their benefit. The reversal of the decreed increase and the limitation of the increases for this year from 2023 to a value never greater than that applied in the previous year is required. This is the purpose of this PCP bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. To present Resolution Projects Nos 355 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 356 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time when people feel more and more difficulties due to the brutal increase in the cost of living, driving has become almost a luxury but a luxury very necessary particularly for those who want to move to work. The arrival brings the debate today two draft resolutions that aim to improve the lives of the common Portuguese, those who work and fight daily by receiving miserable wages, those who make all the accounts and which often have to choose between taking the car to work or putting food on the table. The increases in the portages verified at the Vasco da Gama Bridges and April 25 do not make sense and aim only to overload more people living on the south bank and have to come to work in Lisbon. In the right socialist way, in Portugal, it is this: whoever wants to work has to pay to relieve those who don't want to do anything. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I'll tell you about Cristina. Cristina is 35 years old and comes from Seixal. Between fuel, tolls and parking spent monthly, about 250 €. Cristina is the prototype of the young common Portuguese. You have to pay for a car, daily expenses, you receive 1000 € per month and you are still at home of your parents. He's at the parents' house because he can't get out, because the country doesn't give him that chance, because he can't save money to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u157	It was paying Cristina!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u158	I can also give you the example of Samuel. Samuel lives in Alcochete, he is 48 years old, married, two children. Every day passes through the Vasco Bridge of the Range and pays the scandalous value of 3, 05 € toll. More than 3 € to pass a bridge that is paid and more than pay, as the 25th of April. You might ask why Cristina and Samuel don't come from public transport. Cristina still tried to get public transport. I would catch the bus, then the train, but I would get to the subway and... one more strike, two more, three more. When it wasn't a train strike, it was the subway. Buses have no idea what it is to keep hours, careers are few and inadequate in relation to people's needs. He also tried the Transtejo, but the strikes also happened and the failures on the boats are almost daily problem. In total, it was even almost four hours a day that they lost in transport, this on a more or less normal day. Now, these four hours are fundamental for the family, for Cristina to see parents and for Samuel to be with their children, to see them grow up and to be able to educate them properly—yes, because the school teaches and the family educates. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I could give you examples of transport companies and distributors who, too, are victims of obscene toll payments. Our draft resolution aims to combat this injustice that is practised with the residents in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, coming from the south bank, so that they have a lower value at the portage rate, as well as we want the contract with Lusoponte to be revised – let's remember that the construction of the Vasco Bridge of Gama was one of the most ruinous businesses for the Portuguese state. Today there are thousands of cars passing through both bridges, more than 200 000 per day, and annually there are millions, which makes the company also make millions of profits. That is, another reason why taxpayers and companies, at a difficult time, have the right not to pay such absurd values of tolls. But the country is not only Lisbon. In January, after the promise of the Minister of Territorial Cohesion that there were no increases in the tolls, at 0 hours of day 1 were the first to be increased in the vast majority of the country. It was the gift of the New Socialist Year. The word given was not once again an honest word. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In fact, for example, the algae have been waiting, since 2015, for António Costa to fulfill the promise he gave them during the election campaign, which was the abolition of the tolls on the Via do Infante. We have already proposed this in this House, at the time of the discussion of the State budget, a proposal that counted on the vote against the Socialist Party and — imagine! — of the five Members elected by the Algarve.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u159	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u160	I will repeat: the five PS Members elected by the Faro electoral circle voted against the abolition of the tolls in A22. It is still curious that in these new increases of tolls it was precisely the link of Lisbon to the one that increased the most, following the A1 of Lisbon to the Port. With inflation in astronomical values, with families in difficulty to pay loans, houses, cars or even electricity, sometimes without having any way to warm up their homes. With requests for aid to succeed, the middle class being the most affected and almost disappearing, with the increases in bread, gas, telecommunications, transport, with the Government filling the boxes with the VAT rates that it continues to charge, it is up to justice to proceed to the suspension of the tolls, because highways are fundamental for the possibility of going to work and for companies to be able to have less that excessive expenditure. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was no longer enough to have stolen the national roads to the Portuguese, as happened for example in A23, A24 or A25, and now they are being punished with successive increases in tolls, some of them almost obscene. This leads us to make the recommendation that, in the face of this extraordinary situation of enormous economic difficulty of the vast majority of Portuguese families, freeze the payment of tolls at least by the end of 2023, because for us, yes, families, businesses and Portuguese are in the first place. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u161	To submit Bill No. 502 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating and welcoming the CFP on the subject that brings us here, because, in fact, in addition to the tolls, public-private road partnerships are an authentic public money bakery for our country. It is common to hear the Government say that there is no money for zero VAT in the stock of essential goods or that the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) paid by families, in particular by the middle class, is a faraonic expenditure that we cannot afford, but they are no more than subterfuges to hide the lack of political will to adopt measures that reach families rather than arrive at the same ones as usual. It is precisely about a real pharaonic expenditure that we are carrying out today: road PPPs that will cost Portugal nearly EUR 12 billion over the next 20 years, twice as much as the structures associated with these same partnerships. A value that would be perfectly possible to give free passes to more than 2 million young people for 20 years. Only the planned costs of pending litigation in court involving road PPPs at the beginning of this year would increase the costs of welfare and animal protection by 40 times, among so many other examples that we could bring here. Today, we want to put an end to this ice cream of public money and channel the money to where it really needs transport, housing, fighting poverty, among so many other measures. And this can be done precisely through a process of renegotiating road PPP contracts. We want a transparent process, audited by Parliament and civil society and with the technical monitoring of the Public Finance Council. In the 2013 State budget, in the context of an economic crisis, Parliament approved a renegotiation as we propose today. The question we have raised is whether, after 10 years, they do not think it makes sense to undertake a new renegotiation of road PPPs and channel money into structural measures that really help families, companies, instead of measures with discounts on tolls that only encourage an economy dependent on fossil fuels and, worse, on the suspects of the custom, an initiative that will get the government to approve and quickly implement this strategy. I wonder what will then be the PS position, whether the majority will vote against or, in fact, go to meet the needs of the Portuguese and the families of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u163	We're on to the interventions. Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, there are two important issues to be discussed, public-private partnerships and tolls. With regard to PPPs, the Socialist Party and the left clearly have two weights and two measures: when PPPs work, it is better to end them, as in health; when PPPs do not work, it is better to continue, encourage their malfunction and prioritize their negotiation, as in the road sector. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the proposal from the CFP on toll rates, I cannot fail to say that the CFP stated that they constituted a serious problem in the interior and peripheral regions, but the fact is that it approved seven State budgets without raising any opposition whatsoever.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u165	You're so distracted! You've been sleeping for seven years, sir? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u166	We cannot ignore that we live in a country at two speeds, with great regional asymmetries, but there is one thing in which the PSD and PCP agree. I refer to the PSD proposal adopted in this House, with the votes against the Socialist Party, which approved the reduction of toll rates by 50 % for combustion vehicles in the ex-SCUT ( cost-free to users ). [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Government threatened to appeal to the Constitutional Court to prevent the entry into force of this law, saying that it was an irresponsible proposal and that the invoice would go towards the Portuguese. He did not do so in this way, but in order to overturn the law, the government resorted to a file that is harming thousands of Portuguese using the former SCUTs. See the case of A22, which crosses my region, the Algarve, from one end to the other without there being a real alternative. Using a legislative strategy, instead of a 50 % discount on toll rates, the algae are benefiting from a 28 % discount, an average of 28 % instead of the 50 % approved by law. Why? Because the Government of the Socialist Party, in bad faith, revoked all the legislation in 2012 and 2016 and established new rates on which a 50% discount is being applied. [[PSD applause.]] For the PSD, it is priority to look at the country as a whole and promote the competitiveness of our economy, to promote social development and to believe in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u167	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To give only one example in the first half of 2022, Brisa had profits above EUR 90 million, 10% above what happened before the pandemic period. In 2021, it distributed more than EUR 129 million in dividends. What is the question: have the concessionaires increased their workers' wages to the level of inflation? Of course they didn't. Moreover, the levels of interest rates with which dealers are currently confronted are far below those to which the common citizen — those who use his own highways — has to face. The increase in the price of tolls helps to worsen problems that we try to solve every day here. Every day we try to find ways to increase our territorial cohesion and then what we try to solve comes through the window by increasing the cost of tolls, which obviously makes it difficult for people to live within the country. And it increases road insecurity when people stop using highways and start using national roads. Therefore, it is good to see that these policies do not work. We need to combat the dependence on road transport. At this level, we welcome the Government today saying that it wants to move forward to a national billet system. Let us hope that this will enable us to implement rapidly as it has been approved here by the Freedom to Create a National Railway Pass and move forward towards a true multimodal national pass. Finally, we welcome the fact that the CFP has brought this issue to the Assembly of the Republic and we generally follow the objectives of the initiatives presented by the CFP and the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u169	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The assessment of whether or not a particular highway should have a bearing, or the size of that toll, should meet the very clear cost-benefit criteria. These criteria have a great deal to do with whether there are alternatives or not, how much traffic in these motorways and how much traffic in these alternatives exists. Unfortunately, in all the proposals that we see here there has never been a cost-benefit analysis for each highway in relation to the need to have or have no tolls. There will certainly be many tolls that should not exist today, others that, in a cost-benefit analysis, should be maintained, because if they are not the motorists to pay, it will be the taxpayers, but this requires a very clear and very realistic analysis. Road PPPs were a project that was born wrong and should have deserved further political and judicial investigation. It has nothing to do with the model itself, but any model can fail if the goal of creating is someone other than maximizing common well-being. The renegotiations made in the late 1990s with Lusoponte were highly detrimental to the State — in fact, an academic work by Miranda Sarmento and others — and other negotiations followed with other concessionaires also damaged and indebted the State. Having said that, the contracts, unless they prove to be illegal, are to be fulfilled. No country will be able to grow if there is a perception that the State is not a good person and that it can at any time simply breach contracts, impose random nationalizations or launch extraordinary taxes. At the end of the concession, the power-CL will launch a tender and have new contracts, but the contracts that exist, being the good person state, are to comply. It would be much easier for us to come here with populist proposals to freeze toll without a cost-benefit analysis or end concessions, it would be much easier to come promise magic blows to limit the effects of inflation, such as price controls, would be much easier, much more populist and popular, but this is not our DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We have a DNA of responsibility, if we don't promise people something we wouldn't do if we were government and therefore we can't follow the measures proposed here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u171	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We agree with this proposal, we are also in agreement with the generality of the proposals that have been made. There is no reason for the population, especially the population of the interior, to pay the Leonine contracts of the public-private road partnerships that the State did not want to renegotiate, having power to do so—that is the advantage of being the State, which has the power to renegotiate and has the power to make the rules of the game. at this time, the rules of the game allow car users in the interior areas — who use the car to work, who have no alternative — to pay the inflation that dealers do not want to internalize and that they want to see their profits reversed, because they do not even increase the wages of their workers. This is the situation in road concessions such as the situation in many other sectors which are internalizing the increase in prices, which are not reversed in lower prices or higher wages. We have already manifested ourselves according to the freezing of these tolls. In addition, it is the State that is paying the concessionaires for dealers not to increase their tolls, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u173	Don't grow any more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u174	Yes, in order not to increase the tolls, in addition to what has already increased, which shows the state's total inability to find a non-paying answer, to throw money out of the problem. Prices are not controlled, there are no other mechanisms and therefore private companies are compensated for increasing their profits, rather than controlling prices to protect populations. In addition to cancelling the increase in tolls, we found it important for the Tax Authority to stop charging the debts of private dealers. We have already proposed it here and this proposal was rejected by the Socialist Party. We believe it is important that there is a moratorium on which these debts, which are charged by the Tax Authority with interest rates and fines, which then revert to private employees being charged by the Tax Authority. And finally, we have an old struggle for the end of the SCUTs, or the payment of the former SCUTs, which penalises those who have no alternative. A22 is the largest example of a situation of territorial discrimination in which, in part of the territory, in this case in the Algarve, the choice is between the security of having a road with conditions and having to pay or travel without security. It seems to us an unacceptable choice. The State shall ensure the capacity of all persons who wish to be able to operate in safety conditions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u175	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this point on the agenda, we discuss four drafts, two drafts of law, one of the NAP and one of the CFP, and two draft resolutions, both of them of the Arrival. Portugal today, like many countries, is experiencing a problem of inflation. To solve this inflationary crisis, we must take strict, serious measures; we must always be careful about the measures we have taken. It will certainly not be with demagogy or with a breach of contract that we will solve this problem that has so much affected the Portuguese. I just remember the proposal, which many of the parties present in this Chamber have made to withdraw VAT on essential goods, giving as an example Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u177	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u178	Today, no one's talking about this anymore. In Spain, this measure was given as the silver bullet lasted 15 days. It was 15 days until prices were again higher than before, with the value of VAT. [[PCP protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, demagogues and populists can serve good videos for social networks, but they do not serve to solve the problems of either the country or the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u179	It's socialism working!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u180	The PCP project that aims to increase tolls by only 1, 8 % and regulation of public-private partnerships contracts forgets the bad part of history. With regard to the reversal of concessions, it implies, even though for reasons of public interest, paying compensation to the concessionaires. Is this described in the PCP project? No, no, no. In addition, they import to the State all charges incurred with the maintenance operation of the constructed property as well as the transfer to the State of the construction risks. Is this identified in the PCP project? Not either. The good parts are always, the gains are always, the costs, these, never appear. The project of the Arrival aims to revise the terms of the PPP of Lusoponte, with a view to reducing the portage values. Such a review, in accordance with the concession contract, constitutes an amendment to the existing contractual clauses, enables the concessionaire holding the toll revenue to recall the right to submit an application for the financial balance of the contracts in force and their charge of high financial charges to the State. Is this implicit in your project? Not either. It is always planned to win, but it is never planned what would be the costs for the State, the costs for the Portuguese. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] In turn, the NAP project aims to review contracts for public-private partnerships in the road sector. This project compares realities that are not comparable, i.e. compares contractual charges with the assumption of the asset value, as if the PPP charges were intended to pay only one asset to benefits. In fact, the charges with PPPs have not only to do with the temporarily diluted payment of the built asset, but also with the charges incurred with the operation and maintenance of the contract over the years, and with the transfer by private dealers of the risks of construction, financing of traffic, operation and maintenance. For the Socialist Party, this matter, like all others, must always be resolved, but with seriousness and responsibility. The government, in the face of an increase in tolls that would be about 10 %, started negotiations, reducing to half what users will have to endure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u181	They've been putting up with it since day one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u182	We accept that the gentlemen. Members and the parties of this House do not agree. They have, of course, every right to disagree and to present alternatives, but in these alternatives they have to tell the truth, they have to say what the costs are for the country, and not just show the gains.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u183	I could have asked and I answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u184	They do not count on the Socialist Party to engage in false negotiations, such as those that took place in 2015, in a PSD government and the CDS, when they presented and announced a reduction in the value paid by PPPs to private individuals, forgetting that this negotiation disbanded privates from a set of obligations, namely maintenance, by passing these obligations to the IP ( Infrastructures Portugal, SA ), making the value of the road kilometer more expensive to the State than before that negotiation. [[Protests from PSD MP João Marques.]] It happened in all the concessions that were negotiated, Mr João Marques — in all the concessions. We know well how this negotiation has been done, we have well in mind the numbers, which we can present. Therefore, for the Socialist Party, this is an important matter, but we assume this, like all others, with seriousness and responsibility before the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u185	What about Costa's promises? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u186	Honest words are not worth anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today a number of initiatives that have to do with both tolls and public-private road partnerships. They are subjects of the greatest importance, especially when we live in an inflation period, where the price of fuels increases, where the real wages of people decrease, which means that people with the same salary can buy less and less. If this matter is important when we look at the tolls in a global way, it is even more important when we look inside our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u190	When we look inside our country, I would again like to present a map that demonstrates how the population in our country is distributed today: we have 45% of the population in two metropolitan areas and the rest of the country practically without people. The speaker displayed the map she mentioned. The latest censuses show us that we had municipalities that lost 20% of the population. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] Therefore, or we have effective measures of positive discrimination and of valuing the territory in relation to the people who live in this interior, or then we will have, more and more, a territory completely depopulated. How do we feel about this? We feel that many ads have been made, but that, in most cases, they are inconsequential. When we look, for example, at the motorways, we see — which is inconceivable — that in A1 we pay a certain amount per kilometer, but for example at A13, which is the motorway of Pinhal Interior, which passes through the poorest municipalities, we pay nearly 20 % per kilometre. So, something, in fact, is not right. However, when I speak of this inconsequence, I also speak of an inconsequence on the part of Parliament — an inconsequence and a lack of respect. As my colleague has said, a 50 % reduction in the price of tolls was approved in this Parliament, but what is certain is that the government has arranged a subterfuge and has not applied this discount. I mean, there's a lack of respect. For those who say that we are increasing populism and populist movements, ask themselves what the people of the Algarve who attend the former SCUTs will say when they hear announcements of a 50 % reduction in the price of tolls and then they do not see this fulfilled. What do you talk about this Parliament? What do you feel? Where is republican ethics in fact? [[PSD applause.]] I therefore appeal to the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party : on 23, we will discuss a PSD project which once again aims to comply with what has already been approved for 2021, adding also the motorway of Pinhal Interior, which passes, as I said, in the poorest municipalities of this country. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] So, thinking of republican ethics, thinking of people, thinking of territorial cohesion discourses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u192	...I appeal to Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party who vote in favour, even because I am sure that the Minister for Territorial Cohesion will be happy, because when we speak in demagogy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u193	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u194	Madam President, it's only one more minute...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u195	Mrs. Deputy, one minute, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u196	Madam President, 1 second will be 1 second.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u197	Mrs. Deputy, 1 second not, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u198	It was Mrs. Minister of Territorial Cohesion who, during the election campaign in Castelo Branco, said: « If the PS is government, I leave the guarantee: we will continue to reduce the tolls and consider not its exemption, but its abolition. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] This is where the demagogy I was talking about. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u199	Let us turn to the end of this debate. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know very well that those who talk a lot about "Cristina who takes the train" are, in fact, giving very good help to Joaquim — who is as he says, to Joaquim Ferreira do Amaral, of the Administration of Lusoponte — or to Antonio — who is as he says, to Antonio Pires de Lima, Administrator of Brisa. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] In fact, the right — in particular the PSD — speaks a lot, but it gave the PS a hand, not only to impose the tolls on the SCUT motorways,... [[PSD and CH protests.]] ... but also to suck down the PCP proposals to end these tolls! The truth is one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u201	Who gave the hand to who? Oh, my God! [[Six Budgets!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u202	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the Assembly of the Republic, I don't know if you've noticed that. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u203	Very well, Madam President. Well remembered and thank you very much for your intervention. Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS did very well to bring to the debate the relevant issue of the costs of maintaining road infrastructure. I even had some news to give to Mr. Deputy, but he's now busy. I'm going to give the news to the ladies. Members present here and then you will know. Is that on the 25th of April bridge, where the price of the toll of a light vehicle has passed to 2 €, maintenance works are paid for by whom? They are paid by the State, it is not by Lusoponte, which receives the value of the toll. They are paid by the State in tens of millions of euros. The last time was from 2018 to the front, it was two years. Don't wait, ladies. Members of the PS, not the Government, thank you for this kind of discount on the theft of the people you are doing now with the tolls. This is because, first, they tell us that we are going to run out of the wallet and watch and then bring the good news to the country that we are left alone without the watch. We can't think that's positive. So, what you put on is that you always talk about the state as a good person when it is to guarantee bonuses and millionaire compensation to managers, or when it is to guarantee profits of billions to PPP dealers, but when it comes to wages and pensions, or about the progression in the careers of workers and the counting of their time of service, there the right policy speaks again higher and there the person is going to take a good turn. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge you face is very simple: at least this time, put people first, not the profits of the economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-08.u204	We have thus concluded this item on our agenda and, indeed, conclude our agenda. Tomorrow, the agenda for our plenary meeting, which starts at 3 p.m., has a single point, which is the debate on sectoral policy with the Minister for the Economy and the Sea. Good afternoon to all and to all, thank you very much and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours.]]
