ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to give an opinion of the 14th. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u2	Mr President, I am announcing that 14. the Commission sent to the Bureau an opinion, following the meeting on 6 June, which relates to : « Extension of the suspension of the mandate and its replacement of Members, in accordance with Article 5 ( 2 ( d ). the Statute of Deputies : José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeiro ( electoral circle of Porto ) by Isabel Cristina Rua Pires ( electoral circle of Porto ), with effect from June 10, 2023, including until August 11, 2023. The term of office of Mr. José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeirojá was suspended under the said legal legislation from 11 February 2023, including a suspension which now requires that it be extended until 11 August 2023. The honourable Member was replaced by the candidate who did not elect Isabel Cristina Rua Pires. Do not keep on seeking. ” If everything is in conformity, it is requested that the following opinion be voted on: « The extension of the suspension of the mandate of Mr José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeiro ( BE ) continues to meet the legal requirements, being temporarily replaced by Isabel Cristina Rua Pires ( BE), with effect from 10 June 2023, including until 11 August 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u3	We shall proceed to the vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, the absences of the NAP and L were approved unanimously.]] The suspension of Mr Soeiro's term of office and, consequently, his replacement by Mrs Isabel Pires is therefore extended. For the reading of the dossier, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u4	Mr President, I shall take account of the entry into the Bureau of the Draft Deliberation No 14 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Constitutional Review Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u5	We will start our agenda with the current debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, on « Water at Risk ». To open the debate by the proposed group, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We are at the beginning of June, summer is still coming, but we already have almost half of our national territory in a severe or extreme drought. Year after year, we discussed the problem, witnessed the dramatic increase in the impact of climate change, regretted the ineffectiveness of the measures taken and pointed out and called on the Government to find new solutions to better manage our water resources. However, let's see: water losses in supply networks, which reach 30 %; reuse of treated waste water virtually non-existent; low storage capacity albums, due to lack of maintenance; risk aquifers and groundwater captures whose quantity we do not measure; lack of awareness and involvement of citizens in rationalizing consumption; unsustainable tariffs in several municipalities; industrial, agricultural, livestock and energy production activities conditioned by lack of water; populations that, in summer, have to be supplied by tank trucks; a government waiting for rain and that always takes time to act. [[PSD applause.]] That's how it was last year. Despite ongoing PSD alerts and proposals, the Government has left the whole year without any action and no effective action against this scourge. This year we follow the same path. The PSD needed to schedule this current debate so that in recent days we could see the government giving signs of life and come to create a task force to deal with the problem in the Algarve, reunite the commission for drought and impose restrictions on water consumption in the southwest Alentejo. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to implement measures to account and reactively. The policy for water in Portugal is anachronistic, based on outdated instruments, supported by plans that delay and fail to meet, marked by a deficit in innovation, investment and monitoring. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, it is not worth having illusions. We need to change government action and have a policy for robust and concrete, realistic, courageous and consistent water based on compliance with the deadlines and obligations that any government worthy of that name has to fulfill. [[PSD applause.]] Unfortunately, the Government and the Socialist Party have insisted on a policy for failed water, which has been fatally marked by several Fs: the F of failure, the F of facilitation, the F of pretending, which joins the F of escape to responsibility. In fact, the Government has failed and accumulated delays in the presentation and revision of fundamental plans: the PENSAARP 2030 ( Strategic Plan for Water Supply and Waste Water Management and Rain 2030) has not been known, and it has already passed one year since the end of the public consultation; the National Water Efficiency Programme has seen its deadline complete, but has not been implemented or revised; in the regional water efficiency plans, the same scenario, with many promises, but lacks to be presented or implemented; the other plans, as is the case for public water shelters, are out-of-date and are dragged into the review processes. Facilitation has also marked water management in this government. in this scenario of increasing water pressure and limited control of aquifers, the government promoted legislative changes in which water resources use licenses were replaced by mere prior communications and the role of the Administration was conditioned by short notice deadlines and by facilitating tacit deferral. All this while, in the management of the Iberian rivers, the failure to comply with the caudal regime by Spain was facilitated and the Government was unable to adequately defend the national interest. Finally, as if this were not enough, the government seems to be worrying about the lack of water. Only the plot will justify that a government that claims to be so concerned has not yet paid farmers all support for the drought last year,... [[PSD applause.]] ... the same pretense that allows the Socialist Party to ignore and reject good proposals presented in this House or, even worse, approve them and reject them immediately, as if it were nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u7	All right! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government has not led us to a swamp, but only because there is not enough water. [[PS Members' laughs.]] It led us to a desert of inaction and governmental solutions that are unable to meet the challenges of water management that the country has ahead. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, today, more than today's debate, this should be a future debate, focusing on solutions to overcome the challenges posed by climate change and the increase in water consumption. We need a new generation of policies for water, with a modern and reformist vision, which enables us to effectively manage this strategic and fundamental resource. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the government, the PSD has scheduled this debate and today, as it has always done, will point out paths and make contributions. Following this discussion, we will present a number of initiatives focused on what to do — and that is how to combat losses, digitisation and innovation, underground water management. At the head of these initiatives we propose the revision of the Water Law, made from Parliament, with the involvement of all parties and within a process of comprehensive and participatory auscultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u10	It is clear that the government has the humility to recognize what is not right and what can be greatly improved for the sake of the country and for the future of all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u11	To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Duarte Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last 20 years, rainfall has decreased in Portugal by around 15% and it is estimated that by the end of the century it will fall between 10% and 25%. This decrease assumes decisive influence on the amount of water that flows to our rivers, but also in our dams and aquifers. The IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) states that Portugal today has 36 % of the territory in severe or extreme drought, concentrated in Alentejo, Algarve and in some areas of the Tejo. in these territories, we have little water in the soil, with consequences for drought farming and pasture, causing significant impacts to farmers. In public buildings, the situation of the country is very asymmetric. In average terms, we have 79 % capacity level in our albums — better than last year, because at this time we had only 65 % capacity, and better than in Spain, which has 48 % — but this is not the case throughout the territory, and the situation of Alentejo and Algarve is of concern to us. Last year, by this time, we had already limited electricity production in our dams. The year 2022 was one of the worst years of drought that there are records, and we clearly identified five regions with high water stress: Algarve, Alentejo Coast, Tejo and the regions of the West, Viseu and Tres-os-Montes area. In 2023, we already promoted two meetings of the Standing Committee on the Prevention, Monitoring and Monitoring of the Effects of Dryness. At the last meeting, on 1 June, we announced new measures for the Algarve, in particular for the Sotavento area: the reduction of surface water capture in the Odeleite-Beliche albueiras ; the reduction of water distribution by 20 % for agriculture and by 20 % to 50 % for the golf courses and the garden stream; the use of groundwater captures in the aquifers of Luz-Tavira and São Bartolomeu for water and golf courses, in the water perimeter area of the Sotavento, under certain conditions; and the creation of a task force for monitoring and control of groundwater extractions from the Algarve region. The first meeting of this task force took place yesterday, with the participation of APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ), the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, the CCDR Algarve ( Algarve Regional Coordination and Development Commission ), the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Fisheries of the Algarve and the Algarve Municipal Association. The objective is to revise the water resources allocation titles and ensure their monitoring and reduction of consumption, starting with Almadena-Odiaxere. These measures are in addition to others that were already in force, in the dams of Monte da Rocha and Santa Clara, in the Alentejo, and in the dam of Bravura, in the Algarve, and to other contingency measures that we have applied since last year. Let me give some examples: the suspension of the issue of new groundwater titles for particular use in the water masses identified as critical, for example, on the banks of the Algarve, Guadiana, Sado, Tejo and banks of the West and Lis ; and the promotion, in conjunction with the chambers, of the reduction of water consumption of the distribution network for non-drink uses, in particular, for example, street washing, or even closing decorative sources without closed circuits. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Algarve had already been identified in the context of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), so we presented a water efficiency plan and investments of 200 million euros, which we are running and will allow us to add 68 hm3 of water to the Algarve, of which 7 hm3 will be by means of savings, to an annual consumption of 110 hm3 of surface water and 90 hm3 of groundwater. at this time we have already executed and we have added 15 hm3 with PRR measures. Measures are being taken to improve water catchment in dams and to strengthen interlinkages between Barlavonto and Sotavento, but also in Guadiana, investments in reducing water losses in distribution and in new water sources, such as recycled water and a desalinizer. According to studies conducted by the Waters of Portugal, which will be delivered to Environmental Impact Assessment very soon, the place where we propose the installation of the desalinizer is the municipality of Albufeira. We want to open the contest by the end of the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The path will also be made in the Alentejo, with the water efficiency plan, which is already ready and will be presented soon. Even this month, we will award the contract for the realization of the Alqueva link to the album of Monte da Rocha,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u13	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u14	Already? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u15	We want to take advantage of this concession to fund a new dam in the Ocreza River, which drains on the Tejo, next to the border,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u16	When?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u17	... and also to fund a tunnel that leads recycled water from Loures and Vila Franca de Xira to Leziria do Tejo, among other smaller investments that are considered necessary. We made a public presentation of these our intentions of investment, of the process, with all the intermunicipal communities of the Tagus. In Viseu, we hope to solve the structural problem of lack of water retention capacity with the connection of the territory to Douro and Paiva Water and with a new dam in Fagilde. Last week, in collaboration with Agriculture, we made an order to develop the bases of the water efficiency plan of Trás-os-Montes, which must follow the same principles used for Algarve : support in efficiency, strengthening interconnections and improving supply. We started in the Algarve, parallel to the execution of the PRR, the work for a water pact. We want, with the territory, to adapt development to the resources available so that we can predict future consumption and water availability and distribute them to the various consumers. And we want to celebrate other regional water pacts with the territories that we have identified as territories with water stress. We also intend, as we have already had the opportunity to say publicly, to propose a change to the Water Law, to strengthen the powers of surface and underground water control, in particular in an identified context of scarcity. The drought situation is followed with rigour and, in addition to structural interventions and conjunctural measures, we will not hesitate to adopt others that are necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u18	To open the first round of the debate on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Barbara Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water is a scarce resource. The ease of access and the perception, erroneous and daily, that this resource is inexhaustible leads to over-exploration of it. But until when? How long can we continue to open the tap without reflecting on the impact of this behavior? At the end of May, 36 % of continental territory was in severe and / or extreme drought, affecting especially the areas of the Tejo Valley and the southern Country. In May, precipitation was 35 % below normal and there were temperatures above average, leading to critical levels of water in the soil, especially in southern Portugal. The scenarios designed for Portugal in the coming years are not encouraging, as it will be one of the countries most affected by water scarcity due to the increase in temperature and decrease in precipitation levels, which are not sufficient to ensure the efficiency of the water cycle. The country will have more drought periods, which will accelerate the degradation of soils and terrestrial ecosystems, affecting biodiversity and the activities they need from the soil to produce. It is therefore urgent to draw the necessary solutions to anticipate the effects of climate change, adapting the various activities to respond effectively to the challenges of the future. This was precisely the commitment the Socialist Government has made. In partnership with the academy and with specialists, diagnoses and identified critical points in terms of water availability in the country were performed. There is only one certainty: that no sector can be affected by the shortage of water, not even the citizens. It is also known that greater effort will have to be made in southern Portugal. The planning phase is central to the implementation of a public policy for water that is robust, clear and results-oriented, based on the development of water efficiency plans in several regions. In order to ensure good water management, the Socialist Government and the Minister of the Environment themselves have already identified some measures: limits have been defined for water collection; there has been a bet on re-use of water, particularly in non-drink urban uses, in the Gulf stream, in the agricultural stream;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u21	... monitoring mechanisms were strengthened; EUR 5 million was made available to support specific measures of drought contingency in the 43 municipalities in critical situations, because this is a situation where there is a need for cooperation between government, municipalities and all economic sectors; among other measures that had a positive impact. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, and the results are proof of success: when ironically, the month of May was drier than the normal and warmer than the average, the data show us that this year, compared to last year, the country is well prepared to deal with the drought situation, verifying a positive water balance in the order of 14 %, and that in 2022 it was 65 % of the capacity and in 2023 it is 79 %. If we know that much is being done to adapt activities to water scarcity, we also have the conviction that this is a path that needs to be adjusted according to needs. It is therefore essential for all sectors of civil society to be part of this collective challenge and to work together for sustainable water management, which includes fair, equitable and, above all, solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u22	Even in the time reserved for PS, Mr Pedro do Carmo now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing the water resource today. Water has always been, and is, the most important and necessary resource we have in nature, has already been disputed until wars and battles. Without water there is no life, without water we do not live. But it must be said, the worst contribution we can make to the solution of the problem of lack of water is to compare the various sectors of activity, is to consider that water is more or less well used according to the sector that uses it. The water used in agriculture is worth no more than that used by industries. Losses on water channels are no more or less important than losses on urban circuits. Diabolizing the use of water in agriculture is a bad principle, it is not to understand what is at stake, because at the moment there are many difficulties that farmers have in ensuring their animals are drunk. I remember that the water used in agriculture and livestock ensures our food and is not a waste. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, clearly, what we have here today, with the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture, together with the honourable Members. State Secretaries, as we have been accustomed to signing various documents, various projects,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u24	That's what you guys are good at! Signing is they're good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u25	...it is the right way, it is the path of combat, it is the path of implementation, not in competition, but in complementarity. The country wins, we all win. I said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u26	You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u27	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, Minister for the Environment, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Today's current debate is about a permanent one. Water may be the most precious good on the planet. It is essential for mankind. Its possession and management has always shaped all civilizations. It is not only engineering and geography, but also policy and strategy, the strategy that has been missed by this government. It is crucial to understand the relationship of humanity with water, which is so only the most powerful agent of Earth’s climate system. Climate change and climate events are increasingly extreme, intensifying and worsening from year to year, which is particularly felt in our Mediterranean climate: it rains very much in certain periods of the year and in other periods there is an extreme drought, a severe drought. When it rains a lot, part of the water infiltrates the soil, and well, and significant part goes to the sea. We are thinking, as Mr Minister has already said, of making some investments in desalination, and well. But why don't we also think about storing more of that water in the rivers? Basically, we have to define the kind of relationship we want to have with water, as a society. [[PSD applause.]] Water is essential for ecosystems; water is essential for consumption; water is essential for energy production; but water is essential also for agriculture. Store water in small, medium or even large reservoirs, such as dams, is part of the key to the process. And I made a parenthesis here: today in Portugal, no one questions negatively the investments made in Castelo de Bode — which provides about 3 million inhabitants of this metropolis of Lisbon — or even in Alqueva, the largest agricultural investment ever in Portugal. Therefore, we have to figure out, in strategic terms, what investments we should make. But do you know how much the deficit in our trade balance in Portugal represents, between what we produce and what we import, in agricultural terms? We are talking about some EUR 5000 million per year, EUR 5000 million for Portuguese to import agricultural products from other countries to Portugal. What remains of this conclusion is that Portugal should strategically think about combating this food production deficit, producing more food.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u28	We're doing it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u29	As I said recently, our Mediterranean climate, due to these oscillations between dryer periods and periods with more water, does not allow us to have competitive agriculture without being irrigation agriculture. So, we don't produce anymore because we don't have soils available in irrigation anymore. On the so-called « crops of drought», the Socialist Party's Member said recently that the country, this year, is prepared for the drought there, but, Madam Member, the country is not prepared, on the contrary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u30	You're in better condition, that's what the honourable Member said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u31	He's in better condition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u32	There are many farmers in Portugal who are in great difficulty right now, who are selling animals because they have no food. Therefore, the honourable Member has revealed that, like her bench, she has no knowledge, but it is not strange.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u33	Oh, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u34	You don't know?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u35	I must tell you that, at the moment we are talking about, there is a series of conferences, symposia and seminars in Santarém, the largest agricultural fair in the country, the National Agricultural Fair, where, in addition to the exhibition of machinery and animals, there are conferences, symposia and seminars that should be attended by someone from the Ministry of Agriculture. It should be compulsory, because it is there with farmers that the associations define strategies to deal with these problems that I have told you about. If the Minister for Agriculture has not been invited to be present by the organisation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u36	What a disengagement!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u37	...I leave you here with an invitation, so you can go there to attend these debates. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u38	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we have a debate on water in this Parliament! This is an important time, since 89 % of our country is already dry and half is in severe drought, and as usual, the areas of Alentejo and Algarve are the most affected. Let us make a great mistake in this House, in which we should all reflect. It is that when this time comes we discuss the problems of water, drought and fires, when things should be prepared in advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u41	However, these debates must always be praised in order to prepare for the future. The Arrival presented in this House last week an innovative project, a project of the future, a true national plan, which would be the national water network, which would connect the Douro, the Tejo and the Guadiana, and could still cover the Minho and the Mondego, so that one could make the transvase of the water, taking the Country as a whole, and the water, this very valuable, would not be wasted in the sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u43	In addition to the normal lead of the PS, which always puts the ideology in front of the interest of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u44	Because he's got no ideology at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u45	... we also had the vote against the author of this agenda today, precisely the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u46	The project is wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u47	As water is at risk—and I believe that we are all in agreement—we must preserve and use well. Therefore, we proposed water management in rational and optimized terms, by taking water in Pomarão, in the Guadiana River, which would benefit particularly the Algarve, but all parties abstained, with the exception of the PS, which voted against. We also proposed the identification of water resources and the solution of desalination, but only the IL voted in favour — the others abstained again and the PCP voted against, together with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u49	What about desalination?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u50	Then they come to speak as big defenders and say that they are very concerned about the lack of water, but at the time of voting, or if they abstain or vote against. Lack of consistency! [[Congrats from the CH.]] With a government that is successful in 'watering', which is promising that neither in Trás-os-Montes nor in the Algarve, as if it had a crystal ball, we now heard the Minister of the Environment say, with great pump and circumstance: 'We have a project for a desalination centre' — one! One, and the government is having a party. In Spain there have been 68 central centres for a long time, and so the Spaniards are taking advantage of this resource. Here we are, as always, behind the damage: meetings, studies, working groups, but few results. The inertia of this government is grueling. For example, in the Lower Alentejo, the dam of the Monte da Rocha, in the municipality of Orique, is only 10 % of its maximum capacity and, supposedly, in the future will be connected to the Alqueva by the dam of the Roxo, in the municipality of Aljustrel. But when? It is now said that it will be completed in 2025. He studied from bureaucracy to bureaucracy, and it continues to be very, very slowly. 'The problem of drought in Lower Alentejo is not a problem this year, but a problem of the last 20 years, which has been getting worse' — lack of response and political decision. Who says so is António Bota, President of the Intermunicipal Community of Lower Alentejo and the Municipality of Almodóvar. The statements, less than a month ago, are an author who is not from arrive, is not from PSD, is not from the Liberal Initiative, but is from the Socialist Party. It touched on the right point: do not apologize for climate change, it is, yes, lack of response and political decision. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The former President of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), Eduardo Oliveira and Sousa, touched the wound. He was attacked immediately by the Left Block, when he said there is no lack of water in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u51	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u52	...but a huge problem in the management and efficiency of our water resources, that is, water. However, we must emphasize the consistency of the Left Block with regard to the attack on the whole rural world and agricultural production. It is enough to observe the proposed initiatives, which, in parallel with those of the NAP and the Socialist Party, aim only to destroy even more the interior and agriculture of our country, imposing an agenda which literally even our eating habits intend to change. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is not by chance that no ruler went to Ovibeja, or that Mrs. Minister, if you want to go to the National Farming Fair, you will have to buy a ticket.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u53	You don't have, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u54	What she doesn't want is to go through the shame of facing our farmers. We're still in our fight. To defend water is also to defend agriculture and farmers. We therefore advocate that farmers should be able to build small reservoirs, water intakes or water retentions in a more autonomous and less bureaucratic manner. What about the Algarve? The Government's solution is to cut water for agriculture by 20 %; then to increase the price of water to which it spends most — I do not know what tourism will say about it — and, to end, anyone who has a hole, spends more water and does not use a counter could be expropriated from the hole — 'expropriate from the hole' were the words of the Minister of the Environment. Expropriations: So it was with the dwellings, now with the water, to impose the Venezuelan model in Portugal. They won't pass with us! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u55	The rigor is not your strength!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u56	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u57	Mr. President, Mr.a and Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have been talking about water this morning, among other things; last week we had a plenary in which we talked about water; and on Friday that comes, on the initiative of an agenda of the PCP, with a series of other projects dragged, we will again talk about water. This is good! It is good to talk about this many times, because every time we speak, the government is more ashamed of what it has not done and of plans that do not carry out or bring more news. I am going to keep the bottom line for the second round, because in the first round I want to take advantage of one of the things that have come up this morning and that you have not known, because, there, the Minister is coming to Parliament and taking advantage of some news.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u58	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u59	We learned about the water efficiency plans, which were two planned, that of the Algarve, since 2020, and that of the Alentejo, which we now know is almost — we will believe that it is almost to be known as well, moreover, were the two planned in dispatch almost the same day, one is ready three years ago and the other will be known now— but there will be three more: Tejo and Oeste, Viseu and Trás-os-Montes, which will be developed with the coordination of the APA, which is the institution responsible for this enormous delay of the Plan of Alentejo. Now, I want to know which guarantee we will have that the water efficiency plans of these three new regions, which both of them lack, will not take three or four years too, which goes right there from the weather limit of this legislation. We also learned — at least I did not know — that there are concrete plans for a desalination centre in Sines and for a private desalination centre for Mira streams, with which the Ministry of the Environment would like to conclude a potential agreement for exploitation. I would like you to explain, in this first round, exactly how that agreement could exist and if that would not be a way of encouraging investments by others interested in having water either for agricultural or industrial purposes. We also learned today that you are looking forward to changes to the Water Law — he said at the time, and he repeated it now — in order to strengthen the competences of the uptake of surface water and groundwater. But don't forget that the Water Law also provides for the National Water Plan, which was last revised in 2016 and therefore, if the accounts don't fail me, it has to be revised in 2024. In view of the quality of that plan and the underlying study, I hope that the Minister can confirm that the review work is already under way, because what was there was an excellent basis of work — in our view, little profit — for those who should be the water options in Portugal. So on these three issues — desalination centres, efficiency plans and the Water Law — Mr Minister, reassure us and tell us that this time we will not be in the next water debate asking what the government has done. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u60	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The drought situation already covers a large part of the national territory, with more than one third of the territory already in severe or extreme drought and another third in moderate drought. There are, of course, consequences of weather conditions and climate change, but there is a political dimension to which the Government must respond, which is the complete lack of proper management of this resource, water. Even in normal years, the months from June to September are of zero or negative hydrological balance, so it is months in which the needs are supplied by stored water. For adequate water management at the end of May, the managing entity should know exactly how much water exists in each reservoir, natural or artificial, which needs and captures installed and make the water balance. If available water did not arrive, then it should determine which needs must be met and which needs must be conditioned or even prevented. This is the minimum that a water management policy would be required, and neither do we have this. What we have is a situation of « saving whoever can». We don't even have this information from the monthly hydrological balance per basin by estimate, so we still don't have a proper priority of available water uses. We continue to have the uncontrolled growth of crops that require a lot of water, such as intensive olives, which, unlike traditional olives, is water, or peanuts, or avocados, in the Algarve — one of the regions with the greatest water problems — or also the greenhouses on the Alentejo coast, to not speak of the golf courses, and that there has recently been a contamination of aquifers by over-exploration in one of the largest golf courses in the Algarve. It is with this irrational use that drought problems worsen. unlike the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, we argue that it is the agricultural crops that must adapt to the water availability of the territory rather than the other way around, making transvases to « take the water to the mill » of the intensive olive latifoundium, peanuts and avocados or installing desalinations to water avocados and olive trees. But the government, Mr. Ministers? That is the point. After all, what is the government's perspective? Will you continue to bet on this logic of "save anyone who can", which only serves the great economic interests, or will you have another perspective on water management? There is still another question that can only be asked. On 8 May, the Government declared a drought situation in 63 municipalities, all of them councils where the great property predominates. And the rest of the country, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers? What is the government's assessment of the drought situation in the rest of the country? Is the declaration of drought not justified in mini-fungal areas? And bring them to the mountains, a region where the water levels on the ground, in the last week of May, were extremely worrying?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u62	No, there's no lack of water there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u63	What is the government's assessment at the moment? When will the government recognise the drought situation in these mini-fund regions? As long as they do not do so, farmers will not have access to any form of support and to the measures announced. Will the government continue to channel all support related to drought to the large owners, leaving the small agriculture outside? That was the question that we would like the Government to answer in this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u64	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u65	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As regards the debate we are doing here, we are running behind time, as a country, as a society and even as a world. The truth is, with some slowness, despite everything, we have already reached a common point, where we can understand that extreme drought phenomena are not timely—so we will have to live with them, probably for a long time—and that we need solutions. The problem in these debates begins exactly in the solution and in the slow implementation. I am sure it is important that the PSD has marked this debate — we have had some debates on this subject, and we will have more — the truth is that, politically, all the governments of recent decades have objective responsibilities in practice that do not have an integrated water management policy in our country. Indeed, drought trends have been known for several years. Science has been telling us this for decades. The impacts of climate change have been known for several years, but either by attempting to deny the scientific reality that has been ahead of us for decades, or by lack of political will to deal with these same consequences, the truth is that we have reached 2023 with a highly worrying situation. So, culminating in this debate, what we need to realize is that it cannot be all in the same, neither from the point of view of the way and the form of agriculture we have in our country, nor from the point of view of the networks, which still allow much higher water losses than it would be in 2023, when we have so much technology that could allow us not to have so many losses. We really need to change everything about the water use models we have right now. And no, it's not because I open the tap to go drink water or to go brush your teeth, the problem is not there, the problem is even in large water uses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u67	I therefore raise two concrete questions from that point of view. The first is about the National Water Efficiency Program. This document, which was absolutely structural, because it is very dense, and it was important at the time it was published, is outdated, but the truth is that we do not know, at this time, when it will be revised or what results have had since its application, in order to be able to make an assessment. The second question has exactly to do with the agricultural model. To say that we must necessarily have a different agricultural model not to attack the rural world is to really look at the rural world, particularly the small farmers, to whom, in certain regions, water is being withdrawn, such as the Mira river perimeter, to pass it on to intensive agriculture, which makes use of absolutely excessive water in crops that we must understand, we probably cannot keep for many more years. Therefore, from the point of view of the agricultural model, I wonder whether the proposals which the Minister and the Minister have announced this week, after the Council of Ministers, bear in mind this need to profoundly change the agricultural model we have in our country, particularly in the Alentejo and Algarve regions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u68	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u69	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Before I begin my intervention, I would like to leave a word of solidarity with Madeira. Today, the phenomenon we have in Madeira is precisely one of the extremes of what we have been discussing here. We have talked about the drought, but the fillings are precisely its opposite and what climate change will bring us more and more, unfortunately. in what is today the very serious problem of water scarcity, we have heard even the exhaustion, in several debates, that we all recognize the state in which the country is. But there is one thing we cannot ignore: the greatest enemies of future agriculture, the greatest enemies of planet sustainability are those who want everything to go on in the same and do not change the way we look at resources. Much has been said in the golf courses, and well, much has been spoken in intensive and superintensive agriculture, and well, but livestock is always left out. Ignoring the footprint that livestock, in particular intensive farming, we are talking about having a negative effect on more than 600 surface and underground water masses only on the continent, and this sector remains absolutely untouchable. In fact, we have not only an agricultural policy that ignores the European Ecological Pact and we do not have an environmental transversality in these matters. It has already been asked here by the National Water Plan and the Minister will certainly have the opportunity to say what the situation is, but it was also important to know about the climate risk atlas, which should already be built, because Portugal will be the most affected country. We have today, in the galleries, young people of various ages—they will pay the climate bill, when one day they run the risk of opening the tap and not going out a drop. We're still on time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed political will.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u70	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u71	Mr. President, good afternoon, Dear colleagues, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister, Minister : Every day the current day is responsible for reminding us of how water is an important political problem, whether from the point of view of preparation for natural disasters, or from the point of view of extreme weather situations, as we are now living in our Autonomous Region of Madeira. If we think on the other side of the continent, in Ukraine, we are experiencing one of the biggest recent ecological disasters on our continent, with the breaking up of the New Kakhovka dam, probably a war crime. This reminds us of the importance of water, and of international resources in particular, such as rivers, including the Dniepre basin, for countries receiving water. Our country is in this case: most of the Portuguese watersheds are born outside our territory. Recently, Mr Moura said that with our Mediterranean climate, to have competitive agriculture — I think it was the word he used — it would have to be a welcome. I would certainly not go so far or from the point of view of what we can consider an assessment of the stability of our climate. With climate change, Portugal actually has several climate regions, not only the Mediterranean climate. All these climate regions are under pressure and also because there are some ancestral cultures that are less dependent on irrigation and Portugal — and here I address to the Minister — it must be prepared for a type of agriculture where water resources are used intelligently. But for this, we need the transfer of knowledge between the collection of technological data, the academy and agricultural holdings, particularly small and medium-sized farms, to make what is not sustainable. Precise agriculture is an area in which the knowledge economy can give great help and help our farmers again to do something that has already been able to do very well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u72	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u73	Speak, speak, speak...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u74	...which is knowing where it takes more and less water, almost square meter to square meter. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u75	To reply on behalf of the Government, I begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, Maria do Céu Antunes. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues from the Government : I would like to begin by thanking the questions put by all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we celebrate the World Food Safety Day. According to data transmitted today by social communication, 1 in 10 people are affected by poor food. We have an obligation to produce food in quantity and quality to feed all. And, yes, fortunately, we have many young people here in the Chamber today and the young people, as well as all of us, are responsible for this dimension. When we choose vintage products, when we choose traditional trade products, we are reducing our ecological footprint, we are reducing the amount of water used. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to produce more food using less resources, and water is one of those resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, I would like to begin by leaving a word of great appreciation to all farmers of drought, irrigation, minifundia and latifoundio,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u77	They're the ones who vote in the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u78	... which have led Portugal to increase the production of agricultural products in recent years by maintaining our capacity for self-supply to 86 %. We've been eating more for two decades to this part, but we've exported more, 5 % a year, we've imported more, but less than 3 % a year. Yes, our deficit is great, it is especially great last year because we import inflation and we need to clarify this. [[Protests of PSD, CH and IL Members.]] That is why we are paying attention to the use of water, which is why we have taken contingency measures and that is why we are better prepared today. In fact, our albums are with an average capacity of 77 % of storage, and so we have 60 of them with a capacity to water 100 %. Where it has not been possible to do so, we have measures that allow us to guarantee, however, conditions for farmers not to stop. And I fear that it will be done in harmony between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture. When we establish the Regional Plans of Water Efficiency, as we are implementing in the Algarve — although it has not yet been made public — the Monte da Rocha already has a provisional connection today, which makes it possible to water in that hydro-agricultural use. It is not entirely watered, but that is why we are making a great investment which is financed by agricultural funds to enable us to do this size. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to say that, yes, we are clearly focused on increasing storage so that we can have a greater saving capacity and be efficient in the use of water, whether on use or on agricultural holdings, using waste water, using desalination, whenever possible and economically viable, and using all means of accurate agriculture to help farmers do even better. At the end of the day, it is the farmer who wants to have water and wants to have a soil capable of producing more and better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u79	Even in the time reserved for the Government, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u80	Mr President: The first message that I want to pass, very clearly, is that water is not generated in confrontation, water is not generated in conflict. If we have anything we should be proud of, we have achieved water quality targets of 99 % over the past 30 years, targets for access to sanitation of 85 % of the population, and this has been done with policies of continuity, incremental, of continuous improvement. What we have presented, and we will continue to present, are political proposals made in conjunction with the territory. If the gentlemen. Members should ask the Algarve if we discuss with the Algarve authorities the proposals that we have tabled here, they will answer yes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you are to ask the Alentejo, if you are to ask the Tejo, if you are to ask Viseu and Trás-os-Montes, you will see that we have developed policies in partnership with the territory. We have a clear strategy. We have identified — in addition to the goals of maintaining water quality in the country and ensuring access to sanitation to the entire population above 85 % — five regions with water stress due to climate change. For each region, we have developed water efficiency plans and investment plans and we will develop regional water pacts to suit the water development model that we will really have, which will result from these investments, deduced from that which we will lose with climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u81	We'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u82	This is our strategy clearly. And we went further: we said in concrete, in each region, what are the investments. This debate is a great opportunity for the Members. Members say whether or not they agree with the investments we propose for each region of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You can do this, you have a great opportunity here. Do you agree or disagree with the way we're doing in the Algarve? Do you want to add? Propose it. This is the time. Do you agree or disagree?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u83	We propose, but the bench of the PS lead!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u84	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, and well, referred to the case of Alentejo, which we are discussing beyond the Algarve. There are two desalinators,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u85	One!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u86	... one in Sines, which is to respond to industrial needs, another in Mira, particularly for farmers. How are we gonna do that? Let's try to identify an area with them so we can install. This is a water that will be used privately, they will free their consumption from the public network. With this, they will have predictability and we will obviously have the water that they will release. Let's work together with this sector. It may be an opportunity to identify ways to add supply with regard to water. I would like to tell Mr. João Moura that it is an opportunity for us to discuss in particular each of the solutions, including those of the Tejo, which are very expensive to Mr. Mr. Pedro Pinto, if you had the opportunity not to limit yourself to this debate and to attend other times when we also spoke, you would see that we have not only proposals in the PRR for the capture of Pomarão, as we have said in a desalination in the Algarve, and we have increased its size. The PRR will have to be completed by 2026. I had the opportunity to tell you that we will soon present an environmental impact study in June. I had the opportunity to say, in this debate, where the desalinizer will be located, which will be in Albufeira. I just said that we're going to try to develop a desalination in Sines for industrial use and we're going to do another in Mira for farmers. Regarding Alqueva's connection to Monte da Rocha, he asked when the award is made. I'm telling you it's done this month. Regarding the National Water Plan, this plan was approved in 2016 and is supposed to be 10 years old. Mr Cotrim Figueiredo asked, and rightly so, when should it start, saying « it must start first, for us we will not get there and we will not have plans». You are right, you have to start next year, in order to be able to meet the deadline we have at the end of 10 years to renew the National Water Plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u87	We have eight!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u88	What are we doing now? Very clearly, water efficiency plans per region, investment plans per region, water pact per region. This is our way forward to responding to the problem of water shortages in certain critical regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Duarte Alves, the Portuguese Environment Agency publishes the newsletter every week. If you want to know, just consult him, because that is where he has information on 80 albums. All of you. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see. The Minister for Agriculture, say so, has taken immediate initiatives to help farmers at European level, has been beaten by these aids, to create these aid already. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, we have not only the newsletter that allows us to perceive the albums—and we hold inter-ministerial meetings to evaluate—as there is a difference between recognizing that we have 36% of our territory in extreme or severe drought and looking at the situation of our albums and assessing whether we have a serious or as serious situation as last year. We don't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. When we say there will be no water in our taps, it is because we have 79 % water in our albums and last year we had 65 % water. Last year, we had more restrictive measures than we have this year. Water is distributed symmetrically in the country, and we must take measures in all these plans. Someone said it was important to invest in efficiency. All water efficiency plans have, firstly, a hierarchical order to bet on efficiency, on the reduction of water losses, on the distribution for agriculture, on the distribution for human consumption. That is the hierarchy we follow, these are the elementary principles. The investment plan is clear: in the Algarve it is PRR ; in the Alentejo we will finance through Community funds and PEPAC ( Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy ), or PDR ( Regional Development Programme ) in particular ; in the Tejo we will finance with the new grant of the dam of the Tejo ; in Viseu we will finance with the accession to the waters of Portugal ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u89	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u90	...in Tres-os-Montes we're going to fund with multiple funding; and we're going to start now the water efficiency plan. Just to clarify, for the honourable Member not to be distracted from the origins, when I say'multiple funding' I refer to the Environment Fund, Community funds and the waters of Portugal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we know exactly what we're doing. I would say more: for those who do not trust public institutions, I mean that we have never been so prepared, from the point of view of public institutions — Portuguese Environment Agency, Directorate-General for Agriculture, Portuguese Institute for the Sea and the Atmosphere — to deal with these situations. This does not mean that we will not go through difficulties, because we still do not control time, because it is a variable that we all realize becomes difficult. The truth is this: we must have institutions prepared, act in time, act with thought, have investments, and that is all we have presented to you today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u91	We are now starting the second round of the debate. You have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Barroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u92	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Faces and Dear Mrs. Members: The last decades, as a result of climate change, have been very severely affecting several sectors, but none of them has been affected as expressively as the agriculture sector. It is important for all of us to be aware that this scenario will not improve or disappear by itself. There are dozens of studies that prove and support the argument that by 2050 we will have a water loss around 15%, thus further enhancing drought scenarios. The lack of water in general, but in particular in agricultural activity, is not resolved one day at a time or by the miraculous measures that you are doing. Ladies and gentlemen here, they are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is necessary to implement structural measures which, due to their complex nature, lack plans and time for their materialization. Still, many of them are already in progress and are in progress with the socialist governments. Examples of these measures are: the foundation of the priorities to be taken in the use of water; water efficiency through the reduction of waste irrigation systems; by innovation, often technological, at the level of control and monitoring for the improvement of water equipment; or also by the bet on the reuse of water for compatible purposes. The construction of a strategy for recreation, through the White Paper for Public Regadio, is currently under way, which has a direct impact on the public policies of the National Regadios Programme. This programme focuses on combating water loss in the secondary network and together with the PDR 2020 and the PRR will finance up to 2025 338 projects with more than EUR 800 million in support, covering around 70 % of the public recreation area. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u93	It is important to say that 80% of the irrigation area in Portugal is already equipped with efficient water systems, thus focusing on a fight for water efficiency, sustainability and reduction of vulnerability to drought, with improved water use, especially rainwater. Having said this, it is for the Unquestionable Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that fundamental plans to support water efficiency in agriculture are under way, which take place somewhat throughout the regions, such as the Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, the Tejo or the Alentejo. This is the way we want to take to protect and praise the national agricultural sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u94	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Brito now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Cars and Dear Members: 75 % of the albums have an average of 79 % of their water mass. This transfers the strong conviction that water is guaranteed in Portuguese taps and irrigation campaigns are guaranteed in agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dear Members, the problem of water scarcity and water resources cannot have ideologically closed solutions. All in this House, on behalf of the Portuguese, we have an obligation to present and assume solutions with consensus. Otherwise, we will be rendering poor service to the Portuguese, who need to continue in their lives. Yes, continue in your lives of work and effort, particularly in critical territories such as Alentejo, Algarve, the West and Trás-os-Montes. The measures in progress and to be taken must ensure the survival of these territories. Minister, what water do we have and how much water do we need? What water do we produce and what water do we store? What economic model do we intend to maintain in Portugal using water? The path is being made: in domestic use, with the reduction of losses in distribution, with the reuse of waste water; in agricultural use, with the technological reduction of consumption and the modernization of distribution networks; in tourism and industrial use, with the technological reuse of grey water and industrial water. We have so many good practices on the ground, by the municipalities, farmers, tourism and industry sectors, to set an example and that we can list. It is EUR 2000 million for the urban water cycle in 2030; EUR 390 million for water management and mitigation of water scarcity in the PRR; water monitoring of consumption and storage; joint action by the Ministries of Agriculture and the Environment; the Transvase from Douro to Paiva; the construction of the dams of Fagilde and Pisão; the connection of the dams of Roxo and Monte da Rocha; and the passage of the Cabril dam for multiple purposes, which will allow the construction of the barrier of Alvito in the Ocreza River. On the other hand, we have the Resolution Project No. 699 / XV / 1. the PS, on water, which will be presented on the next day 16. It is true that the road is walking, not only more efficiently in the use and management of water, but also more efficiently in the storage to the surface and, in underground waters, in the aquifers. We will defend people, their resilience, territories and socio-economic and environmental sustainability. The PS Government shall be the worker of the railway and of the new housing. But it will also be with this government that the implementation of the first salinizing plants in the Algarve, the Alentejo Litoral and the West will take place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, the PSD is concerned about the plans and we are concerned about the action. Mr. President, 5 seconds to say the following, Mr. Minister, is already invited to be once again present in 20. the Alentejo Camp Fair, where it will be treated with respect and dignity, as is the case with any member of the government, precisely because of the democratic culture that the institutions of the agricultural sector and the people of that council have by the members of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u96	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cristina.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u97	Mr President, Mr Minister and Mrs Minister, Mr and Mrs. Members: The Algarve region is in extreme or severe drought. In fact, about three years have witnessed a situation of water stress that has penalized agriculture and has prevented irrigation from using water perimeters. I just heard Mr. Nelson Brito say that there will be no water in the taps. I am sorry that you do not know the reality of the Algarve, where the Bravura Dams have about 13 % water and are at 40 % of the Arade Dams. [[PSD applause.]] This is the sad reality of the Algarve region, Mr! [[PS protests.]] Currently, there are plantations that have stopped being watered. In agriculture, there are animals that have no water to drink. There are urban areas and tourism sectors where problems are already felt. Mr. Minister came here to say that we are against the plans, and I also heard Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u98	Susana!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u99	... to say that we are against solutions. We are not against the plans, we want realisation. Until we agree with the Water Efficiency Plan, we want it to be executed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u100	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u101	We don't want any more politics, more ads, more jokes. That's not what's gonna put water on our taps. [[PSD applause.]] The water level in the aquifers is critical. The amount of water is mediocre. Stop the salinization ghost, which is happening. It will take many years to the recomposition, if this really happens. But only now, in June, is that the government has agreed to the problem when, in recent years, we have reiterated significantly to this problem in the Assembly of the Republic. They have now created a task force to assess the level of groundwater, to review the use of these resources. Evaluating? Rever? But just now, Minister? Oh, my God! However, consumption restriction measures were also announced. It is said that a legislative amendment to the law of water is also being drawn up. Let's hope it's soon and as soon as possible, because people can't wait. What we want to know is what this means in practice. That is, if you are going to suspend the titles of use of water resources, when and with what criteria. In addition, Mr Minister of the Environment, if it is necessary to review and evaluate, I wonder with which data was implemented the Algarve Regional Water Efficiency Plan. I ask this question because in September 2020 it was presented with 57 measures and where EUR 200 million was announced, but the Transparency Portal says, near-white, that only 10 % was executed, Minister. Only 10 % of this plan is implemented. It's little, it's very little. So we ask: how is the situation of re-use of waste water? How is the situation of Guadiana's capture? Is it done or not done? Is he at what point? This is too bad to be true, Minister! With regard to Alentejo, very quickly I ask how is the situation of the Regional Water Efficiency Plan announced by the Minister in the State Budget for 2023? What is the point of such a desalination centre? How are you, Minister? I only ask you to stop advertising promises and implement them. Concrete, please, because water is life! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u102	Even in the time allocated to the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by saying that my colleague Rui Cristina's intervention shows well why the interventions of the PS and the Minister are one: "This is not done in comparison. This is with everyone. But it is an interesting 'with all'. It's one: « Don't criticize us! Don't criticize us, because this has got to be with everyone! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] It's a little interesting, and it shows good, because it shows with data. In fact, it is even impressive how Mr. Minister can make an intervention with so many "we will do here", "we will do there" and Mr. Nelson Brito, who continues to intervene, by the way,... [[PS Nelson Brito's laughs.]] ... and that can do an intervention to say « we will shoot millions here, shoot millions to the ground», but both end up saying that « we have never been so well prepared ». And I ask: then, how is there so much to do, so much to do, but we have never been so well prepared in Portugal? Oh, my God! This, in fact, is fantastic. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u104	If it's not now, we need a plan!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u105	Well, I would like to invite you to focus on what is important: that is to talk about water in the various dimensions. I wanted to bring here too, because that is why we have allocated the debate, the water/energy link, because water is a renewable resource that we can keep. Dams can be our batteries, our system's security of supply. That's why we want to review the Water Law. We also want to review the plans of the buildings, to have more technology in the dams that, as we know, do not drink water, do not waste water, but it is important that the government rotates the water there. It is not to do as in 2021, which waited for the country to dry up almost everything to call for EDP (Energy of Portugal) to prohibit EDP from producing energy with the water there. [[PSD applause.]] It was the EDP who remembered, in fact, that the country could not dry. It is important that we remember this and the government too, especially in a climate change scenario, which can coexist a drought with an energy crisis, may cause us to wonder whether we are going to bring light or water to people. Now, because we never imagine suffering as much as we can come to suffer with climate change, let us bring these examples, as well as other examples of what we want to do. We have launched this debate to say that, in the opposition, we are prepared to do this work that is necessary. That's how the PS was. Too bad I'm not! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u106	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Minister Duarte Cordeiro, the Minister taught the PCP board to go see the weekly album newsletter, but he doesn't teach us anything, because we are documented. Mr Minister, this weekly album bulletin is exactly the paradigm that shows us that we need integrated management and a structural planning paradigm for the country. What we see in the government, unfortunately, Mr Minister, is a paradigm of prohibition, a prohibitionist paradigm. Whenever we see each other with a period of drought, what the Minister of Agriculture is soon doing is prohibiting water for farmers. Minister Duarte Cordeiro says that we must propose measures to combat drought in this House. Minister, that's what we do! That is what the bank of the Arrival has repeatedly done in this legislature. Unfortunately, the PS bench lead, lead, lead! Lead, roundly and always, our proposals, as a huge compressor roll. In fact, it rains too much or it rains little, sirs. Ministers, like Country, we need to grab water because water, as the history of humanity shows us, has always been the touchstone for many empires, including the Roman Empire or even the Muslim Empire. Mrs. Minister of Agriculture, who has been Minister of Agriculture since 2019, comes here to talk and, I am very sorry, Mrs. Minister speaks well, but unfortunately no one already believes in the ads she makes. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is true, Mrs. Minister. You know I have immense personal sympathy for you, but unfortunately, in the agricultural sector no one already believes in Mrs. Minister. I came now from the National Farming Fair, where I was with André Ventura, and the water problem was widely addressed. Look, we were also invited by CONFAGRI (National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives and the Portugal Agricultural Credit CCRL) to be on its stand and, in fact, feel on the ground that water is an urgent matter and that concerns Portuguese farmers, because there is no strategic plan for water. In Bragança, in the West, in the Ribatejo – where they cry for the Tejo Project –, in the Alentejo, in the Algarve, throughout the country, farmers ask for a structural advance of the water, which was what the Party arrived here last week, and that is why we received the congratulations, but sadly, it was cylindrical by the bench of the Socialist Party. In the PRR we also see very little reflection of the water problem. There is Pisão, there is a water plan for the Algarve and now Mr. Minister comes to announce the Ocreza. Mr. Minister, the Ocreza has been announced by the Government of Socrates since 2010, but as Alvito. Since 2010 this dam is about to be made, but now the Socialist Government has changed its name, stopped calling it Alvito, with 500 cubic hectometers of capacity, and started calling it Ocreza, with less than 100 cubic hectometers of capacity, promising that now is what it will do, now it will be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u108	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u109	Here we will be to see if this dam is really going to be put into effect. We'll be there to see. The lack of water efficiency in agriculture is a stone that is thrown to farmers, who are accused of lack of efficiency in agriculture. Madam Agriculture Minister, you know very well that the lack of efficiency in agriculture is mainly in the transport of water, in the poor state of the valleys, in the bad state of the canals and in the poor state of the behaviour that your government does not have to arrange. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In fact, the Party has already presented here a proposal on the serious situation that exists in Coimbra, in the riziculture of Coimbra, but that will also have been plunged by the Socialist Party. We know that since 2015 the PS has not been able to emancipate the political protectorate of the PCP and the Left Block which, therefore, were totally against the construction of new dams. Let's see if the PS now really knows how to run the water plans and if it's going to take a step forward and stop prohibiting the use of water for farmers, in the face of this problem that is present to us. Mr. Minister, to conclude, I would like to know what your vision is to transform the 750 000 ha that are available south of the Tagus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u110	A beautiful garden!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u111	...to be transformed into a stream, which would be a great leap forward for our food security, for our food sovereignty. The Minister spoke in 80 and so much, but she knows perfectly that this refers essentially to the numbers of oil and tomato, because in the meat, fish, fruit, we are far below our food sovereignty. Therefore, south of the Tejo, we have 750 000 ha available to be converted into a regádio. But for that, water needs to reach the south of the country. What the country is going to do to structurally have a territorial cohesion...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u112	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u113	...in the water that doesn't exist today? We really need to do something about it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u114	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u115	Mr President, Minister, as I said recently, I wanted to talk about structural things in this second round because I think it is not worth spending Latin, since we all agree: water is a serious problem, it needs structural solutions rather than mere remedies. So, almost to the multiple-choice test bay, you have here half a dozen structural solutions, and you asked him to tell me later, in his final intervention: what importance it attaches to each of these solutions; what is being done, in case of attributing importance; until, that is, what is the timetable of this; in terms of concrete objectives, in cubic hectometers, what each of these things should represent in the solution of the problem. First solution: efficiency of networks and problem resolution of losses in water distribution systems. Second: reuse of waste or rainwater. Third : desalination, that we've already talked a little bit about in the first round, so if you want to jump over this solution be at ease, although it's strange we're almost having a party here because we're with a central and a half, when our Spanish friends are on their way to 70. Fourth: interconnection between different water systems and water basins. Quinta : other water storage structures, new dams, etc. Sixth: recharge of aquifers. For each of these solutions, I would like to know whether or not it is important to you, and whether or not it is part of the solution card, or whether or not it is anticipated that something will happen. I am saving the time left to address a question to Mr. Secretary of State for Agriculture, Mr. Gonçalo Rodrigues, and to congratulate him, because I have found a presentation of his — 2020, now exactly 3 years ago — on water efficiency in agriculture. I must tell you, without any irony, that it is of the best-made things about water efficiency, giving the desire to recommend all of you. Members who also see it, and who know more about what certainly does not fit into a presentation. Much could have been said, showing that Mr. Engineer is indeed familiar with this matter and that he actually brought to the Ministry of Agriculture something that was very lacking, which is concrete knowledge of agriculture. You show everything that is being investigated and seen, in terms of water efficiency in agriculture, and, after explaining the various alternative solutions that are being applied, in various places in the world—among several things that are being investigated—has a slide in which you ask which part is missing to join the much that is being investigated as much as you needed to be applied. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. I would like to paraphrase this slide to your situation today and ask you what you are asking for, or perhaps, what you are asking is that it is the most that prevents this from happening — that your knowledge translates into concrete policies that help Portuguese agriculture, in particular with regard to water efficiency. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u116	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: Minister Duarte Cordeiro, I did not refer to the issue of storage in albums, that is not what we are talking about. What we are talking about is a strategy — and that is what is needed! — having a water balance for each basin, with availability, but also with needs, so that, in case of needs being lower than availability, a priority of uses, in accordance with the criteria that are deemed necessary, there may be a need to restrict certain uses. It's not like some parties coming here with desalinizer orders — 10, 20 desalinizers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u118	30!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u119	... when there are other investments that need to be made — or with transvases to draw water from the north to the south of the country. We have not come with these orders, because we believe that agriculture that is produced in the territory needs to adapt to the water availability of the territory, not the other way around. That's what we're defending. Unfortunately, the government has not held a position other than that of the parties who have defended an opposing position. I also asked you what the government's assessment in the rest of the country is. The drought situation was declared in 63 municipalities, but in these councils, the latifundium predominates. And in the mini-fundiós councils in Trás-os-Montes, what is the government's assessment, particularly by the end of May, in the face of the very worrying drought situation in these councils? Then the Minister said that water does not run into conflict, but the truth is that there are conflicts around water issues, as was seen here in the debate that we are having this afternoon. One of the conflicts has to do with the perspective we have on water: whether water should be a right, a public good, universal access, or whether, on the contrary, it should be handed over to privatization and liberalisation, as some advocate. The lobby of privatization of water supply is felt all over the world, but it also makes itself felt in Portugal, where it has a face, and this face is called AEPSA (Association of Portuguese Companies for the Environment Sector), which in July 2021 filed a complaint against Portugal, because we consider State aid illegal to public companies in the water sector, and is against the limitations of market access by private companies. It was the complaint made in 2021 by this association that AEPSA. in this letter, EPSA further notes that the situation in Portugal is a good illustration of the disadvantages of the exclusion of the water sector of the concession directive. Now, Minister, since this concession directive is being revised again, we would like to know and ask what the Portuguese Government's position is. Are you going to align with AEPSA? Or does the Portuguese Government consider that water should even be excluded from this directive and should it not therefore be included in the sectors granting private enterprises? We would like to know what the government thinks and what it will defend in Brussels. Finally, another directive under review is that of waste and urban waters. In the light of the obvious costs that this directive will bring—or that the revision will bring, because there are new requirements from the point of view of sanitation—what does the Government intend to do? Give more funding so that municipalities and managing entities can have the ability to meet these requirements or, on the contrary, will continue to underfinance these investments and thus, and indirectly, legitimize delivery to private individuals,... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... not only water, but also the waste sector, which is a very desirable sector, as you can see here for some reactions to this intervention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u120	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u121	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Minister for Agriculture: I will continue with some questions, and some of them even repeat, because, as I said in my initial speech — and I think that it is important to have this notion — it cannot be the same. The Minister of Agriculture told us that water efficiency plans, water use savings, agriculture are being thought and implemented. The truth is, however, that from the point of view of the matrix and the essence of the agricultural model—in particular in regions where it is more pernicious, with regard to the use of water, in particular in Algarve and Alentejo, with the intensive use of irrigation—we do not see this paradigm change. Mr Minister, on this point, we really need a paradigm background change. So I would like to ask — until it was something that the Minister of Agriculture himself announced on 23 May that less-water-consuming crops would be encouraged, and that eventually the Government would not authorize more permanent olive crops, avocados and red fruits, particularly those of intensive use of water — whether or not the decree in this sense exists or whether or not it will exist? Indeed, without changing this basic paradigm, we will not actually be able to respond to this problem. But there are other measures that would be necessary to effectively change the paradigm. Linking to this issue of agriculture, for example, we have the question of moratoriums on the licensing of agricultural projects, and others, of intensive water consumption. I wonder if the government is or is not available to move forward with these types of moratoriums in a more consistent way and at the same time use science, but also tradition, which has been used for many decades in certain cultures—but which has ceased to be used—and which had already, in itself, this forecast that water is a very scarce and needs to be used well. We also need other materials, such as investment in water retention basins in urban areas. I wonder whether this amendment to the Water Act, which the Minister of the Environment here has announced to us — the planning and the transition of agriculture to crops with less water, but also from the point of view of management in urban areas, the planning to prevent the loss of water still occurring in certain parts of the territory. As far as water management itself is concerned, we probably need, from our point of view, to have in this case a look at the management of water and its distribution which is public, which has criteria of public interest, because everyone here says the same thing — water is an essential good. However, it is not enough to say that water is an essential asset. If water is an essential asset to life itself, then we must treat it as such, which means treating it and recognizing it as something of public interest, as well as public good, which cannot be at the mercy of private interests. From that point of view, I would also like to see what the Government's view is about the experiences that have already existed of privatization, particularly in the distribution of water, and whether there is any prospect that this can be adopted again, since, Mr President, it is on the table. Ministers, that would be the end of any integrated public water management policy that we now need for the territory. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u122	Good afternoon to all and to all, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Continuing our agenda, for an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u123	Madam President, Minister of the Environment: We have just been unaware of the state of the National Water Plan as well as the Atlas of Climate Rivers. We hope that you will be able to answer in this second round. in this second intervention, taking into account the short time available, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture about one of the scourges that hits some districts in the country — and which questions water resources, in particular our rivers — which is linked to the effluents of livestock. This is, in fact, a problem we have heard in some hearings, but it is still being pushed with the belly. Then, even with regard to the issues of water waste in our country, we must bear in mind that we must not only have more precision, but also avoid this phenomenon. It is a phenomenon in which we cannot in any way accept that before arriving at the tap the equivalent of 197 Olympic pools of water is lost, at a cost of 90 million euros a year. This waste harms the municipalities, but also the different entities that lack water to operate. in this sense, the government had announced that, on the one hand, it would increase the tariff for large water consumers in 43 municipalities that were in critical situation. I ask you, Minister, what results can you have on the implementation of this recommendation? On the other hand, there is also the need for smarter networks. It is essential that smarter networks exist so that water losses are avoided until they reach the tap, with the placement, for example, of specific sensors or tools of artificial intelligence, which can also be an ally in different activities. Therefore, we would like to know what the government is doing so that these two tools can be allied, either in the municipal part, or in the part of the different activities, namely agriculture, or even tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u124	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u125	Madam President: There is no water, there is no agriculture and there is no food, that is part of the equation. The other part of the equation, more complicated, less virtuous than this one, is when some farms, and I wanted to focus, in particular, on pig growing in the region of Lis and the West, produce food in a way that ends up polluting, polluting water courses that are essential for certain regions of the country. The Livre presented a draft resolution in this House which urged the Government to consider assessing, in the allocation of subsidies to agricultural holdings, in particular these intensive livestock farms, the adoption of measures to reduce environmental impacts and to make this allocation of subsidies dependent on the fact that these holdings have a relationship with the effluents that enable us to preserve as closely as possible the Lis basin and its affluents. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about this aspect, which is local, which is regional, but which is very important and which may even have European impacts at a certain level, in particular with regard to respect, the redundancy of the Water Framework Directive. I would also like to ask Mr Environment Minister a very quick question which has to do with the international plan. We have an agreement with Spain, the Albufeira Convention, with regard to the management of international waters, and we know that if we review it, it will probably be revised in a way that is not advantageous to Portugal. Question : To what extent are actions planned if there is a breach of the Water Framework Directive itself? This is where the Spanish State, as has already happened with Ireland and the Netherlands, may have to face possible violations of the Water Framework Directive, in the Court of Justice of the European Union, in particular because of transvases between basins flowing to Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u126	You've doubled the time, but you can go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u127	...and for which we may be harmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u128	Before I give the floor to the members of the Government to speak on this point, and as I recently did not, I congratulate the Minister, the Minister and the Ministers. State Secretaries. Now, yes, I give the floor to Mrs. Minister for Agriculture and Food, Maria do Céu Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u129	Madam President, I would also like to congratulate you. I am grateful once again for the questions raised and for the opportunity to address this plenary to give the explanations that time so allows, because it is short. I'd like to start by saying that we don't expect it to rain and we don't pray for that to happen, we really make things happen. If that were not the case in the last decade, there would have been no saving of 48 % of the water. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We clearly see that we had 20% of the use under pressure and 80% of the use in the water by gravity and, at present, it happens precisely the opposite, which makes us produce more and less, feeling responsible for continuing to work in this way. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to extraordinary support, I would like to say that we do not have extraordinary support for drought or any other support for 2022 to pay farmers, except for the EUR 5 million they are due, but because it is necessary for farmers to change their NIB(bank identification number) or other data, if they are wrong, and that they are preventing us from helping them. More than EUR 100 million was paid, in which half was the State budget and the other half of the measures linked to the common agricultural policy. I would also like to say — and it has already been mentioned here by Colleague Duarte Cordeiro — that, in fact, we have worked very hard, particularly in order to be able to give extraordinary support to electricity by the end of the week, to coloured diesel and, by the end of the month, to contribute more than EUR 180 million, which we have approved in the European Commission in record time for State aid.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u130	I'm sorry that didn't come to the Azores and Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u131	With the State budget on the continent, we are helping Portuguese farmers to produce to stabilize consumer prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u132	They forgot the islands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u133	But we did not stop: at the last Council of Ministers in Brussels we made a formal request that we could have access to the agricultural reserve and, on the basis of this, to help farmers who are being most affected by the floods, the heavy rain, the hail and the drought. Our request was signed by Spain, France and Italy and we were supported by the generality of the Member States that had the opportunity to intervene. We hope that until 12 days the rules will be known so that we can continue to help farmers, because they are not missing, as we have not missed the pandemic, helping them extraordinarily to be able to produce more with less. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament until 2027, we hope to complete a set of interventions of around EUR 1200 million with regard to the National Regadios Programme, funded by the PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2020 ) and the EIB ( European Investment Bank ), withdrawing surplus funds from the PDR 2020 so that we can get rid of the EIB's bureaucracy and accelerate the investments being made. What is missing, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, is now planned in the PRR and it is with the PRR that we are financing this dimension between science and technology at the service of farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u134	Now...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u135	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u136	And, yes, until 2026, we will conclude what we are doing in the Algarve, because we have a commitment with that community to diversify the economy of that territory, based on the use of water. I wanted to tell you that today, or tomorrow, an office will be published...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u137	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u138	...my and the Minister of the Environment to be able to simplify, transform what we think is structural to create small uses of water: shells.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u139	We've been asking for this for so long!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u140	It's exactly the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u141	We have already put EUR 24 million here last year, and now we have 10 more to be able to do with the taskforce that we have presented a work that is essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u142	They've already got rid of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u143	We do not want to use groundwater, we want to take advantage of these waters that rain in large quantities and less times so that we can help farmers, particularly in drought systems, in the most extensive systems. That is absolutely decisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u144	And exactly the same as last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u145	We really want to work on this dimension because we know that water storage is crucial. We must have this capacity, altering and cleaning dams, as well as empowering the existing uses to accommodate more water and save more. I mean saving more on hydro-agricultural uses, putting them under pressure and putting photovoltaic panels to ensure the energy efficiency of these uses, as we are doing in Alqueva, with 75 million euros running. thus, we can reduce the energy bill and put water at the service of agriculture with lower costs. I also wanted to say that we do not exhaust our intervention only in the efficient use of water, we are also doing so in relation to the soil. We are working for increasingly sustainable production, in which organic farming and integrated production in the most intensive systems will help to spend less water and preserve more soil—this in addition to regenerative agriculture in the most extensive systems. We really want to work on the economic dimension with the social and environmental dimensions. For us, all food options are important. We do not see our production system without animals that help us preserve our forest, combat and prevent forest fires, and that is what we want to continue working on. More: from the very beginning, we have done what we thought was essential. Yes, we have had contingency measures, Mrs Deputies, for example with the moratorium we made in the Mira, because there are no new cultures until the level is restored in the dam of Santa Clara, or with what we have done for all precarious regimes, in which only cultures can be altered if we can really spend the same water, or less, with the installation of efficient systems. I would have to say more, but I will leave the rest for my closing intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u146	For an intervention, also on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Duarte Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will seek, as in the first speech, concrete and non-abstract, as many speeches I have heard here. What is needed in the country is solidarity in regions that are scarce, between regions in the country and between sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u149	Mr Rui Cristina : ETAR (residual water treatment station) of Vilamoura — launch of the undertaking in July of this year; ETAR of Quinta do Lago — launch of the undertaking in July of this year; ETAR of Boavista — expected completion in October of this year; ETAR of Albufeira — ongoing implementation project, with completion in December. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the information I have from the Waters of Portugal and APA.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u150	We don't have one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u151	Mr Member: Strengthening the Sotavento-Barlavento link — project of implementation awarded, launch of the undertaking in July of this year; solution of water intake in Pomarão — study completed to be delivered for environmental impact assessment in June of this year; desalinizer — study completed to be delivered for environmental impact study in June of this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u152	Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u153	I already said the location is Albufeira. Concrete, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u154	This is only in the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u155	Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho, all the restrictions we apply last year to electricity production are in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u156	I spoke in 2021! Last year it was 2022!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u157	There is no restriction on the production of electricity, because we have quotas above the restriction in these dams. This is to say that we have learned, contrary to what you have learned. Ladies and gentlemen were saying. We applied measures last year and we evolved this year, they are in force, but if there is a need, if we reduce the quota, the restriction will come into force. Mrs. Mr Frazão and Mr Pinto want to launch a debate, and I will be pleased. The Minister of Agriculture said very well that there is a commitment on the part of the environment to try to support the challenge of licensing charcas. What do we have to do in return? We are more stringent in the control of groundwater. What does it mean to be stricter in groundwater control? It is, of course, and if we can, in the amendment of the Water Law, give the possibility that, in situations like these, we have the ability to intervene, monitor, monitor and, if necessary, reduce consumption. Regardless of being private, we must realize that, in a drought context, water is everyone's, so we also need to control groundwater more clearly. So we're available to take these measures and we'd like to see if you guys are. Members are also available to take these measures with regard to legislative amendments. We are available to do it and this is the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u159	Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, we have measures to reduce losses in all water efficiency plans and use of rainwater. We've had a chance to talk about the desalinizers. With regard to aquifer recharges, yes, we will do with re-use water and we have re-use water projects in all water efficiency plans. As far as dams are concerned, we've already assumed, we've got Alvito's dam in the Ocreza River. It continues to be called the « barrier of Alvito ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u160	Barragen! She's a little girl!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u161	In addition to that, we have the Fagilde dam and the Pission dam. It's three dams. We do not want to generalize, Mr President, I repeat, we do not want to generalize, but we also want to strengthen interlinkages between the water regions. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Mr Duarte Alves, the water efficiency plans are aimed at meeting the expectations that you have mentioned, and that is why we are doing them and adopting them. Water is public. I repeat, for us, water is public and, in this sense, there is no privatization of the Waters Group of Portugal. But, obviously, the municipalities have, as you know, the ability to determine what they want in the low distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u162	That's what I was saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u163	We will not change our position in principle on this matter and it was precisely because we had the ability to invest in water through the public sector, which we have achieved in the last 30 years to reach the levels of water quality and the level of sanitation we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u164	What about the concession directive?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u165	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I had the opportunity to reply to Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, but I repeat: the National Water Plan is to 2026 and we will start its review next year. Mr Rui Tavares, Spain has complied with the Albufeira Convention, Guadiana is in exception. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u166	Let's move on to the closing period. On behalf of the Government, Mrs Maria do Céu Antunes, Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said, today we are marking the World Day for Agriculture and Food Safety. One in 10 people is affected by poor food, food that already causes more than 200 diseases. In addition, we face a double challenge: climate urgency, unprecedented temperature increases and the necessary adaptation of agricultural production, while the world population will reach 10 billion people in the coming decades. Aware of this, we will increasingly have to produce more, with less resources, and therefore we are working to respond and correspond, mobilizing all instruments at our disposal in a vision that we want to integrate, holistic and coherent, and acting on two fronts: in conjunctural measures, with immediate impact, and in structural measures that aim to strengthen the resilience of the territories, valuing them, creating opportunities, promoting sustainable development and cohesion. Apart from the measures we have already taken and Portugal today already has 80% of the irrigation area equipped with efficient irrigation systems, we are working on structural measures that will provide the country with greater resilience capacity, better water management, preserving sustainability. It is in this sense that we are speeding up the implementation of the National Regadio Plan, a real reformist program that already has 72% of the 340 projects executed or in execution. We are talking about an investment that exceeds EUR 1100 million and will benefit the whole country, from the link of Monte da Rocha and the Block of the Kingdom of Messejana, the Water Circuit of RegWalls and the Water Block of Peral and the Vidigueira and the Hydraulic Use of Multiple Purposes of Crato, which will revolutionise agriculture in the Upper Alentejo — that among many others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are betting on the water efficiency of the regions, as we have already had the opportunity to mention here. In addition to the Regional Plan of Water Efficiency for Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, which now begins, we will still present this month the Regional Plan of Water Efficiency of Alentejo, which is already starting, even without having become public, because we know well the importance of doing. In addition to these structural measures, it was clear in this debate that, also, in the face of the conjunctural problems that we are experiencing, we must move forward and, with the collaboration of the Ministry of the Environment, we have created a green way for farmers to create their own water reservoirs — the tanks — which we will reinforce with more than 10 million euros so that, easily, without associated bureaucracy and without licensing in most cases, we can do this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, you and the ladies may. Farmers have our incentive to use new technologies to make water available to rustic buildings and to build better accessibility in areas benefiting from irrigation. This is essential for the competitiveness of agriculture systems and for the maintenance of the cultural diversification of our territory. We want to continue to bet on the immediate implementation of photovoltaic production in self-consumption—I remember that we have the first energy community in Roxo, so important already to reduce the energy bill by 30 % in that territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, it is always good to say that we look at all regions of our country, such as the High Alentejo. I am saying again that, alongside the Crato dam, whose funding is provided for in the PRR, we will continue to work for the installation of a water network as well as we want to work to put together treated waste water, which we have already used, so that we can increase our water availability throughout the territory. We want to democratize access to innovation in the production and application of knowledge and therefore we are mobilizing the PRR for that. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we launched the White Book of the Public Regadio and were listening to farmers in Alentejo, Algarve, Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, where we discussed the Tejo Project with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u168	You're going to Santarém, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u169	We have also been in the North and the Centre so that we can build a strategy that has very clear dimensions such as that of the governance model. It is important to review the legal regime for the management of hydro-agricultural uses, which is 30 years old and is not prepared to respond to what are the challenges of today. It is also important to ensure water availability by defining volumes to be allocated by culture or water area — it is up to the farmer to choose the crop he wants, depending on the water he has available. It is important to strengthen storage, study new limits for water perimeters and include precariouss, as well as ensure a tariff system that will also allow for fair and prioritize the strengthening of monitoring and monitoring. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we launch a task force to bring together efforts, this only demonstrates clearly that the government is united in what is one of the great designs of today, which is that we can have water in quantity and quality so that we can continue to feed the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must not forget that, when we water a plant and introduce it into our diet, it is water and are nutrients, in quantity and quality, that we are consuming and that will make our citizens healthier and better-being. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u170	To close this debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State : Water. The speaker raised a glass of water. This is a source of life. Water is born, evaporates, falls from the sky, loads the aquifers. [[Protests of PS Members.]] But now let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u172	You have to talk about the price!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u173	Now let's see, let's see: in this cup are household uses. The speaker showed a glass of water. in this cup are the uses to produce energy, in this are the uses of consumption of agriculture and in this of consumption of industry. The speaker transferred the glass water to four empty glasses. The water that fell in this operation may be that of the so-called water losses and now the glass is empty. The speaker showed the empty glass. This resource is not inundable. We must have the capacity to define an efficient management policy, which will ensure its proper use, minimizing losses, reusing treated waters and thus ensuring the future of our children. [[PSD applause.]] It's not enough to talk. It is necessary to have a holistic view of water and its use, without fundamentalism, without hypocrisy, but rather with a vertical and comprehensive policy to defend this resource. Year after year, when we arrived at this time, we began to watch the disturbances caused by water scarcity. The Portuguese are laughing — well, I don't know if they're laughing or if they actually cry! — those who pretend to care about these matters and do nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u174	And I'm the populist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u175	And, year after year, we discussed here the need for measures, with a political debate to be held hostage to announcements as we have seen today. The government always wants to show a glass with a lot of water, waving with measures it took, or pretended it took. The opposition criticizes the inadequacy of these measures and demands more action, as the glass is almost empty. The moral of history is that, year after year, the promises go beyond action and the resource goes away. [[PSD applause.]] It is not enough to say « there will be no water in the taps», we must have broad sights and act quickly. Our drink is the water policy of this government, which is anachronistic, excessively bureaucratic and deprived of the strategic investments necessary for the modernization of the sector. The PSD has called attention to the need to act on several fronts, presenting legislative proposals and initiatives, to have a water loss reduction plan, to make greater reuse of treated waste water. I know, Mr Minister, that you announced yesterday that you are going to act in this area, but look at a long way to go, because according to ERSAR (Regulatory Authority of Water Services and Waste), we only reuse 1, 2 % of the treated waters. The PSD also presented proposals to better protect aquifers and ensure their reload, to raise public awareness of water saving, to call on the Government to conclude the many plans behind schedule. The PS response has been rejection and, when approved, the government ignores it and refers to inertia and inaction. It's more or less like Carlão's music, Assobia to the Side.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u176	And I'm the populist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u177	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the 1980s, Portugal began a new cycle of water and sanitation policies, using Community funds, allowing the country's infrastructure and the provision of services that have not existed until then. There was one who called this transformation the "Portuguese miracle", given the level of delay that was recovered. Today, we are faced with the need for a new technological and organizational leap that will enable us to overcome the challenges posed by climate change and the increase in consumption. Public policy for water must be a factor of modernity, innovation, transformation, investment attraction. It is not enough to promise plans and pacts, which then do not come true, or create working groups and task force to study what is already known. The Government who so much likes to look at Spain and so much commends its governance should look at its example in the case of water. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The appropriations announced to combat the effects of drought and strengthen the availability of water are substantially different from those Portugal considers to invest through the PRR and Portugal 2030. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u178	It's only 48 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u179	Also in the strategy, the difference is abismal, contrasting with the apathy of our governance. Spain has created a program for the digitization of the water cycle, which has allocated EUR 3000 million to control losses and increase water efficiency, introducing automation and artificial intelligence, involving companies and society, with a strong component dedicated to irrigation. They estimate, with this, generating more than 3,500 jobs. In Portugal, we cannot wait for it to rain or the desert to arrive. There is a need for a future bet on water networks, innovation and knowledge, water efficiency and precision agriculture, pointing to the sustainability and creation of green jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate has shown that there is much to be done in the water field and that it is consensual that we need to manage this critical resource better. The PSD has made several contributions and presented several proposals and will continue to do so in the coming weeks. We will present new initiatives and will insist on what should have been approved and being in progress. But the PSD also understands that it is time to review our Water Law. We understand that this important piece of our legal order should be reviewed and updated in the light of the new challenges we face, with a focus on water efficiency and the modernization of the sector in the face of climate change. In essence, this law is the basis of our water policy and it is the basis that we must begin to act, even by its symbolic character and framer. The revision of the Water Law must start from a participatory and comprehensive process that allows various entities to be heard with different perspectives. That is why we are going to propose that a working group be set up on the review of the Water Law in the Committee on the Environment and Energy... [[PS, CH and PCP rice.]] ... to conduct hearings with various agents of the sector and society. [[PSD applause.]] To do this - I am speaking in the Committee on Environment and Energy - we have already made a request with a preliminary list of 25 entities to be heard. Finally, Madam President, regarding water management, we should also seek knowledge and consensus to have a more current law and to be able to respond to the challenges facing the country. Water is our most strategic resource and we must be able to manage it competently. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Finally, we have to do for all of us, for the planet, but essentially for all those generations that come there and that deserve the opportunity to live in a world where water continues to be the source of life. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u180	What about the water glasses? That's waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u181	But I'm the populist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u182	I take this opportunity to say good-bye to Mrs. and Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries and to tell Mr. Hugo Oliveira that, when I saw him transferring water from one glass to the other, I thought I was going to do here a recreation of that painting of the White Castle, Last Supper, only that he used wine instead of using water and used 12 glasses. I would now like to congratulate the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State, and we shall turn to point 2 of our agenda, with the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 74 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy for the biennium 2023 - 2025, and of Bill No. 804 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the conditions under which the Public Prosecutor and the criminal police bodies define and implement the priorities and guidelines corresponding to the objectives of criminal policy ( first amendment to Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May approving the Framework Law on Criminal Policy ) and 805 / XV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs measures to strengthen criminal investigation and criminal jurisdiction as priorities of criminal policy. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long agenda today, our agenda is quite extensive and if there is disturbance in the work, with Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, and if you don't keep quiet, then we'll take more time. To submit Law No 74 / XV / 1. a, has the floor to Ms. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conduct of the country's general policy comprises different dimensions, the policies of security and the fight against the crime of its fundamental emanations. The decision-making of this seat must have as a chandelier the proposals given by criminal policy, not only in view of the legal goods to be protected criminally, but also in the path to the implementation of this protection, ensuring the prevention and legal-criminal repression. It was precisely in the light of this framework that the Framework Law of 2006 laid down the frameworks in which the conduct of criminal policy must be based, determining that it should be in a biennial cadence. This is the plan that brings me here, to present the bill that defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy for the two years 2023 - 2025. On the basis of the merits, it should be noted that the options taken were based on the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) of 2021, updated with the data of 2022, in a concerted reading with the analyses of EUROPOL ( European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation ( European Police Network ), in particular the European Union Serious and Organized Crime Assessment Report, and the European Multidisciplinary Platform against Criminal Threats, in terms of transnational crime trends, in its various dimensions of materiality and gravity. With regard to the lines of force of the proposal, I begin by saying that there is generally continuity with regard to the forecasts that underpinned the definition contained in the previous law, because there were no significant changes in the prevailing criminal phenomena justifying a complete strategic reorientation. Still, there are significant novelties, mainly justified by the prevalence of phenomena, by anticipation of growth trends, or by their social impact. Having said this, I highlight the introduction of general objectives of an adjective nature in the text of the articulated, focused on ensuring speed and procedural effectiveness. With regard to the identification of particularly deserving crimes of priority prevention, due to the dignity of protected legal goods and the need to protect potential victims, I stress, in the context of crimes against people, the inclusion of gender-based violence and juvenile crime, which, in particular, are associated with domestic violence or sports crimes, already included in this headquarters. In terms of the crimes against property, I refer to the extension to the abuse of the guarantee card or card, payment devices or data and the mockery committed through computer or communications. In the context of crimes against cultural identity and personal integrity, I stress the extension of the causes of discrimination and incitement to hatred and violence. As for the avulva legislation, the crime of aid to illegal immigration as well as fraud in obtaining subsidies was added. As regards priority research crimes—because of their seriousness and in order to avoid their future practice—in the context of crimes against people, crimes committed in an organized manner or in the context of group violence, which are associated with the crimes already covered, such as murder, domestic violence, trafficking in persons, and crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination or against the physical integrity committed against or by officials of authority, were included. In the crimes against the estate, the theft on the public street was added to the theft in homes with a firearm or a white gun. And, in the avulse legislation, drug trafficking was added to the prison environment, due to the multiple internal consequences. It also deserves special attention to the focus on victims of crime that this proposal also assumes, setting out the commitment of the Government to promote the creation of two Offices of Support for the Victim ( GAV ) of domestic and gender violence in each calendar year, always in conjunction with the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic ( PGR ), which we have already honored this year, establishing new Offices of Support for the Victim, in Aveiro and in Porto-Este. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The protection of the victim and the compensation of the damage suffered by it are priority, which is also part of the National Crime Victim Protection Strategy, which has been designed by the government with numerous partners. In order to prevent the crime associated with sport, the link between the various entities is strengthened and we can even advance, in particular, that the Judicial Police will be responsible for the national platform aimed at combating the manipulation of sports competitions, within the framework of a legislative package in which the Secretary of State for Youth and Sport has been working and has already reached this House in part. On the other hand, the prevention of recurrence is marked here by a practical innovation of great importance: the specific programmes become communicated annually to the Superior Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, by the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services. Along with this legal obligation now created, the Government is working on a computer application that will improve information and communication. These are the main differential solutions, which are expected, for the hiatus of 2023 - 2025. It is necessary that the great criminal policy options are based on objective data and materialize in an adjusted manner to the criminal reality ahead. The Government's proposal that I bring you here today fulfils this plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u184	I was just seeing no one beat their hands! You weren't listening to Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u185	The Minister has made you tired!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u186	To submit Law Nos 804 and 805 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We would like to take advantage of the government's priority law to discuss two projects that seem worthy of debate and reflection. With regard to the first project, for more than 15 years, since it was provided for in the Framework Law on Criminal Policy in 2006, the CFP states that these laws of criminal policy priorities have a dilemma — a problem, a sin, if we wish — originating, which is this: or the law establishes with some effect the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy, which is therefore not compatible with respect for the principle of legality, nor with the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor and the independence of the judiciary; or, on the contrary, to ensure this compatibility, its rules end up in such a vague and generic way that it does not benefit from the objectives, priorities and guidelines. A good example of this lack of law in terms of which it is foreseen is that between 2011 and 2015 no law on the definition of objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy has been adopted and, of course, these objectives, priorities and guidelines have not ceased to exist. With no specific law on these two benefits, it was of course the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal police bodies who defined them, in accordance with the legal framework, in respect of the principle of legality and in compliance with the objectives of preventing and repressing crime and repairing the resulting individual and social damage, taking into account the concrete needs of defending legal goods. That is why the CFP brings forward a proposal for the consideration of the general objectives set out in Article 4. the Criminal Policy Framework Act, and the criminal policy options, which find concrete translation into the criminal law and criminal proceedings in force in the most diverse domains, i.e. — yes! — the reference framework. From this point of departure, it is proposed that it be the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal police bodies, in accordance with their statute, laws of judicial organization, organic laws, to define the priorities and guidelines that correspond to them, for a period of two years and with the time of evaluation of their implementation by the Assembly of the Republic, ending each two years. This has several advantages. It not only enables those who are such a dilemma arising from the policy of criminal policy priorities, but also take advantage of the advantages that a definition of priorities and guidelines may have in order to give more effective action by the Public Prosecutor and the criminal policy bodies. However, it safeguards — and this is the question — the investigation and the criminal police bodies and the Public Prosecutor's Office, with regard to the involvement of political power in the field of the judiciary and conditioning, which may exist, with regard to the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office itself. On the other hand, the fact is that there is no investigation and no means to combat crime. The government can prioritize this world and the other, but without the necessary conditions for the work of the Judicial Police, the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, nothing done. This is the major priority to be discussed, since the greatest obstacle to the effectiveness of criminal investigation and criminal action and to the realization of justice is precisely the lack of human resources. Therefore, we present this second project on strengthening this dimension of resources in the judicial police, judicial officials and support offices, counseling and technical consulting to judicial magistrates and the Public Ministry. The degree of complexity, organization and sophistication of the most serious crime, the delay in expertise due to the lack of specialized personnel, the insufficiency of financial experts—among other technicians—are central problems. The lack of judicial officials, the overall ageing of the framework and the generational imbalances, related to the devaluation of wages, careers and working conditions of professionals, need a response. The same applies to the establishment and operation of support offices, advice and technical consultancy to judicial magistrates and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Investment is required for this. This must also be — or this is — a great priority. Without this reinforcement, nothing done, and that is what the PCP project intends to overcome. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u188	Having concluded the presentation of legislative initiatives, we will move on to the debate period. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u189	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Criminal policy is an essential legal instrument, because this is where the general objectives of criminal policy are defined, through the prevention, repression and reduction of crime, promoting the defence of legal property, the protection of victims and the reintegration of crime agents into society. For this reason, we must not fail to mention and regret that an expired law, since September 2022, has only come to this Parliament for nine months to be discussed. Again, it is evident proof of the incompetence of this socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u191	For the Liberal Initiative, and contrary to what happens in this bill, in defining these objectives that are under consideration today, we cannot ignore the current international geopolitical context, with new threats that may have an impact on the internal security of our country and which, consequently, require an adequacy of our justice system. On the other hand, and as we have already had the opportunity to mention, one of the issues that must be a priority in this new policy is the fight against domestic violence. Despite the progress that has been made in recent years, there is still much to be done while this is a national scourge that reaches not only women but also men, children and the elderly. This is a clear example of the degradation of the social functions of the State, which results in the failure of resources affected by the prevention, protection and support of victims, even though they are provided for in the law. To ensure the support, security and trust that victims of domestic violence need, there is an urgent need for efficient coordination of all actors involved in the process, from criminal police to health, social security and justice institutions. It is certainly one of the crimes that deserves special treatment in this proposal, which is done, and we therefore welcome this concern, but we should warn that the pursuit of these intentions should be efficient, so that the numbers that shock us all whenever we talk about this issue will finally begin to fall. At the same time, and according to the Annual Internal Security Reports of 2021 and 2022, both group crime and organized youth crime are increasing in a systematic and worrying way, reflecting the current socio-economic situation and the loss of purchasing power, especially the most disadvantaged. We therefore urge that, despite having regard to these objectives in the proposal, the continuation of these types of crimes should not be ignored or underestimated. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal was announced by the Minister as a dialogue proposal and which provides for topics that are generally everyone's concerns. But, unfortunately, this initiative and this debate are stained by the incompetence of the Socialist Party, which is not prepared in due time, which does not foresee what it should foresee and which, as all Portuguese have already used, is always running behind the damage. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u192	Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u193	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In drafting this proposed law ( PPL) for criminal investigation, the Government has established a set of priorities for prevention and criminal investigation, taking into account, inter alia, the guidelines contained in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024. But it is enough to consult the Government's proposal to see that these concerns have not been transposed into the text of the law. Indeed, the Government has proposed to define, as the first specific objective of criminal policy, the prevention and repression of violent crime, especially violent or highly organized crime, group crime, youth violence, identity fraud, economic-financial crime, terrorism and related crime, domestic violence, gender violence, crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination, aid to illegal immigration, forest fire, crimes against nature and the environment and road crime. However, not one word concerning corruption. Not a word about other related crimes, such as influence trafficking, money laundering, speculation or economic participation in business. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on prevention and combating corruption, the curriculum of this government is not the happiest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u195	The so-called National Anti-Corruption Strategy, launched in 2021, is far from being an effective operational tool. From the moment that no guidelines or monitoring plans are provided, the result can only be of poor quality and slow implementation, particularly with regard to the prevention of corruption in the public sector. It is urgent to adopt an effective commitment by the State to combating corruption by eliminating this important factor of national impoverishment, as we have already mentioned. It is necessary to criminally pursue ethical failures and misleading practices, as well as opacity in the management of public interests and money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u197	Effective measures must be taken against the development of the judicial system, against the complexity of the tax system, against the endemic lack of means of investigation by the police and against the high administrative costs of carrying out justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]] More than anything else, it is necessary to put an end to the constant perception of impunity and capture of the powers that corruption always brings with it. We cannot ignore that the level of corruption in Portugal is substantially EUR 20 billion per year. We therefore consider the adoption of measures with practical and effective scope in the fight against corruption as a priority, which, in fact, has already been proposed several times and which have merited the leadership of the Socialist Party. This is the case, for example, of the proposals for amendments to the State budget aimed at strengthening the fight against corruption, fraud and economic-financial crime, strengthening the recruitment of judges in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the implementation of an anti-subordination management system. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival will always follow any proposals which have as their primary objective the fight against these types of crimes. Combating corruption is encouraging prosperity and investment, creating opportunities and enhancing the capacities of Portugal and Portuguese. This is a good fight and it is worth stopping you. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u199	Madam President, Minister : We understand that, indeed, the framework law has a purpose and a purpose that is worthy. We also understand the importance of giving priority to certain crimes that justify it, as is the unquestionable case of domestic violence. However, there are some dimensions that we cannot disassociate from the lack of means. And looking at what has been the policy of defining guidelines, priorities, it is clear that it has not been sufficient to deal with these scourges, even economic crimes or corruption. What is then not understood is how other types of crime phenomena are left out of this list. I am talking about, for example, the trafficking in species, which has already consisted of this cast and was withdrawn in the previous biennium. I'm also talking about crimes against pets. We cannot, on one day, acknowledge everyone's connection with violence against people, particularly domestic violence, and then not put them on the list of crimes against society. We have left only the environment — and well so far — but it does not include, for example, crimes against pets, knowing well their relationship and the escalation of violence against people. in this sense, it seems to us that there is a path that will necessarily have to be done in specialty. In previous years, the NAP proposals aimed at including this matter have been rejected, and we hope that this year the Government will have another opening to deepen and densify these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u201	Madam President, Minister : I have four questions about this law of priorities, objectives and guidelines of criminal policy. The first concerns the warning of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy to the wrong form as the bill brings into question or may call into question the independence of the judges within its institutional organization. Because they are not subject to orders or instructions, the President of the District Court may not, as the proposed law provides, check whether there are procedures set out as priorities under this Act, which are pending for time considered excessive, or which are not resolved within reasonable time. Therefore, what I ask you is whether there is any new doctrine that the Government wishes to impose, or that it wishes to provide for in this law, which subjects the judges to their respective presidents of the comarca courts in a hierarchical manner different from that which exists. The second question has to do with the priority given to preventing the recurrence of crime. As a worthy objective—that is, I believe, shared unanimously in Parliament—it raises a fundamental question, which is the following: how does this objective come out of role? How does the Minister get you out of the paper? It is that the bill makes it clear that this is only a problem of communication and dissemination of current reintegration programmes. But that's an envious vision. Just listen to social reintegration technicians to realize that the problem is structural and is very related to human resources and the lack of a professional career. So the question is whether you will continue to ignore the demands of these professionals. The third question relates to the coordination of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the Act, the Labour Conditions Authority, in particular with regard to issues related to the prevention of trafficking in persons for the purpose of labour exploitation. So the question also follows the previous one: how will the conditions of combat and prevention of exploitation and trafficking of human beings be improved without more means? The fourth question, which is inevitable and conclusive, is: what will be done about the missing means of criminal police and the various institutions with criminal responsibility? There are the integrated specialized sections of domestic violence, all right, and more shelter houses, but what happened to the integrated sections of domestic violence and their pilot projects? With regard to economic-financial crime, to crimes commonly known as "white collar crimes" or "corruption crimes", the President himself said that there are many decisions and wishes that then forget that the means are scarce and that the number of investigations in the field of economic-financial crime has increased every year, as well as the complexity of the processes under investigation, unlike the political agents - Mr. President of the Public Ministry Magistrates' Union - who forget that the judiciary until recently had a serious lack of human resources, which severely limited its ability to respond. It is on these matters that I ask the Minister to speak. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u202	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u203	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: A debate on criminal policy is a debate about how we deal with crime, and how we deal with crime is one of the main tests for our civilization, which obliges us to think about complex and choices about order and freedom, about collective interests and individual rights, about the role of the State and what degree of suffering it can inflict on people through punishment. These issues are very complex, they cannot be treated as legal matters, because we are actually confronted with choices that are important in the lives of all people, not only those who practice crimes and those who are victims, but all people. I'll give you two examples. When in 2000 we made a choice of fundamental criminal policy and decriminalized the consumption of all drugs, we were able to treat those we had previously arrested. And when, in 2007, we described abortion until 10 weeks of pregnancy, illegal abortion ceased to be the third cause of death of women in Portugal. That's what we're talking about. This is criminal politics. And it's not like it's all done. He's not. I chose these examples of the decriminalization of drug use and abortion, because it seems clear that there are blockades and that we need to face, so that the choices of criminal policy made by this Parliament correspond to the practice of everyday life. But criminal policy is not just this, it is not just choosing what criminalizes and what decriminalizes. And from 2006 onwards, with the Framework Law on Criminal Policy, we found that it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to define what are the crimes of prevention and priority research. It is also clear, as Mrs Alma Rivera has already said, that criminal justice continues to operate even if there are no guidelines on criminal policy. And that is, of course, because, in a system like Portuguese, in which the Public Prosecutor is obliged to open an investigation whenever he has news of a crime and investigates all crimes, it is obvious that criminal justice continues to operate even if there are no criminal policy guidelines. However, from the moment we decided in 2006 that these choices should exist, these choices must fall to this Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, we do not follow the PCP bill, which wants to give the Public Prosecutor the competence to make these choices. It seems clear to us that anyone who executes criminal policy, such as the Public Ministry, cannot make criminal policy options and that this is clearly contrary to Article 219. the Constitution. Therefore, the government has done what it owes. I have brought us your proposal for political-criminal priorities and now it is up to us to do our part. The Council's opinions are generally very favourable, and there are three aspects of this bill that I would like to emphasise. First, the criminal policy options we have here were not made to the flower of the skin, based on news reports in the media. On the contrary, the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry expressly refers to the « broad and clear ground », I am quoting, and the attention given to « objective data on the evolution of crime not only from RASI, but also from reports of European structures such as Europol. Do not keep on seeking. ” Secondly, the rights of victims are elected as an effective priority and it is very clear that protecting the victims requires, above all, a commitment to prevent and repair the damage and that protecting the victims does not imply a worsening of the penalties. Finally, I would also like to stress that it is very clear that we need to bet, more than we have done, on the reintegration of crime officers. On the bill, I wanted to leave another note. Mr Rui Afonso said that there is no single word in the PPL on prevention of corruption, and I asked Mr Rui Afonso to look into Article 5. the, point (d), which expressly refers to corruption as a priority of criminal investigation and therefore what he said is absolutely inverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u204	It's just a point!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u205	It has to do with a magnifying glass!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u206	It is true, of course, that none of this can be achieved without means, and they have all emphasized it. They all said that this cannot be achieved without means, but they have all forgotten to mention the statements of the National Director of the PJ (Judicial Police), who could not have been clearer when, at the end of October, he said, and I will quote: "We have finally a budget that honors the institution and that goes to meet the future. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It has also ensured that, and I quote again, "in months, the institution may conclude more famously more complex investigations. Do not keep on seeking. ” About two weeks ago, the Director of the National Unit for Combating Corruption (UNCC) of the PJ said: "The PJ has the means it has never had to combat corruption and, therefore, we do not use the speech of the crime scourge to beg for chaos affecting democracy and the rule of law. What we really want is to prevent crime, and that is what we are discussing here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u207	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u208	I congratulate the President, the ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister and the Secretary of State. On this subject, knowing that he will come down later for specialty and that we will not have a discussion here on the specialty, because we are having the first debate on this subject, I will try to talk about what brought us here, which is the law of criminal policy, now for the two years 2023 - 2025. Speaking of this, I begin by saying, first of all, what has already been said by Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz: it cannot but be said that there has been a year of empty prevention and priority research crimes. Good or bad, agree or disagree, the law of criminal policy has to exist in all happinesses. it did not exist in the previous year, we had an empty year here, without the existence of a law of criminal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u209	You've had four!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u210	This cannot fail to be said when we are evaluating the period of subsequent biennial. By the way, Mrs. Minister, if you will allow me, just one detail: how we are evaluating the law, Article 18. it says it comes into force the day after its publication, which is certainly a step, because it runs counter to the Criminal Policy Framework Law, which obliges it to be on 1 September. So let the services in order to correct this, because obviously it cannot be approved here for a matter of form, which is not just.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u211	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u212	Then, with regard to the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party, we have some difficulty in understanding the criticism that is made of the immiscusion of this House and of the executive and legislative regime in general on criminal policy matters. I have a lot of difficulty, because any party that is present here, here or outside, whenever new crime phenomena arise, or in growing, critical numbers, calls for greater police action, calls for priority to be given to combating a particular crime. Therefore, I have some difficulty in understanding how the day-to-day political struggle is always with these demands, and well, and then, a little influenced by the thesis defended by the Public Ministry, here they already find that there is an immiscusion of political power. We do not agree, Mrs Alma Rivera, and therefore we are naturally in favour of a law of criminal policy. But, Madam Minister, on substantive issues, I have two doubts and one proclamation. The first question: the previous criminal policy law referred to victims particularly or especially vulnerable, discriminating them all. It was said "children, young people, pregnant women and elderly, sick people, disabled people and immigrants. “ That is what I was. In the current law, this expression was changed by « particularly vulnerable victims ». It is not wrong, because instead of having the whole catalogue, it concentrates on what is the definition of Article 67. the Code of Criminal Procedure. The problem is that every five times that victims are particularly vulnerable, they put a comma and they add "including immigrants", and we cannot understand the reason why immigrants discriminate against the other victims that are particularly vulnerable. Or, in other words, if they are all put in the same bag, let me say, we understand, is the definition of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u213	If it were enough! Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u214	But building up immigrants and not building up, i.e. not giving political prominence—because it is a political option—, children, young people, pregnant women, elderly people, patients and people with disabilities, is something we cannot understand. in the same way, we could not understand that in the previous law of criminal policy had an article, Article 21. the, which referred to the evaluation of crime associated with corruption. Without prejudice to what Mrs Cláudia Santos said, who is indeed a crime of priority research and prevention, there was an own article, which now does not exist, and we would like to know why. Third note, to conclude, that it is a proclamation, as I said. There is a political option that is taken in this law of criminal policy: to change the catalogue by criminal phenomena, as has existed so far, to have a catalogue by types of crime, i.e. no longer being violent and serious crime and to be the actual crime that is committed. We don't think so. The criminal policy law has been consolidated for eight years with criminal phenomena. I will even quote Mrs Cláudia Santos, who said that these topics « cannot be treated as legal matters». You're absolutely right, and I wrote precisely for that. And that is why we are against changing the catalogue of criminal phenomena to criminal types, because it makes it less intelligible, because it makes it less accessible, more difficult to participate in the political debate and the debate of citizens, but above all because it does not correspond to RASI. Because RASI, its catalogue, is not organized by criminal types, but rather by criminal phenomena, as was the law of criminal policy. So, Madam Minister, to conclude, I want to say that we cannot take a choice in the law of criminal policy, have a different option in the Annual Internal Security Report. This gives the idea that things are done without big connection, and it needs to be connected, especially when we are dealing with serious issues like these. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u215	It's reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u216	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u217	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister: This law has transversal priorities in relation to crime prevention, in relation to rehabilitation and reintegration, it has crimes that are of priority prevention and priority research crimes. And when I read the list, I don't think anyone disputes these crimes from the point of view of their gravity. Crimes against people, murder, crimes against physical integrity, priority research crimes, especially those practiced by organized crime, are all correct. What's the problem? There are no specific priorities. Priorities are choices, and the catalogue seems to be so wide that it covers everything that concerns us, which is different from a policy set out in priorities. I would like to know, here, what is actually a priority, how much more it is from the point of view of the media, where more means will be allocated. Second, a consultation was made to the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Superior Council of the Magistracy, which is a good practice. these consultations were critical, and I will focus in particular on the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, on matters of judicial independence, with doubts regarding the drafting proposed for article 7. the, in which it appears to equate the competence of the president of the county court to the powers of the Attorney-General of the Republic, and a request for greater collaboration between courts and various entities involved in social reintegration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u218	You've got two more hours to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u219	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u220	I conclude very quickly, Madam President. Since we are going to have the debate in the specialty, what I would like to know from the Minister is how you are thinking of accepting these criticisms, in the debate in the specialty, and so you are thinking of welcoming them in the final version of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u221	To close this debate, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u222	Mr President, I would like to say very clearly, on the one hand, that the law of criminal policy does not expire. The PSD, between 2011 and 2015, did not make two laws of criminal policy and however, as the PCP said so, things continued to run exactly because priorities are set.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u223	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u224	I would also like to say to Mr Rui Afonso of the Czech Republic that they always have a chance in their comments. It is that the National Anti-Corruption Mechanism was installed today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u225	Ah! Now? Oh, my God! That's right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u226	Exactly, today the National Anti-Corruption Mechanism was installed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u227	Was it five minutes ago? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u228	The other PSD issues were more in form. With regard to Mr Rui Tavares, and Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to explain that, in substance, on the issue raised by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, certainly by step, what is in the norm reflects exactly what was in the previous law, which, in turn, replicates what is in the organic law of the judicial system, and there is spoken in the Superior Council of the Magistracy. Therefore, it is very clear and, in the specialty, they will naturally have the opportunity to see. With regard to the prevention of recurrence, we will grow technicians, we will create, beyond the platform, to allow this communication—and, normally, I only promise to comply, Mrs. Joana Mortagua —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u230	... we will enforce and increase the number of prevention and reintegration technicians in the area of social reintegration. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the CFP project, from my point of view it violates the Constitution, it is even necessary for criminal policy to be defined in this House. The Government is, in fact, committed to preventing and combating crime. For this purpose, you have worked with results, just watch newspapers and social communication. in this house, I committed myself to creating a National Anti-Corruption Mechanism, it is already created; in this House I committed myself to providing criminal investigation of more means, that is what we have done, the anti-corruption unit of the judicial police today has more than 40% of personnel, of elements affected by the anti-Corruption struggle. The Judiciary Police, only in the last year, had 417 elements in the research part, in relation to scientific experts, we have 90 more people this year who entered the Judicial Police and until 2026 we will receive 1100 new elements. Within the expertise, the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences had a historical reduction of expectations, reduced 90 %; doubled medical personnel; updating the system of profiles of the DNA database (deoxyribonucleic acid) is currently allowing the direct insertion of profiles by the Judicial Police and the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences. You have inserted 21 910 profiles since it exists. Only this year, 3396 profiles were inserted, thus also contributing to criminal investigation. But we will continue this path: the formation of judges, including judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, will be expanded with the new pole of the Judicial Studies Centre in Vila do Conde ; the autonomous regions will still have this year, still this month, the new Judicial Police Laboratory ; the Judicial Police will also be responsible for the national platform aimed at combating the manipulation of sports competitions. We've got a way, we've got a road to walk, I know it, but we're gonna keep going. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u231	We conclude point 2 of our agenda and move on to point 3. Mr André Coelho Lima is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u232	Madam President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u233	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u234	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to tell the President that it does not seem to me that, having the PSD and the other parties present, she asked concrete questions about the legal diploma we are assessing, the Minister said that the PSD talked about formal issues. The issues we have raised, even though they are insistent in the form of a document, are substantive issues. And the substantive questions are not solved like this, a penalty, and then read the paper that comes from home. That's not true, and it's Mr. President that I have to say this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you know, all seats, all Members of Parliament and all Members are free to intervene, question and say what they understand very well, obviously, of the rules of procedure, and the Government has the same right. Therefore, your request to the Bureau is recorded, but, as you can easily understand, it is not the Bureau that has to answer. Having said this, we then move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general joint assessment of the Bill No 75 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to amend the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure and the regime of the executive sections of the system of solidarity and social security and of the Bill No 796 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure greater speed of administrative and fiscal justice by amending several diplomas. To present the bill, you have the floor to Ms. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that we are presenting here today is part of a first package of measures aimed at solving two fundamental problems of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction: that of inadequate decision-making times and that of accumulation of expectations. These two problems have already occurred for many years, but their resolution has been hampered by the trend in the growth of administrative and fiscal litigation — i.e. by the increase in the number of cases entered and, consequently, in the number of pending cases — and by the increasing complexity that special administrative law has acquired in the science of law. For these reasons, and although the efficiency of the Portuguese courts, in their entirety, has improved substantially in recent years, administrative and fiscal jurisdiction has always faced greater difficulties than others. Despite the fact that efforts to improve the efficiency of this jurisdiction have been initiated in recent legislatures, the fact is that the response capacity of these courts still needs to be strengthened. This is therefore one of the main priorities of the Government, included in its Programme : to provide the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction with more and better conditions so that it can prosper in efficiency and quality of decisions. The Ministry of Justice's work programme has five essential objectives, which we undertake to implement throughout the mandate: improvement of judicial management; optimization of performance in higher courts; simplification and procedural agility; digital transformation; strengthening of human resources. The Ministry of Justice has chosen to bring into force a first package, which is part of this diploma and also two other diplomas. A diploma, already approved in the Council of Ministers and published in the Journal of the Republic, which enshrined the administrative and financial autonomy of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals. The other diploma will establish a simplified and experimental process for certain actions worth less than €5,000, which will function as a pilot for some more modern solutions in terms of the agileization of low value processes. The proposed legislative authorization law is now a structural diploma because the measures it implements are essentially focused on the amendment of the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ( ETAF ), which is the basis of the organisation of the functioning of the whole jurisdiction. This proposal introduces specific amendments that directly address the resolution of specific problems that have been properly diagnosed and studied. In fact, what is proposed is designed to solve concrete problems, and it is intended that the results to be achieved may be felt in the short term. The proposal is based on the identification of the problem and the implementation of the measure which resolves it. In fact, it is in the higher courts of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction that the greatest expectations of all Portuguese justice occur, and that is why there are the greatest problems and the greatest lack of solutions. In fact, the courts of 2. the instance — the two existing central administrative courts ( ATT ) — are currently the only courts in Portugal where expectations continue to increase, i.e., more processes than those that end. The reason why this is happening is not negative. The wager made in the previous legislatures in the recovery of expectations in 1. the instance was successful, however, gave rise to a flow of resources to the higher courts. Thus, special attention is needed to the higher courts. First, it is intended to increase the judicial response by reorienting a part of the proceedings centred on the North Central Administrative Court and the South Central Administrative Court for a new Central Administrative Court Centre, based in Castelo Branco. On the other hand, it is proposed to extend specialization on the basis of the subject to 2. the instance, being shown that the specialization increases the efficiency and quality of the decisions made. It is also intended to streamline the appeal system by reducing the number of situations in which decisions of 1 are made. the instance directly to the Supreme Administrative Tribunal ( STA ). The problem of the lack of demarcation judges in actual office in the administrative central courts is also addressed. Moreover, the extension of the term of validity of the competitions for access to the career of a judge in the higher courts is achieved. Already the structure of 1. the instance in the administrative and fiscal courts ( TAF ) does not have any significant changes, but three problems have been identified and, therefore, the competence of the specialized judges is clarified; the change in territorial competence is implemented, in the litigation process presented in tax enforcement due to debts to social security, thus solving a problem of unconstitutionality in the current rule in force; the president of each court of 1 is released. the instance of bureaucratic tasks. The Government now calls on the Assembly of the Republic to authorize it to implement these significant amendments, in a collaborative and mutually constructive manner, to provide the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction with the means to remedy the problems that have prevented it from prospering, such as its design and function. These improvements will make it possible to strengthen the response capacity of these courts by optimising their functioning, in order to resolve in a reasonable time the disputes that are put before them by citizens, companies and public entities. Thus justice will be done faster and better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u237	To submit Bill No. 796 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u238	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 846 days is precisely the time in Portugal for an administrative tribunal of 1. the instance takes a long time to settle a dispute. We continue to be the country of the European Union in which this time is the greatest, which calls into question the confidence of citizens in the judicial system and diminishes the competitiveness of our economy, not to speak in the alternative resolution of the dispute, particularly through arbitral mediation with the State itself. That is why, more than ever, we need to discuss measures to accelerate administrative justice. We recognize that there are some positive measures on the part of the Government, by adopting an incentive scheme for the extinction of the institution, by giving administrative and financial autonomy to the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, but we believe that it can and should go further. That is why Portugal can follow measures such as those already being adopted in Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the Netherlands and which have been successful in reducing litigation or reducing waiting times for the conclusion of the dispute. Therefore, we propose that the sentence be spread more rapidly and efficiently through an incentive mechanism in agreement with the parties regarding the establishment of facts relevant to the decision and simplification of the sentence in cases of manifest simplicity of the case. On the other hand, the NAP also proposes the creation of financial incentives, such as the exemption of costs in cases where the author's claim is fully satisfied within the time of the dispute, and the exemption of part costs in cases where the transaction or satisfaction of the author's claim occurs pending the proceedings. We also propose the reduction of decision time for judicial proceedings by increasing the speed and safety of the process process, by effectively implementing the electronic citation of public entities. It is also intended to avoid unnecessary incidents in the context of certain notifications, for example by proposing that the time limit for the presentation by the winning party of the part-cost note after the transit in court of the sentence should be increased rather than before when the sentence has not passed. These are proposals that we believe enrich not only this debate, but also complement the bill put forward by the government. They do not bring a revolution of the system, but accelerated mechanisms of our administrative courts, so we believe that they should deserve the opportunity to be discussed in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u239	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having completed the period of presentation of legislative initiatives, we are moving to the period of debate. For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u240	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I wanted a year ago on June 8, 2022, to present the PSD Bill No. 53, for the establishment of a new central administrative court in the centre of the country. This new central administrative court is necessary and its establishment is urgent. As is generally known, the situation of paralysis in which the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction constitutes an authentic denial of justice, which affects the rule of law, depriving citizens and companies of the right to obtain a decision within a reasonable time. The stagnation of this jurisdiction is even worse in the courts of appeal, reaching the delay of truly alarming proportions in the North and South ATC, and the abnormality of decisions takes years to be taken. Knowing that the situation is chaotic and unsustainable, the PSD proposed the establishment of an administrative central court with specialized powers, like the administrative and fiscal courts of 1. the instance, in order to optimize the specialization of judges in certain matters, benefiting the quality of decisions and procedural speed, thus aiming at the creation of sub-sections specialized on the subject and even with national competence. We proposed that this new TCA be based in the central area, in the city of Coimbra, and that it have a board of judges themselves, to create through new entries in this jurisdiction. However, in the wake of the country's needs and the realization of the rights of citizens and businesses, the PS spoke against the need for the creation of this new court, with the bill of the downloaded PSD, without a vote, so as not to be completely plummeted. Ironically, or perhaps not, the Government is now coming up with a bill for the Assembly of the Republic to authorize it to amend several legal diplomas and — no doubt! — to establish a new central administrative tribunal. [[PSD applause.]] The same thing that the PSD proposed and that the PS did not accept, only with headquarters in Castelo Branco, preterminating Coimbra, as, moreover, the government has come to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u241	That's the president of the chamber who doesn't make any effort!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u242	The PSD bill will now be voted on in conjunction with the Government's bill and we will see whether the PS respects the opposition and demonstrates the democratic culture of voting in favour. Having said that, and with this request for legislative authorisation, the Government intended to empty the parliamentary debate, withdrawing the legislative process to the Assembly of the Republic. As the PSD has warned, the creation of the new ATT will not, on its own, solve the serious problem of this jurisdiction, even though it is a very important contribution to decongesting the two current central courts. It must be said that the Government did not follow the bill of any study, opinion or position of the entities heard or based on it as appropriate. In view of the proposal for a law, it is noted that the Government has been very short of making the necessary amendments and reforms and that the only major measure is the creation of the new TCA — already proposed by the PSD — and the remaining proposals are measures, especially managers, of the judges presiding over the courts and the adjustment of powers between the Supreme Administrative Court and the central courts, as well as of the competences of some specialised judges and territorial jurisdictions of tax courts. on this path, the bill proposes the restriction of access to the section of the tax dispute of the STA, without the guarantees of defence of taxpayers, as a way of decongesting that court. There's no doubt about it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, which courts without proceedings to settle are decongested courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state in which the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is located is very serious, and the PSD has warned about it. We cannot continue to accept that the processes are painfully dragged into the TAF 15, 20, and even more years, until they have passed judgment. We cannot continue to accept that the proceedings are closed for years pending a pre-trial hearing, for example, where the necessary means of proof will be decided to instruct the process, such as, for example, the medical-legal experts, in cases where the extra-contractual civil responsibility of the State is concerned. When the expertise is done, it has spent so much time that it becomes useless and with severe damage to the injured citizen. We cannot continue to accept that the laziness of these courts contributes to crimes of corruption, because one prefers to risk corrupting any official in order to solve any bureaucracy than to attempt an action against the State, against any department of the State, continuing without solving the problem in good time. And that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it happens. That's what happens! [[PSD applause.]] The courts exist to resolve the disputes of citizens and companies and the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is not fulfilling this primary function, which is exclusive of the sovereignty of the State. Since the Government has been governing Portugal for more than eight years, it would be expected that it had already reformed this jurisdiction and that it would ensure the realization of justice to which it is obliged to resort.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u244	in this framework, the bill we are debating today is manifestly small for what still needs to be done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u245	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposed law that the Government is bringing us to obtain authorization to implement measures that help overcome the problems of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. In fact, the situation of laziness and waiting in these courts is absolutely unbearable and regrettable. In practice, access to administrative and fiscal justice is denied to citizens and businesses, with its implications. I mean, to small businesses, of course, because, when we talk about millions of cases, the State allows the diversion to the private business of arbitration, to its own detriment, often. For this problem of process congestion and the inability to give them progress, several factors compete, but we cannot ignore the starting problem, which is the lack of dozens of judges in the various instances, employees and advisers to support judges in matters of greater complexity, which have increased volume. The material situation of the courts is sometimes shocking, there are no minimum working conditions, decent working conditions for the development of different tasks. Although we welcome the objectives of this bill, taking into account the volume of the problems, the only great measure it presents is the creation of the White Castle court, which is little. Since we are in favour of what is brought by the government today, it is an illusion that the resolution of problems dispenses structural investment and valuation measures. Without judges, without public prosecutors, without officials and without access to law, there is no justice—we have already mentioned it here. Having said that, the amendments proposed in particular to the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Process of the system of solidarity and social security are aimed at optimising the functioning of the administrative and fiscal courts and overcoming some organizational and organizational difficulties. But it must also be said here that the difficulties of recruitment, in particular, are the result of a devaluation which has been made of this jurisdiction by successive governments, and only by investing this policy is indeed possible to circumvent this difficulty of recruitment. With regard to other proposals that are also on the table, there is a revenue that we do not consider appropriate, which is the revenue of financial incentives, which, in practice, correspond to incentives for the loss of justice and not for its realization, above all in many situations in which it has already been realized that those who insist on actions do so because they cannot give up, in fact, even by law cannot give up. Then there are proposed simplifications for agreements on the establishment of facts relevant to the decision — when the parties, it must be said, are not in equal positions, as is the case with the administrative jurisdiction — may indeed result in a bad outcome. We also criticize the presumption that appears in the NAP project of the simplicity of the cases depending on the value of the court height. It is a criterion which, in our view, proves inadequate, especially when the value, in some circumstances, is determined on the basis of inadequate criteria of the relevance of the cause in dispute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u247	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u248	We will therefore follow the Government's proposal, with the notion that it is obviously not enough to overcome the problems that are all on the table. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u249	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A rare consensus goes through these benches and begins precisely with the proposal that Mr. Minister brings here, when he says that 'despite the measures adopted by the legislator in recent years, the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction still faces serious challenges and constraints that often prevent it from resolving within a reasonable time, the disputes that are put before it by citizens, businesses and public authorities'. It has already been said that the average duration of the proceedings concluded in the first instance administrative and tax courts, although it has decreased for a few months, remains unacceptable. Forty-seven months of average duration is unacceptable. Four years of average duration of a trial in an administrative and fiscal court is obviously detrimental to citizens' access to justice, detrimental to our economy, detrimental to our rights. We agree with those who say that it is not enough to change the competences of the courts or reduce the possibility of recourse to higher courts or even bet on specialization if there are no more means. The creation of the new central court, for the central area, is a positive step. It remains to be known when and by what means this court will operate. As far as pending recovery teams are concerned, we still do not know whether there will be a further strengthening of resources. It is also not appropriate, in order to statistically improve access to justice, to create incentives for the withdrawal of actions against the State by taxpayers, as happened with the recent reduction of judicial costs in cases of confession or withdrawal. It should be pointed out that litigation with the State is one thing that no individual citizen or company makes a light of mind — unless it is a large company. in this case, we left the dispute with the state for large companies, which will often even dispute taxes and several contributions that they had to make against the state itself. There can therefore be no suspicion in this regard that citizens' rights of access to justice are not being fully respected for statistical reasons. The Minister has already said that 'walls do not solve processes, people solve processes', but that is precisely one of the problems. People are lacking in justice and this happens because they do not care for their professionals, because careers are not valued, because careers are not structured. We want to know what will be done to strengthen staff figures and value careers. Justice officials are still without statute and without fair payments and therefore it is not worth talking about strengthening access to justice, particularly to administrative and tax courts, until there is an effective strengthening of human resources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u251	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u252	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members : I understand the government's attempt to do something, but it is not enough. That is the great reality. We all know that there is a need for a profound reform in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction in order to fight a very simple thing, which is morassity. Morosity in justice is the great problem that exists right now in Portugal. It is a blocking factor of growth, competitiveness, even progress in the country. No one can say no to that. There is a need for effective strengthening of the judges and officials of the administrative and tax courts in order to recover this delay. And that is what this government has not done. Mr. Minister, the President of the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges points to a set of government and management errors and reveals delays of 15, 20 or more years. I will repeat, Mrs. Minister, that it is for the Portuguese at home to understand well: delays of 15, 20 or more years. This is the state in which they left justice in Portugal. For example, the average duration of the appeal proceedings in the administrative area in 2021 was 191 months and rose to 252 months last year. So what is the government doing? Oh, my God! Nothing. This is the problem. I mean, things keep getting bigger. Moorosity continues to increase without any solution. This delay has tremendous impacts on people's lives. People have bad houses, companies close doors because tax debt proceedings are not moving forward. This is the great problem of justice, and we cannot ignore numbers. As for the accumulation of processes, the State cannot promote the denial of justice, and that is what is unfortunately happening. This proposal, as I said, has good will, identifies the problem, but, Madam Minister, clearly does not solve the problem and we and the Portuguese would need much faster justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u253	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : Today's theme of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is, in fact, of great central importance in the lives of citizens. There was a promising reform in 2002 - 2004, which transformed the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction into a true jurisdiction, operating a truly Copernican revolution, making it clearer how to fight against public entities or in frameworks where there was an administrative legal relationship. However, we need to be very clear about the current situation, and the current situation is quite negative in terms of citizens' access to this jurisdiction. As has been emphasized by all the parties who have used the word so far, the situation corresponds to a prolongation of several years and months of effective denial of justice and, therefore, we must seriously address the problem, because indeed we have a problem with administrative jurisdiction. The summit on the European Union average is not a factor of pride and the difficulties we have to face must be addressed in the future. And it is in this context that we view this debate: not as a set of palliatives, but as a set of rather effective remedies. Obviously it will not be enough and it will not be here that our debate and our discussion will end, but it is fundamental to achieve the main objective, which is that of reducing laziness. This is certainly the brand that most negatively impresses, at a time when we have pending processes in other areas, such as housing, in which, for example, the area of urbanism is in which citizens, perhaps more directly, face the difficulties, with the awkward fabric they have with the Public Administration. Then, when they get to the procedural route, obviously, it doesn't improve. But the measures we have here today — and this is perhaps the point where we are far from the diagnosis of solutions — actually respond to several of the priority features that have been identified for a long time. First, there is a clarification of the role of the Supreme Administrative Court, making it clear that it is indeed the computer of the system, which prevents the possibility of dilatory records extending the processes beyond which it is reasonable. Secondly, there will be the establishment of the third central administrative tribunal. Finally, it is not a matter of measuring and saying 'Ah, we arrived first, we proposed first'. For a long time it has been identified and for a long time all reports have pointed to a problem that directly relates to laxity and that has to do with expectations. Moreover, having broadened the basis and not being extended the intermediate step, of course, that everything ends up in two central administrative courts, where the proceedings are stopped. This element, which may seem a detail, is far from a detail. That is where expectations can be reduced and, for the future, ensure that the flow of access to higher courts does not have two but three ways, which is absolutely fundamental. And this with the additional component of it being decentralised in an area of the national territory where there are no higher courts and where the impact is much more significant than in other points of the territory. It is not a problem of depression, it is a matter of being consistent with what we stand for. We have argued that, in the low-density territories, we should attract public services, and this is a first-line public service. Therefore, it is a choice that we greet and that is positive and most relevant for that reason. I would now leave the question as to whether we have an idea, already at this stage, of what will be the distribution between what is geographically north and south and which will be at the centre. Finally, it is merely a curiosity, but it will surely be matter to be developed in the decree-law that will establish territorial competence. But if the Minister can give some information, she will also be relevant. Then, thirdly, one aspect which is not just one more aspect: specialization at various levels, of course, specialization at the second instance, to ensure that such an effect continues to not occur and to clarify what was not fully clear in the legislation on separation between the competences of social sections and the sections of contracts, which allows once and for all to avoid further litigation, with interpretative doubts as to how to do so. The clarification provided for in Article 44. the -A of the ETAF is, for this reason, especially relevant. Finally, we do not devalue management issues, because management issues, once again, are instrumental and decisive in ensuring that judges can concentrate on what is fundamental, that is to administer justice and not necessarily administer the court, if they allow me to distinguish. If judicial administrators are trained and their path is to take the management tasks of the courts to lighten the duties of the judges, of course, any advance that legislation can make — again we have a good example of this itself — must be welcomed and marked as a step forward. Obviously, it took a long time for the administrative and financial autonomy of the Higher Council; it is even a matter of mimetization of the other Superior Councils and, therefore, it is almost a logical corollary, an aspect that was missing in this area. Therefore, everything we read about the subject, all the diagnoses that have been made point to the need for solutions and they are here. Once again, I say, there is a lot of work, a lot of work to be done, there may be a need for changes in procedural legislation, but, basically, this organizational aspect, this ability to provide more means - because to create a new central administrative court means to convene more means for the system - point to this. We all agree that there are no miracles and that obviously there is no reduction in the flow if there is no investment in infrastructure, if there is no investment in human resources and if there is no investment in human resources, and if there has also been, again, there has been, in addition to legislative changes, investment in means and technological responses, which makes it increasingly easier to do, quickly, what has taken many years. It is indeed a great challenge for which the Socialist Party hopes to be in fact at the same time. Much of the transformational reform of the administrative and fiscal dispute, or at least the administrative dispute — the prosecutor will still need some revisions — was the result of a part-session, a process discussed in the academy and debated for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u255	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u256	I shall conclude, Madam President. We must now take additional steps to continue to take this path, not losing sight that, indeed, citizens feel directly the difficulty and it is to them that we have to give answers, but here is a very substantial set of answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u257	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The latest data compiled by the Council of Europe in the study on the efficiency of judicial systems show us that Portugal, on average, for every 100,000 inhabitants, has more judges, more prosecutors, more judicial officers, many more lawyers and even more courts and more specialized courts. Although we have more resources allocated to the judicial system, an administrative process, at first instance, takes time in our country to be judged, about 847 days, which is more than twice the average of the countries analyzed. And this is in the first instance, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at what is happening in the second instance, the administrative and fiscal procedures are stopped in our courts an average of 877 days, which contrasts dramatically with the 253 days of the other European countries. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a page of the study she reported.]] It's all here, Mrs. Minister. I can bring it in, it will be very useful, and I can also distribute it to the rest of the banks. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, exactly a year ago, this Parliament discussed a PSD proposal for the establishment of an administrative central court in the city of Coimbra. Exactly one year later, the Government also presented its proposal for the establishment of an administrative central court, but this time in the city of Castelo Branco. From an ideological point of view, although nothing goes away from the establishment of a central court in the central region of the country — which is indeed absolutely necessary, given the huge number of expectations that exist and which congested the present Central Administrative Tribunals North and South — we highlight the warnings we left in the debate that we made a year ago and which unfortunately remain today. The creation of courts and sub-sections specialized in central administrative courts will not alone solve the problem of the high litigency in this jurisdiction. As we have seen in this study, Portugal already has a high judicial expertise and that is not why we have been able to deal with the high average times of dispute resolution. The fact is that we continue to lack reliable data and it has also been reported that there are insufficient studies that can confirm the advantage of creating specialized subsections for decongesting and for efficiency and speed in the first instance courts. This is proven and acknowledged by the Government itself, stating that the amendments which it makes today, through this proposal, have only a surgical scope, thus assuming the inability to present measures that are more disruptive, to face the chaos in which our administrative jurisdiction is currently present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than a problem of lack of resources, the country has a problem of resource management under the leadership of the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u259	Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u260	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would begin by pointing out that over the years the situation of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction has become so serious that it will no longer be resolved with the palliative measures contained in this proposed law under discussion. The urgent lack of resources in the administrative and fiscal courts, from insufficient specialized personnel and inadequate funding, leads to significant procedural delays in the resolution of judicial cases, which seriously affect access to justice and legal certainty. Let us remember that in 2022, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court declared that the delay in the courts is unacceptable, with proceedings awaiting trial for 10 or 20 years, and stressed the need to be able to count at least 66 more judges and an indeterminate number of advisers in order to support the judicial magistrates in the most technically demanding matters. With regard to this bill, I would also like to stress that it is necessary to value more the function of the STA by releasing it from proceedings whose value does not justify the intervention of this higher court. Only in this way will it be possible to refocus the activity of the ATS in purely essential functions. As the President of the STA points out, a State must avoid being convicted in a court. In Portugal, neither the State nor the public authorities have any problems in being convicted. In fact, they prefer to be convicted by a court to pay voluntarily. It's a shame. Finally, it should be said that it is essential to change and correct the malfunction of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction through its robustness, its agility and its adequacy to reality. We cannot, in a somewhat reduced way, limit ourselves to these types of proposals of a casuistic, avulsive and merely conjuncural nature. To that end, there should be a real reform of justice, providing the administrative and fiscal courts with more means, judges, magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office and judicial officials. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u261	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : in a legislative authorization such as the one we are discussing here, it will be taken into account, especially if the generality and transversality of the subject matter in question cause it to first be discussed in Parliament, or not. There have already been cases, during this mandate, in which we considered it inappropriate to give legislative authorization to the Government because we believe that this was the appropriate place to legislate. This is not the case I appreciate. We believe that, given its specific technical nature and some measures to set up the house, it makes sense for the Executive to have this authorization and that it can make good use of the 180 days of legislative authorization to move forward. However, what we would like to see, in return, was more transparency in knowledge than the house of justice in Portugal. When we look at the Justice Assessment Panel of the European Union, called Justice Scoreboard, which has a regular annual publication, we continue to see that Portugal, on some essential issues such as administrative courts and civil cases, has no data from 2012 onwards. We know that in 2012 we were the worst-rated country in the European Union, but we don't know now. We can be, perhaps Cyprus is the worst country, because it has surpassed us, but in fact Portugal has no data for 2018, already with the Government of the Socialist Party, and has no data for 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u263	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u264	We have no data for the impact of the pandemic on these factors. I would like to ask you, Minister, how are we going to have this data, when are we going to have it and when is Portugal going to have its full portrait in the European Union's Justice Assessment Panel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u265	At the conclusion of the debate, we shall proceed to the conclusion, having the floor of Ms. Minister for Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: contrary to what happens, for example, in criminal justice, in which it takes an average of seven months for a court in this area to resolve the issues, the area of administrative jurisdiction is far from that reality and needs, in fact, intervention. This is what we are bringing here today and that is what we have done before: to provide the administrative jurisdiction of management and, in addition to management, also resources. How did this happen? It was provided with the administrative management of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals with administrative and financial autonomy, allowing for proper regulation of the jurisdiction and the management of the jurisdiction itself. How did this happen? By providing this jurisdiction, too, with more means. This year, the Government has already been authorized by 135 judges for jurisdictions in general. It is the highest number of authorizations, since these judges are already in their courses. So there is, in fact, also investment in means. How is this done? With the new central administrative court, because that is where the expectations are today. The expectations in the first instance, however, have decreased by 22 %, 6 % since 2015, but where they are now, in fact, more serious is in the second instance. hence the proposal that is brought here by specialization in the second instance, which is basically also a management measure, of the establishment of an administrative central court in Castelo Branco — in Castelo Branco, because it is a territory of low density; in Castelo Branco, because it does not have a second instance, like, for example, a court of the relationship. Therefore, this second instance will make it possible to ease the waiting in the second instance, in the administrative jurisdiction. Mr President, these measures we are bringing forward are one more step. With these measures we will also improve from the point of view of technology, supporting the administrative jurisdiction, particularly with improvements at the level of the secretariats. So we have an open path here so that we can improve and give management tools, we will give resources, including the new central administrative court, to this jurisdiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u267	It accords binding character to the deliberations of CADA issued in response to complaints from individuals, amending Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. To present the IL initiatives, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, we discuss in this Parliament the Public Administration, its model of organization and how it relates to citizens. On several occasions the Liberal Initiative has expressed and defended the need to know, in real time, the dimension and organization of the human resources of the Public Administration, and for this reason we cannot fail to consider the Information System of the State Organization as one of the good ideas that are part of a set of opportunities for the transformation of the Public Administration, possible thanks to the digitization of the State, the economy and society. However, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, even though it is a good idea — or perhaps precisely because it is a good idea — at the service of the polling of politics and parties, unfortunately, you have not yet seen the light of the day. As promised by the Minister of the Presidency, the Information System of the State Organization will come out of the paper and will definitely be implemented in 2024. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have seen with so many other promises not fulfilled, it is important to ensure that this, because of its importance, does not fall into the background, and this Parliament, as the main auditor of government action, has this duty of enhanced guarantee. It is important to say that the Information System of the State Organization is not an idea of the Socialist Party, but the promise of its reformulation and enlargement, made in 2019, was by a government led by António Costa. Mrs. Members in 2024 will spend five years since the reform of a system that in practice never existed; five years to do something as simple as the Public Administration knows who and how many of its workers are. The State that requires single reports to companies is the same as it cannot implement its own single report. It should also be said that the reform of the Information System of the State Organization cannot be hidden behind a alleged shortage of resources for its implementation. The Liberal Initiative does not accept or believe that there are problems of human or material resources to implement this idea, especially when Portugal has at its disposal one of the most well-prepared generations ever and when it is perfectly possible to articulate with the Academy for the implementation of a project of this dimension, a project based on a costly and important principle to liberals, but transversal to all democratic states: transparency. The principle of transparency is closely linked to the right of access to administrative information provided for in Article 268. the Constitution, which assumes the nature of a fundamental right, identical to rights, freedoms and guarantees. The right to access archives, documents and administrative records must be part of the normal scrutiny of civil society, which is essential to the maintenance of the democratic rule of law, and the transparency of the Public Administration should therefore be seen as a priority. And that matters when we intend to bring the citizen closer to government and executive power, increase democratic participation and fight the phenomenon of corruption. For all this, obtaining information or documentation in the possession of an administrative body cannot be a morbid, complicated and bureaucratic process. On the contrary, it should be speedy, accessible and simplified. This is a certainty of the Liberal Initiative and one of the main guidelines for our political action. Mrs. Members, it is necessary to change a paradigm that strengthens the powers of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents (CADA ) and to this end we transcribe to the bill a proposal from the electoral programme that the Liberal Initiative presented to the legislative elections of 2022. We believe that the current law on access to administrative documents is a well-built document that balances the various interests in conflict and alerts the needs of citizens and public administration, but when legislation applies to specific cases, transparency and publicity of information are not always respected by the various bodies of the State. The reality is that citizens are often forced to use the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents. In 2022 1191 cases were initiated with this entity, an increase of 30 % compared to 2021 and an absolute record since its establishment. from these data, we can conclude that citizens resort to the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents because they are not given the procedures for consultation and access to information and documentation, a refusal which this Commission rarely accompanies, repeatedly giving reasons to individuals and companies. We therefore believe that strengthening the powers of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents is necessary, urgently and perfectly proportionate. For a more transparent country, for a more open public administration and for a more informed civil society and with more resources, we leave here our contribution, with the certainty that all parliamentary groups will be sensitive to this matter. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u269	To submit Bill No 801 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : How many of us have in their autarchic party who, being opposed, want to access documents as diverse as contracts or deliberations in a municipality and simply cannot? Or how many non-governmental organizations have already not contacted the parties of Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, because they want to obtain information from public and government entities, and simply not to achieve it, nor even with the approval of CADA? The answer is very easy: none of us can say that it has ever crossed any of these circumstances. Although access to administrative information is a right with constitutional force and to be regulated in law, precisely for 30 years, these cases show that the role of CADA in defending this right is insufficient. It can even be said that, under the legal framework in force, the role of CADA is a mere shadow of what it could be. We cannot accept that citizens, non-governmental organizations and opposition political parties can only access documents of public interest by means of judicial inquiries and after having gone through a bureaucratic process that only gives rise to a non-binding opinion of CADA. It is therefore time to change the model of access to administrative documents in our country, for the sake of transparency and the functioning of organizations. Thirty years after the first law on access to administrative documents and being CADA rooted in the culture of the National Public Administration, it is time to go further, giving deliberative power to CADA in the face of individual complaints. In addition to a corollary of transparency, we are facing a guarantee of efficient resource management, whether such resources from CADA or the administrative courts. That is why we also propose, at the same time, that access to administrative courts, in defence of the right of administration, must first pass through the use of CADA and the issue of opinion by that entity, thus contributing to the decongesting of administrative courts and strengthening of the procedural guarantees of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concerns we have raised here have already been expressed by the PS and the PSD in previous legislations, in some cases even with solutions close to those now proposed, so we see no reason why there is no real legislative change in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u271	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The issue here today is, from our point of view, important and would divide this into two parts. First of all, on the draft resolution presented by the Liberal Initiative concerning the Information System of the State Organization, it is in fact redundant, insofar as they are asking for compliance with what has been legislated. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems relevant to us that we can move forward with this idea of public administration and information systems that allow us, too, to Parliament, as legislators, to have all the information, at all times, quite up-to-date. On the two other draft laws relating to the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, it is also very important to look at transparency and even democracy itself in this matter. We are talking about access to information, access to documentation from state administrative bodies — there may be several different entities, including the local administration, and the number of processes that are put before the Commission gives us the indication of the difficulty in reaching certain documents, not only by individuals, but also by companies, but also by journalism, for example, which always has some difficulty. from our point of view, it is important that CADA has a role in our country, but the truth is, in many of these requests, it should not even be necessary that as many individuals as non-governmental organizations, companies, journalists, etc. They had to call on her. I am glad that CADA exists, because this means that all these entities will be able to have access to this documentation. The problem is not exactly in CADA, because it is even relatively fast to give its opinions; the problem, as mentioned here, and well, is in the whole process after the opinion of CADA, which, as a general rule, is even positive with regard to the complaint—we will call it this way — which has been done. As far as this is concerned, it seems to us that the solution presented in the draft law of the NAP makes sense from our point of view. On the other hand, the draft law submitted by the Liberal Initiative, which goes, more or less, in the same understanding of the NAP project, raises some doubts regarding the drafting that is proposed regarding the sanction and even the legality of the sanctions provided for in the project. However, it seems to us that we can and should have room so that, in particular, we can make this correction. We have already received the information that the bills will be down, without a vote, and it seems to us that it is important for us to be able to correct this part, specifically, because it seems to us that, from a legal point of view, it will not be the most correct formulation. Finally, the opinion of CADA binds the entities and therefore there cannot be a holder of the entities here, because this issue has to be recast. But the idea that the opinion of CADA needs to be binding so that people, institutions, organizations, journalists can have access to documentation is very important. This, in order to put an end to litigation which is absolutely unnecessary, when, in fact, from the very beginning, there has to be a duty of transparency and accountability — which should be the most natural in all public entities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u273	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the subject under discussion, since 2011 the implementation of the Information Service of the State Organization and since 2011 it is incomprehensible—or not, we will already, in some part of the intervention—that the Socialist Party, but also those who have before it, has not been able to resolve a number of situations, particularly with regard to this service and the CADA itself. In January 2018, there came to be a procedure for the competitive launch by the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment, which had already a financial allocation of € 240 000, found at the BASE Portal and had a winner. In other words, the contest was conducted to develop a series of tools for the best information. at the end of these almost eight years of government of the Socialist Party, which included—we cannot forget it and we talk consecutively about it—the six years of management, we fail to realize why, here, they did not want more transparency for the citizen. Why don't we provide the elements? Why don't we allow people to have access to all these processes? We considered it strange and we found it appropriate to investigate a little more. And it is not necessary to go too far, because the news of 28 April 2023 — recent, therefore — could help us reach the thread of the coin : « Medina hides the opinion of the PRR for five months ». The speaker copies the news with the title he quoted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u275	Now, remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u276	However, at a certain point in time, it is said in this report that, even recently, despite the opinion of the Audit and Control Committee, there is even a suspicion of double funding; and even after the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents — the famous CADA, which we are talking about here — suggested the disclosure of the opinion, the Ministry of Finance refused to do so. Then we realize that the Socialist Party — which speaks in 'the word given, the word honest', certain accounts, all very certain and very transparent — may not, perhaps not so much, be so transparent. And we realize that when we talk about transparency in the PS — which are two words that sometimes do not play well — in order to have access to documents, with the Socialist Party, we would have two hypotheses: either this law was approved and we were actually doing the needed reform; or we called the SIS (Information and Security Service) and someone will have to go look for the computer. It is a way we have to solve and have access to documentation. But when we start pulling the thread of the coin we realize that this goes further, that it does not only move with the current leaders of the Socialist Party and with the recent rulers. We understand that the government hides the values of the millionaire pensions paid to politicians: the news is from 5 February 2023. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. Although there has been a request expressed to CADA and CADA that this information should be made public and made available to the media, the Minister and the Government have refused to give the information. A short time ago he spoke in an administrative court in Coimbra, but, as my father would say, it is not necessary to take a course in Coimbra to understand what is at stake here. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.]] The Socialist Party will never approve anything of this, because it knows perfectly how weak it would be to be naked from the moment we had access to what VV. They're trying to hide. Perhaps, Frederico Pinheiro was right: besides the computer, documents are also stored on the phone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u277	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u278	And there are documents that, so often, you try to hide and that you don't want to give in to information agencies so that they make them public. This is called "socialist transparency". [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u279	Mr Pedro Cegonho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Information System of the State Organization is a complex information system that adds the characterization of public entities in the universe of national accounts and the social activity of public employers. Thus, this system integrates all organs of sovereignty, all organs and services of direct, indirect, autonomous and other public entities. DGAEP (Directorate-General of Administration and Public Employment) is the managing entity and holder of this system. Starting with the evolution in Mrs Joana Cordeiro's intervention by using the word "worker" without any kind of ideological complex, it should be recalled that, with the entry into force of Law No 104 / 2019, a set of additional developments has been required in relation to the information of local units and their location, as well as the place of exercise of a worker's duties and the sole social or regulatory balance of the entities. Thus, in order to comply with the requirements of this law, it was necessary to initiate a new set of SIOE developments that would enable the automatic dematerialization and processing of certain processes, as well as the extension and improvement of the conditions for collecting, processing and providing information, in particular in the characterization of entities that integrate or come to integrate the public sector and the identification data and other personal data of workers at the service of public employers or persons in service. He understood that there would be projects to be developed to meet legal requirements and frame these developments in the Public Administration Modernization and Training Support System, SAMA 2020. In addition to technically complex, these developments involve issues related to information security and protection of personal data. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only those who have never done a survey of requirements, who have never done a functional analysis or who have never designed the architecture of an information system are that they may be surprised by the complexity and time of work in this system.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u281	Maybe it's too much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u282	It should be stated that the Government is developing on its own initiative all efforts to ensure that the development goals of the SIOE are achieved, meeting the current requirements that the law and the draft resolutions recommend.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u283	I should!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u284	With these developments, the Government plans to be completed during the year 2023 and made available in 2024 the awarded developments that are under way. The SIOE will thus become a reference in terms of the provision of information for all public entities, ensuring the strengthening of a transparent public administration and the service of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u285	I did not want to interrupt the speaker, but I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create the conditions for all speakers to intervene and be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u286	It's disrespectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u287	He only realized now that he was from the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u288	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Pimentel of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To speak in Public Administration is to speak in a complex reality of more than 5 000 public entities, of 740 000 employees and of many million euros, a reality that covers almost all sectors of our collective life. And speaking in this Public Administration also means talking about a reality which has long been a serious problem in the organization and management of its public services. There are two key areas in which there are problems. One is in the intersection, duplication and overlap of functions between public services; the other has to do with the management—or better, with the lack of it—effective and efficient of its workers. For good planning and rational management of an administrative machine with this dimension it is therefore important to obtain permanent and up-to-date information about its organization and human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u291	It was precisely with this objective that Law No. 57 / 2011 was created and, through it, the Information System of the State Organization, which, however, has not been implemented until today. Generated, but not created, this SIOE legal regime was repealed and replaced by a new, contained in Law No 104 / 2019, which brought some substantive changes. It cannot be understood or accepted that, all this time, nothing has been done in the sense of this implementation, thus persisting the chronic problem of the lack of organization and management of the public thing, evidenced in the degradation of the quality of public services provided to our citizens and in the demobilization of workers in public functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u293	Do you know, perhaps, that the State is responding at this very moment to the question of how many workers are in a position to progress? With the announced acceleration of the progress of workers who have six points from 2024 onwards, can you tell the government how many will benefit from it? Do you know the State in due course to plan its selection and recruitment policies to tell how many workers will retire in the coming years and in which sectors? For this to be possible, all contributions, such as this proposal from the Liberal Initiative for the Implementation of the Information System of the State Organization or others, are welcome, to welcome and will certainly count on the support of the PSD in achieving a better and effective Public Administration for the benefit of the public, but without forgetting the necessary and fundamental component of the motivation of its workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u294	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor. I will appeal again to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create the conditions for speakers to be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u295	Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with the proposals on the table, from amendment to the law establishing access to administrative information. The proposal submitted by the Liberal Initiative includes a set of amendments, since the change in the nature of the CADA deliberations, giving binding force to the deliberations, but also attributing competence for the application of compulsory monetary sanctions. With regard to this proposal, I would like to raise two points. The first, in relation to the change in the sense of giving binding force, which naturally leads to a change in the nature of CADA and, as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities points out, in its opinion, leads to a judicialization of independent administrative entities, on which we have extreme reservations. But there is another issue that this proposal from the Liberal Initiative does not concern itself, and for which the National Data Protection Commission draws attention. For our part, of course, there must be access to administrative documents, but we must bear in mind that there are administrative documents containing personal data and therefore that aspect must be cautious and a concrete intervention. The National Data Protection Commission points out that the open administration, and I quote, « does not apply to its maximum extent whenever the administrative documents contain personal information concerning natural persons». It also calls attention to this proposal to be able to lead to difficulties in reconciling the legal effect of the opinions of CADA with the binding decisions of the National Data Protection Council. This was one of the things we would like to highlight. A second aspect relates to the competences that are intended to be attributed to CADA, in particular financial penalties. The Supreme Council itself draws attention to the fact that this proposal can raise questions of unconstitutionality, saying that only the courts are responsible for ensuring the protection of the rights and legal interests of citizens and that it is the administrative courts which are responsible for strictly imposing the conduct that the law imposes. So, in this respect, we have a number of reservations and we are not going to follow. On the Information System of the State Organization, I wanted to point out that when this law was passed in the Assembly of the Republic, the CFP abstained. And you abstained, why? Because, in identifying the set of elements that should appear in this Information System of the State Organization, there are elements such as issues related to the personal data of workers. The State must, of course, know how many workers have, what their employment bond is, all these aspects, and of course, there should be updated public information on this matter. It does not seem to us that, for this purpose and for this knowledge there must also be information processing, structured and organized, in relation to the personal data of workers—as indeed it is part of the initiative which the Liberal Initiative itself proposes to be implemented. So at the time, we abstained on this matter. There is one question I would like to put, to conclude, Mrs President, which is related to the idea of a valued public administration. We are afraid - in a number of ways - and the information on public employment is important for this - and I repeat that a valued public administration requires workers in an appropriate number for the provision of public services and also requires the valorization of those same workers with regard to their careers, wages, progress, that is, in their working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u296	Mrs. Deputy, I've been waiting for you to finish, but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u297	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. This has not been answered either by the Government or by the parties, particularly the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, but we wanted to signal this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u298	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u299	Madam President, shortly after you finished speaking, Mrs Joana Cordeiro said that she was sure that all the parties were concerned about this issue, and she is quite right. Left or right, progressive or conservative, more or less statisticians, if we do not have at the heart of our concerns the relationship between the state and the citizens, if we do not want to make it less authoritarian, less vertical, if we do not want to make it more flexible, to the concerns of the citizens, is because we are not fulfilling our mission. I confess that I expected more of the first initiative of the Liberal Initiative, on the reformulation of the Information System of the State Organization. This is because the title promises much more and its deliberative points, basically, urge the Government to proceed with this reformulation. It is not to say that the Liberal Initiative has no thought—which, in fact, we disagree to a large extent—on the question of State reformulation, but it was expected that the text of the resolution would play its title well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u300	You don't know what you're saying anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u301	As far as the draft law is concerned, I must say that the title and the text are entirely in agreement with each other and, from our point of view, deserve acceptance. It is important for the Committee on Access to Documents to issue binding partners. To be euphemistic, the low level is highly inadequate, very weak that we have access to state documents in this country, so we think it is an initiative that goes in the right direction and that we will support without any reservations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u302	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I refer to Bill No. 592 / XV / 1. the, the Liberal Initiative, and the Bill No 801 / XV / 1. the NAP, and our first word is to praise both initiatives, because they give signs that they are those who care about the PSD and we agree with. We are talking about signs for a more transparent, open and effective public administration, and the use of CADA wants to ensure exactly that. So we agree with these signs that are given. In addition, the PSD Parliamentary Group is in the process of addressing CADA to force the Government to deliver, for example, the studies it says it has, and that the PSD has already asked for, with regard to the impact on housing, with regard to golden visas. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, the example should come from above, it should come from the Government, in fact, to deliver all the documents to which all, in particular the parliamentary groups, should have access. But by focusing our attention on legislative initiatives, I would like to say that we also stress the importance of Article 42. that of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and access to administrative information, and of course we deny and withdraw any interference from political power in respect of this right. We agree that CADA can be more than just a consultative body. Therefore, it is not a resource that represents a waste in the State and for the State, it must be affected by people, it must be affected by citizens and it must be affected by the transparency of the Public Administration. In all matters relating to the citizen's relationship with the Public Administration and its transparency, the PSD will always be on this side. However, we have some reservations regarding, for example, the legislative initiatives of the Liberal Initiative and the NAP on the application of a compulsory monetary penalty by CADA. We have reservations about this, but, of course, we are available to improve them in particular. We also have reservations about the issue of opinions that may be binding and involving third parties who are not directly involved in the request for an opinion. Therefore, there are also concerns about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u304	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u305	I shall conclude, Madam President. Without prejudice to these concerns, as I said, the PSD generally looks at the initiatives that have been put forward and believes that, in particular, it is possible to improve these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u306	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this issue of access to administrative documents, I would begin by welcoming the two initiatives presented and by saying that I think they do not point to the right problems and that the solutions they present are not necessarily the best for the problem they seem to want to solve. It does not seem to me that the jurisdictionalization of CADA — as it would eventually happen because of compulsory monetary sanctions or even in the case of the NAP project, by the creation of a crime of disobedience to possible non-compliance — is the most appropriate way. It must be borne in mind that there is a function that must continue to be kept in court and that this idea can be counterproductive to become mandatory to pass through CADA, first, before reaching the administrative courts, for an invitation to access to documents. Therefore, we would end up making something more obnoxious that today a citizen can do directly, addressing the courts, in processes that, unlike those of the previous debate, are even reasonably fast in the universe of administrative jurisdiction. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, whose size is 12 members and a framework of officials who do not reach a dozen, would not have the capacity to triage all the process of consultation of documents which were originally beaten in the gap and in which there was no access by the Administration. We even have the willingness to work in the specialty—and therefore we hope that there will be a drop without a vote—to reflect on whether we should not increase the size of CADA and its resources, even considering other aspects, without doubt. It does not seem to us that, as formulated, the solution is necessarily the best solution. Let us also look at the facts: in 87 % of cases where there are complaints and in which CADA issues its opinion that it is given access, which is the result of last year's report, that access is given. Therefore, the work that CADA is carrying out, a pedagogical work and through its opinions, although not binding, produces a very valuable result for citizens, saving them the legal costs that they would eventually have to face if they had to go through the judicial process. Less than 1 % of cases going to CADA result in judicial proceedings. Therefore, among those in which the individual conforms to not having access and those in which access is given after the opinion of CADA, the balance sheet is frankly positive. This idea that it is very difficult to access documents is not translated by the reality that we have on the table. Obviously, there are complex questions, there are resistances from the Public Administration. On the other hand, I note that it is still incomprehensible how the matter of access to the beneficiaries of vital grants is not publicized. There is no argument that the support, the opinion of CADA is very clear and the government should quickly give access to the list of beneficiaries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u308	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u309	...because there is no argument that it is not accessible, and the continued jurisprudence of CADA has been in this sense. It seems to me that the road should eventually go through other tools and also see what the comparative right has offered us. Things like knowing the subjective scope of who should provide this information; if we should only give access to documents, but perhaps, more than documents, also the information that may not yet be translated into documentary support...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u311	I shall conclude, Madam President. All of this are topics that we may possibly discuss in detail. We are available for this debate, but not exactly on these terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u312	To close this debate, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u313	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before making a proper closure, I have to answer to Mr Pedro Cegonho because, in fact, his intervention was a demonstration of how the PS manages the public thing. The State Organization's Information System was announced in 2011, so 12 years passed. This is like TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), which was « cost what it costs » ; SIOE + is « take as long as it takes ». This is what we have! [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if our aim is to have a public administration closer to citizens and if we want a reform of the state — either through a process of decentralization of competence, either through a process of regionalization, either through a reform of the central or local power that accompanies the evolution of society and gives an effective response to the needs of people — we need information, we need support data that brings us more knowledge and helps decision-making. For this, it is essential that the State, i.e. the Public Administration, have a proactive position in providing and disseminating the information it has. We risk even saying that transparency must be at the centre of executive action and should be a rule without any exceptions. A opaque, obscure government that opts for the reservation and the secrecy in its government action is just filling in the fuel tank of left-wing populists and right-wing populists. We must alert ourselves to this danger and ensure that the Public Administration is indeed public, reliable, ready and clear. It is also up to us to ensure that all people, not just this Parliament, have the right to be informed and to obtain from the State all the information they need. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, technological transformation, artificial intelligence or digital transition are useful, but they must be at the service of people. This, not only so that there is a digital transformation, but indeed a real government transformation, in favour of a simpler, less bureaucratic state, more scrutinyable and more transparent. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u314	We therefore conclude this item on our agenda and we shall turn to the last item, which is part of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to act on the quorum verification process. [[Pause.]] All Members and all Members. Members in the Chamber were able to register? [[Pause.]] Then I ask the services to close the quorum verification process. [[Pause.]] We have quorum and we will begin our votes, starting with the Vote Project No. 358 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ), regretting the death of Pedro da Vinha Costa. Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke to read this motion for a weighing vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u315	Madam President, I read: "He died last May 18 at the age of 62, Pedro José da Vinha Rodrigues Costa. Born in Coimbra, on October 15, 1960, and graduated in Law from the Catholic University of Porto, Pedro da Vinha Costa had two children and lived in the city of Matosinhos, being a professional lawyer. Dedicated militant of the Democratic Social Party and Democratic conviction, Pedro da Vinha Costa was elected and served as deputy to the Assembly of the Republic, between 1995 and 2002, having also been, between 2005 and 2007, Chief of Staff of the then President of the Democratic Social Party, Dr. Luís Marques Mendes and, between 2013 and 2017, Vice-President of the Municipal Chamber of Matosinhos, where he was also a member of the Municipal Assembly and President of the Concelia Political Commission of the PSD. A man of character, integrity and deep humanist nature, but also an unformed and combative spirit, Pedro da Vinha Costa highlighted, throughout his political life, a high dedication to the public cause, always guided by a loyalty, weight and sense of responsibility that made him an example for those who had the opportunity and privilege to live with him and work. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 7 June, approves a vote of regret for the death of former Mr. Pedro José da Vinha Rodrigues Costa and presents sympathy to his family, friends and all those who deeply feel his death so early. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u316	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 361 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of João Bonifácio Serra. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u317	Madam President, I read: "Prof. João Bonifácio Serra died on 19 April last. Born in 1949, in Carvalhal Benfeto, in the county of Caldas da Rainha, João Bonifácio Serra graduated in History, at the Faculty of Letters of Lisbon, having started his activity as a teacher at Castelo Branco, in the 70s, later coming to teach in Lisbon, at the Liceu Padre António Vieira. He began his civic and political intervention early during the dictatorship by integrating the CDE ( Democratic Electoral Commission ). Shortly after the April Revolution, he initially enlisted in the Mes ( Socialist Left Movement ), joining the Socialist Party at the election in 1989 by Jorge Sampaio as Secretary-General. After the election of Jorge Sampaio to the Presidency of the Republic, he would be a consultant to his Civil House ( 1996 - 2004 ), and then served as Head of the Civil House, between 2004 and 2006. Subsequently, he was a member of the Board of Directors ( 2009 - 2011 ) and President ( 2011 - 2013 ) of the Fundação Cidade de Guimarães, within the framework of the European Capital of Culture of 2012, leaving his brand and creativity in a process that transforms the city and enhances his cultural life. More recently, he chaired the Strategic Council Network Culture, the entity responsible for the candidature of Leiria the European Capital of Culture in 2027. In the academic field, Bonifácio Serra leaves an important legacy in contemporary Portuguese historiography, with special emphasis on research on the republican movement and the Republic. He was a researcher at the Institute of Social Sciences at the University of Lisbon, he taught at the ISCTE, at the Faculty of Letters of Lisbon and at the University of Lusóphonea, but it would be in his native region that left a more vindicated brand. In 1989, he was one of the founders of the High School of Arts and Design ( ESAD.CR ) of the Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, where he would be a teacher and researcher and where he was decisive in the award in 2018 of the UNESCO Chair (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) in the Management of Arts and Culture, Cities and Creativity, of which he was the head teacher. Member of the Council of National Orders, he was thanked by President Jorge Sampaio with the Great Cross of the Order of Christ and with the Order of Freedom, also being decorated with the medals of honor of the cities of Caldas da Rainha, Guimarães and Leiria. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of João Bonifácio Serra, welcoming his dedication to public cause and culture, and addressing his most sympathetic condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u318	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Being present in the galleries, relatives and friends of João Bonifácio Serra, I wanted to direct them, on behalf of the House, but also in my personal name, feeling condolences. I was a colleague of João Bonifácio Serra at the Faculty of Letters and had the privilege of depriving him of several moments in our lives. So it is with great emotion that I am presiding at this moment and that I am watching this vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask you to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed, voting now on the Draft of Deliberation No 12 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's vote for Deliberation Project No. 14 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Constitutional Review Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 740 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Palermo. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 695 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create a programme for attracting remote workers to low-density territories. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 183 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Payment of 100 % disease allowance for cancer patients and for parents of children with cancer. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira asked for the word on what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u319	Madam President, to announce that we are going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u320	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 26 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the right of follow-up to young people in health care facilities at the time they reach the age of eighteen years, amending Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 794 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Guarantees the payment to 100 % of the disease allowance in situations of cancer and the allowance for assistance to minor children in cancer, amending Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 803 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the payment of the disease allowance for situations of tuberculosis and chronic diseases, including oncological disease, making the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We move forward to the general vote of Bill No. 806 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Increased disease allowance for serious, chronic or oncological patients ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira informed the Bureau that the PSD will deliver a statement of vote on the last three votes. We now vote on Resolution Project No. 13 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen protection measures for children and young people with cancer. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS and PSD.]] The general vote on Bill No. 324 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the subsidisation scheme applicable to maritime cabotage between the islands of the Azores and Madeira and between them and the continent. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against IL, BE, PAN and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 798 / XV / 1. a (CH) — establishes the maritime cabotage subsidy programme between the Azores and Madeira archipelagos and between them and the continent, and establishes conditions for access to it. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PS, IL, BE, PAN and L.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u321	To announce that I will make a statement of vote on the last two votes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u322	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 74 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy for the biennium 2023 - 2025. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the PSD, votes against the CH and the PCP and abstentions against the IL, BE, PAN and L.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We continue with the general vote of Bill No 804 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the conditions under which the Public Prosecutor and the criminal police bodies define and implement the priorities and guidelines corresponding to the objectives of criminal policy ( first amendment to Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May approving the Framework Law on Criminal Policy ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and the PCP and abstentions against BE, PAN and L.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 805 / XV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs measures to strengthen criminal investigation and criminal jurisdiction as priorities of criminal policy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We shall then proceed to the vote, at the same time as in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, of the Proposal for a Law No 75 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to amend the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure and the system of executive sections of the system of solidarity and social security. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the BE and with abstentions of the PS, the CH, the IL, the NAP and the L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 796 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure greater speed of administrative and fiscal justice by amending several diplomas. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PCP were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 636 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reform of the Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE + ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The vote is followed, together, by two requests submitted by IL and the NAP, respectively, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for the 60-day deadline of Bill 592 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reform of the system of access to administrative information by amending Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August approving the system of access to administrative and environmental information and reuse of administrative documents and 801 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Assigns binding character to the deliberations of CADA issued in response to complaints by individuals, amending Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas are down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 773 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the legal framework and adequate funding of the National Action Programme for Combating Desertification, amending the Water Law. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 771 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Provides for the creation of the provider of children and future generations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions against the IL and the CFP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 772 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — envisages changes in the composition and functioning of child and youth protection committees. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 607 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Classification of the Mirandese language as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity that needs the Emergency Rescue of UNESCO. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 582 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government make available to the working group, consisting of Dispatch No 13339 / 2022, the recommendation of the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Care ( NICE) of the United Kingdom, which recommends access to « artificial pancreas » to people living with type 1 diabetes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No 608 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — For the provision of insulin pumps to all persons with type 1 diabetes. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 682 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the hybrid system of continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin in the system of medical devices sharing. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 780 / XV / 1. a (L) — Prevents the criminalization of cyberviolence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 683 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the law of digital services and the promotion of awareness-raising and training actions to combat online hate speech and cyberbullying. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L, votes against IL and abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u323	Madam President, to say that we will present a written declaration of vote on Bill No 780 / XV / 1. a, of the Free, and to the Resolution Project No 683 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u324	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 36 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents the crime of sexual harassment by amending the Criminal Code and the 20th amendment to the Labour Code. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the IL and the PCP, with votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No. 781 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Creates responses of psychological support for victims of harassment and sexual violence in higher education and extends the scope of the codes of good conduct to prevent and combat harassment to all members of the academic community. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 665 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up an animal welfare protocol. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD and PCP.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 670 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government submit and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic the national strategy for erring animals. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We move on to the Resolution Project No. 673 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government condemn the approval of anti-LGBTI + legislation in Uganda, which integrates LGBTI + issues into Portuguese cooperation and creates measures for the reception and integration of LGBTI + Ugandan refugees and other countries of origin in Portugal. Mrs. Members, the PSD requirement, we shall vote on this diploma by points, and we shall begin by voting on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on point 2 of the initiative. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] Finally, we are voting on point 3 of this motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of IL, the CFP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] Mrs. Susana Amador asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u325	Madam President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on the bill we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u326	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Pinto is asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u327	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u328	It is also registered, Mr. We shall proceed to the vote on a PS request for a point-by-point vote of draft resolution No 674 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government that the competent European institutions support the full and effective realization of the potential of the outermost regions - Azores and Madeira. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points of this draft resolution, and we shall begin by voting on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] We therefore vote on point 2 of the same initiative. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 531 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, laying down the duty of the Government to attend each ministerial meeting of the Council of the European Union, before the relevant parliamentary committees. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS, the IL and the CFP.]] This diploma goes down to 4. the Commission. We then generally vote for Bill No. 53 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the Central Administrative Court Centre, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of the Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals, as annexed to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February 2002, to the tenth amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, as approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, and to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 325 / 2003 of 29 December, which defines the seat, organization and jurisdiction of the administrative and fiscal courts, in accordance with their statute. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes in favour of the PSD, the PCP and the BE and abstentions of the CH, IL, the PAN, the L and 5 PS Members (José Carlos Alexandrino, Pedro Coimbra, Raquel Ferreira, Ricardo Lino and Tiago Estêvão Martins).]] Mr. Pedro Coimbra is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u329	Madam President, it is to announce to the House that, on my own behalf and on behalf of Mrs Raquel Ferreira and Mrs Raquel Ferreira. Mr Tiago Martins, José Carlos Alexandrino and Ricardo Lino, I will present in writing a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u330	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u331	Madam President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u332	Mrs. Marta Feared asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u333	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a declaration of vote on the last vote on behalf of the individual.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u334	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 648 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the first research centre in Portugal using alternative models for animals used for scientific purposes(3R) and ensures transparency and dissemination of research information and use of animals in this area. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 675 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government define an action framework for the Arctic. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] We now vote on the request by the Liberal Initiative for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 34. o -A of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XV / 1. a, of the Government. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the request we have just voted on, there is a period of intervention. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor. It has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u335	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a government law, in particular Article 34 thereof. -A, which criminalizes support for organized groups of followers ( GOA ), will contribute to a climate of greater insecurity in sports centers in Portugal. According to the Observatory of Violence associated with Sport, I quote, «the evolution of the legal framework governing the activity of GOAs has had perverse effects, of which the non-constitution as associations under the law, the conflicts with the promoters of sports shows and, above all, the drift to casual style». The Government's legislative proposal has compounded these perverse effects and also failed to comply with the protected constitutional principles. The Government's bill violates the principle of criminality, because it criminalizes conduct through indeterminate concepts. The Government's bill criminalizes conduct that is beneficial for the safety of sports premises, such as the organization of transport by clubs or federations. The Government's bill violates the principles of proportionality and the need for punishment, because, in the view of the PSP ( Public Security Police ), which we have heard in the field of specialty, the penalty for unregistered GOA support is not justified for reasons of danger or concrete damage created by this conduct. Thus the Liberal Initiative is obliged to propose the elimination of this article 34. o -A of the Government's bill. The Liberal Initiative does not embark on collectiveizations of guilt; it does not diabolize groups of citizens to then purge them from their fundamental rights; it does not create forbidden fruits, because the forbidden fruits end up becoming the most coveted fruits; and it does not lay down prison sentences in a light manner, since we gather, hear and consider all the contributions and all the parties involved in this matter. We therefore appeal that this Assembly of the Republic, using its constitutional powers, rejects the criminalization proposed in Article 34. o -A of the Government's bill. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u336	You have the floor to speak to Mr Pedro Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u337	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that the bill does not serve the right of followers. It is not good for security forces and, if it aims to end the violence associated with sport, the truth is that it is clearly going in the opposite direction. As far as the Liberal Initiative is concerned, it is still curious that, during the discussion and the vote on the speciality, practically, they went next to the debate. But, in the best populist style, they now bring this appeal to try to be well seen in the eyes of the followers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Well, the revocation they're proposing is mere irresponsibility. We understand and affirm that the article of the bill is wrong, beheaded, even and, as such, we voted against. But simply dismiss it by not creating solutions or alternatives, it is irresponsible. In fact, just as when they come to propose the end of GOA and a role of changes that simply demonstrate ignorance and even irresponsibility with the culture of the bench. The fact is that it was the Arrival that presented several concrete measures, measures that always focused on the pillar provided for in the Saint-Denis Convention, and for which no one else cared: in hospitality. Many speak in combat and security, but I ask: and measures in the service of the followers? What about the rights and security of the followers? All reprobate. He proposed, for example, a regulation which was not only for safety, but also for service measures. This law should be made for the followers and not against them. I remember that the biggest active agent in a sports event is precisely the adept. As such, it must not only have duties but also rights. to the clubs, to the security forces, here we continue to fight to see their interests safeguarded. to the followers, we can ensure that the arrival will continue to fight for the culture of the bench, but always with a lot of responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u338	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative advocates Article 34. o Law No 44 / XV / 1. the, an initiative that was the target of a wide debate and participation, either by the Government, in the proposal initially presented by Parliament or in the extensive specialized work developed. Therefore, it is assumed as an important tool in the prevention and deterrence of behaviors that do not combine with the socio-educational values associated with the sport phenomenon, which should promote and safeguard. in this context, the present counsel says much more about the many points not avocados than, itself, about the standard now under discussion. The registration of the organised groups of followers designated by GOA and the obligation to carry out a protocol are an essential mechanism for the transparency of the support granted and received. In the field of expertise, in hearing the security forces, in particular the PSP, and considering the Report on Analysis of Violence Associated with Sport, it was clear that GOAs represent two thirds of incidents caused by non-affiliated followers. Unregistered GOAs indicate more than two-thirds of the incidents caused by GOAs; registered GOAs reduce by more than 50 % the number of incidents in this sport period compared to the previous sports season. thus, the criminalization of unregistered GOA support and without protocol is clearly related to the constitutionally planned right to security for sports shows. On the other hand, it carries out a positive discrimination of GOAs, which already register and establish its protocol, procedures which are also simplified with this proposed law, improving the accessibility of that same register. in this context, unlike the proposal with the present appeal, the Socialist Party is against the elimination of article 34. o -A, due to the new law regulating support to groups organized by followers including the criminalization of their non-compliance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u340	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u341	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the advocacy that the Liberal Initiative makes, we must say that, although we are voting on a bill containing amendments that effectively reduce a negative impact of the law in force — for example, with the differentiation between the rules of professional competition and those considered to be high-risk and those of all others — questions that are fundamental to us and in principle, such as the obligation to register the groups organized by followers, remain. The attack on the taps is maintained and not the attack on the problem in a serious and consequent manner, and in this sense we agree with the Liberal Initiative. What has been done is only the criminalization of acts and not an action in the prevention and training of all actors. From that point of view, in the training stages, where part of the problem lies, including in the parents, up to the highest competitive level, taking responsibility for all actors, in this prevention role, which must be the main focus. The Government and the Socialist Party say that it is necessary to prevent and suppress, but in practice they only suppress because prevention leads to the wind.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u343	We reiterate what we have defended, i.e. that the phenomena of violence, racism, xenophobia — take place within the field, in a sporting context, or not — cannot be regarded as an isolated phenomenon and the fight must be taken, above all, from a preventive perspective and from monitoring close to the phenomena. This, without forgetting, of course, something which, unfortunately, has been forgotten: that the lack of response to the structural problems of society is a fuel in itself for those who disseminate and benefit from such antidemocratic ideas and behaviors. Having said that, this is the proposal on the table at the moment, we will follow the elimination proposed by the Liberal Initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u344	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Barroso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of the Bill No 44 / XV / 1. the government, in relation to the fight against racism and violence in sport, was a hard work of a working group that for a few months heard nearly two dozen associations, entities and individuals and also received the contribution of a dozen and half associations so that it could be analyzed accordingly. This working group, and in particular the PSD Parliamentary Group, although it understands the reasons presented here, either by the Liberal Initiative or even by the Arrival, believes that this bill was conceived on the basis of a work carried out also with national agents, entities and associations heard by the Government at that time. Therefore, in accordance with what we are now reporting and also stating is that we are not going to vote in favour of the Liberal Initiative and that we are going to follow up on the analysis of this issue, which is very sensitive. We are also convinced that this legislation, all of it, which has been under review since 2009, has been strengthened with this joint work and will certainly create a better way of having more security in sports settings, to watch competitions and to be able to go to sports shows as a family in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u346	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u347	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We consider, and throughout this debate this is what we consider, that sport should be a safe place for followers, for families, for those who like sport, and not a permanent battlefield, as it has unfortunately become, and not only in Portugal; many countries in Europe who are discussing phenomena of sport violence. It is absolutely undeniable that many of these phenomena are linked to cliques, whether recorded or not. We speak here in GOA, GOA, GOA and people do not realize that we are talking about clashes and that, often, besides being radicalised fans of football, with violent subcultures, these members of clashes are also responsible for the business, so let us say, by a more or less formal economy of weapons, of explosives, of a set of other illicit ones who have come to be identified as common in the subculture of clashes. Therefore, not associating the cliques with the phenomenon of sport violence is at least naivety. To think that the claws do not have to have an absolutely transparent form of existence and, also, of receiving support is to think that there are only nests in the crickets. As we, here, know perfectly well that there are not only angels in the claws, we think very well that, with transparent rules of support for groups organized by followers, when the rules are not complied with, there are penalties to be met. That is what the diploma says and that is why we will not vote in favour of the elimination proposed by the IL. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u348	Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor to speak for one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u349	Madam President, the risk in this debate is to put in the same bag realities that should not be in the same bag because they are different. First, we must respect the cardinal principle of freedom of association, but freedom of association should not serve as a pretext for activities that may be violent, aggressive or, even, contiguous to criminal activities, because, of course, the criminal organization has a completely different legal framework than an association that has the freedom to establish itself. We cannot support this advocacy made by the Liberal Initiative because we believe that some path has been made and has to be done in terms of regulating phenomena of violence in sport, and we have improved. The culture of sports show in Portugal is much better than in other countries of the world and has improved over time. However, one thing we agree with the Liberal Initiative, and therefore we do not vote against it completely. It is that, in the article here, it is proposed to repeal concepts which are indeterminate, of high or considerably high value support, which would deserve better definition and, only for that reason, we do not vote completely against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u350	For one minute, for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u351	Mr President, with regard to this advocacy for the NAP, it is essential that sport, sports culture be healthy, party culture, a culture in which families and any adepts may be present, and not a culture of violence, which has unfortunately marked it, particularly in the area of football. in this appeal there is only one point that indeed seems disproportionate to us, but if we cannot vote in an unbundled way, we will not be able to vote in favour of this proposal of the Liberal Initiative. It seems disproportionate to us that, with regard to the absence of protocols, a criminal regime is being applied. There is, therefore, a point which seems to us to be excessive, but in view of the need for very clear rules regarding registration, operation or illegal support of what may be the activity of the locks, it seems to us that there is also greater justice for a criminal sanctions framework to be applied. However, it seems to us already disproportionate, unique and exclusively in this measure, and that is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal tabled by the IL to delete Article 34. -A of Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July as set out in Article 3. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and BE were rejected, votes against IL and the CFP and abstentions against the NAP and L.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen the mechanisms for combating sport violence. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the BE, votes against the CH, the IL and the PCP and abstentions of the PSD, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u353	Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u354	It is in order to announce that we will make a statement of vote in writing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u355	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Joana Mortagua asks for the same word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u356	It is for the same purpose, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u357	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall then continue and proceed to the vote — which is the last one — of the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u358	Mr President, came to the Bureau, coming from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, an opinion to authorize Mr António Guilherme of Jesus Fathers of Almeida to provide written testimony as a witness in the field of the attached cars: Case 353 / 16.9BEVIS — Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Visa — Organic Unit 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u359	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Having concluded our votes, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor for the usual announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u360	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, draft resolutions Nos 756 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 759 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 760 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission and 761 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission. Bill No.808/XV/1.a ( IL) was also entered into the Bureau, which falls to 6. the Commission, 813 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 814 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 816 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission and 817 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. And that's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-07.u361	It remains to be said that the next plenary meeting will take place on 14 Wednesday for 3 p.m. and on the agenda are political statements at the first point; and, secondly, the appraisal of Parliamentary Investigations Nos 8 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Possible Commission of Inquiry into the Operation of the Security Information Service ( SIS ) and 9 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Possible parliamentary investigation commission for the evaluation of the performance of the Security Information Service ( SIS ) and the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( SIRP ), as well as the political protection of these institutions. I wish everyone a good night, a good holiday and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours.]]
