ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Please open the galleries to the public. We have a quorum, so we are in a position to start our plenary session, which is at one point, followed by votes. In the first point, we have the agenda, requested by the Arrival, on the theme « Combating sexual abuse of minors in Portugal »... [[Pause.]] The Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha did not warn me that she had a file to announce, because she was on the phone, but now she has the word for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u2	My apologies, Madam President. Very late to all, this is a brief announcement to inform the House of the withdrawal of Resolution Projects Nos 527 / XV / 1. a and 528 / XV / 1. a and Law Projects Nos 633 / XV / 1. a, 634 / XV / 1. a, 635 / XV / 1. a, 636 / XV / 1. a, 637 / XV / 1. a, 638 / XV / 1. a and 639 / XV / 1. a, all PSD. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u3	Now, yes, we enter the agenda, requested by the Arrival, on the theme « Fight against sexual abuse of minors in Portugal », with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 150 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Prevents the suspension of the execution of the sentence in case of conviction for crimes of sexual abuse of children or other relatives, 600 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases the protection of victims of sexual abuse of minors, thus amending the Penal Code, 601 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating the penalties applicable to crimes of sexual abuse of children and other related persons, as well as the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 461 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the fight against child sexual abuse and 504 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Conduct a national victim investigation and ensure the establishment of a permanent sex abuse reporting channel, together with, in general, Bills Nos 8 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation, amending the Penal Code, 610 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Increases the limitation period for complaints of child sexual abuse, amending the Penal Code and 611 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Alter the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, extending the prescribed period of crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation being the minor victim. To present the initiatives of the Arrival, Mr André Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u4	André Martins? Oh, my God! That's not me. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your silence so that the speaker can use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u6	Just to clarify, Madam President, my name is André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u7	Sir, I'm sorry... it's not the gentleman you're going to do...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u8	I am, Madam President, only that the President called the pulpit of the Assembly of the Republic Mr André Martins, who I don't know who will be... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u9	Ventura! Mr. André Ventura, I am so sorry! You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we have today comes from the circumstances in which the country lives in the days in which we are. For months and years Portugal lived a way of trying to hide, a way of trying to ignore, a way of trying to look on the side, in the context of sexual abuse of minors. Several scandals and several cases were alerting the national soul to a problem that was of everyone, the protection of our children. Since the famous case of Ballet Rose in the 1960s, passing through the infamous case of Casa Pia de Lisboa, with ramifications in this Parliament, we had, in the Portuguese case, an even greater scandal. A few years later, the Catholic Church would open its own period of self-assessment with a report that would certainly shame everyone, both Catholics and non-Catholics. Our children must be our main object of defense. Our children must be what is most important to protect in a state of democratic law. And my friends, dear colleagues, Parliament has not protected children. by allowing aggressors to continue in freedom, by allowing only a residual number of cases to end up in effective prison, by allowing so many to have suspended sentences, not because of the judges, not because of the judges, but because of our great guilt, in this Parliament, we must assume our own responsibility. And today is the day for us to take on that very responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In December, in this House, the Arrival defended the increase in the prescribed deadlines for this type of crime. The Socialist Party and the extreme left opposed. A large part of the PSD bench was opposed. But after listening to the Independent Commission, several curiously began to appear on national televisions saying that, after all, they agree with the increase in the deadlines for prescription. Several, some on the socialist bench, after an intense debate in which they said they were not justified, which makes no sense, now say that it is something that can be considered. Better late than ever and today is the time to make a big leap forward and to ensure, once and for all, that these victims are effectively protected. Today, no one will have an excuse not to vote. The proposals are here and are very clear. Parliament will debate whether or not we should allow the limitation period to begin only when the victim is 35 years old. Now, there's no giving. It is a political choice, we excuse finding weaker arguments or political arguments. It is time for the decision: we will follow what the report of the Independent Commission said or, again, as we did in the case of Casa Pia de Lisboa, we will shut ourselves down, ignore what is happening and protect pedophilia in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice is clear, too, in this area and in this area. There is no single opinion that we have to severely block the initiatives under discussion here, which means that it is the sole and exclusive responsibility of this Parliament to want to take a decision on the future in this area now. We always have many reasons and many excuses. A few days ago, the country was, and well, shocked, with cases of hundreds of minors raped by clergymen, laymen and others. 20 years ago, we were shocked as politicians, entrepreneurs, doctors abused children, in the case Casa Pia de Lisboa. 70 years ago or 60 years ago, we were shocked at how politicians, bank administrators and others abused children, in the case of Ballet Rose. Systematically and cyclically we are shocked, systematically and cyclically we choose not to do anything. This cannot be the role of Parliament, because its role must be to tell society that we will face this problem, without fear of the politically correct, with laws as we need and that our children need. No more sacred task will we ever have to face, no one will have given us greater honor and dignity than to save our children from the hands of the pedophiles. This is our goal, this is our value, this is our ambition in this debate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When this debate is over, Madam President, we will have, or will not, adopted a legislative package not only following what the Independent Commission has defended but also what the country really wants to see dealt with in this Parliament. We well know that some have rushed to create working groups and move forward with initiatives, just to hide and throw dust, once again, to the eyes of the Portuguese. My friends, the Portuguese don't want any more working groups to hide the problem, the Portuguese don't want any more beautiful words of European law, the Portuguese don't want to talk anymore. The Portuguese want, for once in their lives, this Parliament decides to put those who should never have left. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is what the Portuguese want from this Parliament. Let's stop saying that the judges are the culprits, let's stop saying that the magistrates are the culprits, let's stop saying that the blame is on the police and in the lack of police training. Let us, for once in life, recognize that the problem is here between us, and that it is up to us to solve it, because it was to us that the sovereign people entrusted this enormous mission to defend the children. And if we don't do it today, shame, terrible shame of us who have failed our role. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u11	To submit Bill No. 8 / XV / 1. a,, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not a debate for populism. There is no debate, but this is much less. For the serious debate, the NAP has been, is and will always be available.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u13	Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u14	We know the data that the work of the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse in the Church shows us. They are overwhelming and must be deeply ashamed of us, especially knowing that children or young people who have been and are victims of such abuses only denounce crimes and seek help, at least 20 years after abuse, with all the devastating effect that this has had on the various dimensions of their lives and also with the concealment that has been allowed over the years in our society and, in particular, now in the case of the Church. Even knowing this, we still have a law that strips the victim of the possibility of asking for justice long before it is emotionally prepared, and that therefore clearly benefits those who abuse. The NAP has been struggling for a long time for the extension of the deadlines for the prescription of these crimes and has been repeatedly barring the conservatism of the PS, the PSD and the PCP which, even in the past legislature, have rejected a proposal of the NAP in this same sense. In the face of the nearly 5,000 cases that have now shocked society, it is positive that there will finally be an opening to enable such initiatives and to follow these amendments. It is certainly necessary to promote the effective change of law and that is why the NAP has introduced a new initiative; initially, with a forecast date of up to 45 years, but having regard to the report of the Independent Commission, we have changed our text, precisely so that we will follow the proposed 30 years, considering the social consensus that these same proposals have deserved. Victim compensation mechanisms must also be created. It is not enough to ask for forgiveness, it is not enough to say that the law has to be amended, compensation must also have a compensation mechanism and, therefore, we have entered into an initiative to create these mechanisms. The cases now revealed are only the tip of the iceberg. There is a need for deep analysis, an extended debate on civil society, and that is why the NAP also integrates the joint initiative with the other political forces in order to create a working group and, in a serious and sensible manner, measures to prevent and combat sexual crimes, in particular minors, can be implemented. The violation of the rights of children and young people cannot be answered with subservience, inertia and cover-ups. These situations call for urgent intervention, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ask for a review of links, ask for repair and prevention, do not ask for populism. [[L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u15	Populism is what you just did!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u16	To submit Bill No. 610 / XV / 1. the, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The final report of the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Portuguese Catholic Church contains absolutely terrifying conclusions that reject us all. This Commission has done an independent, speedy and comprehensive work that we do not deserve any repairs. The nature of the reports, the detail and objectivity of the analysis, as well as the characterization of this phenomenon, are a punch in the stomach for anyone who reads it carefully. It is revolting that these events happen within an institution seen by its believers as guiding their spirituality and as protector of the weakest. And even more revolting is the inertia of his action. It is read in the report that some abusers, to justify abuse, resorted to verbal invocation of what arose as a divine design and the consequent need for it to be fulfilled. This reality is particularly disturbing by the innocence of defenseless children who would not know how to defend themselves from these abuses. The abuse of power and domain on a child whitened by the forgiveness of confession is a tremendous humiliation and cowardice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u19	Crimes whitened for years and years, crimes impunity for years and years, especially because the concrete circumstances of this reality end up benefiting abusers. One of these circumstances is the fact that the victims only report these crimes long ago in their adult life, maintaining silence for too long. [[Congrats from Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] We can read in the report: "Usually, the victims begin silence, for feelings of fear, shame and guilt. Those who reveal the situation are a significant minority. When they do so, there are no typical previous tables, and they make it happen with close people". We cannot ignore that, in many cases, the first time the victims spoke about what happened was in these interviews conducted within the Commission. Unfortunately, in these cases, the silence of the innocent is a reality, a reality that perpetuates these abuses. So I leave a word of courage for all those who have freed themselves and spoken. For them, for whom it has already been abused and for this phenomenon to cease to be a reality, today, the Liberal Initiative presents a bill that, in particular, increases the deadline for victims to be able to report these crimes, allowing the criminal proceedings not to be extinguished before the victims complete 40 years. « And why? », ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We know that the average age of those who have witnessed abuse is 52 years. We know that 77% of the victims never complained to the people or structures of the Church itself and that only 4% formalized the complaint in court. Knowing that these crimes occur mostly within family or personal backgrounds and knowing that, nowadays, young people are increasingly leaving their parents' homes, extending situations of emotional and financial dependence, we propose this amendment to the special limitation period for these crimes. I cannot fail to mention that the reaction of the Portuguese Episcopal Conference last Friday fell far short of the recommendations of the Independent Commission and completely sidetracked from the answer that must be given. He did not focus on prevention and did not focus on the victims. The absolute priority of the Church should be to answer them, compensate them, fix them, and that should be the main and unequivocal message, but that is not what they did. [[Applause from IL and L.]] We could imagine it, but the report realises that "the statements testify to the emotional climate of terror, a true attitude of "the futility of evil". It is with this that the Church can no longer compact and it is her responsibility to correct it for the future, since no one can erase the past. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is not understood why the Church was not clear nor removed the appointed priests, but we cannot fail to welcome that some dioceses have done so, such as those of Angra do Heroism and Évora. As this crime of evident continuity, prevention measures are justified and must be implemented. The priority, in these cases, should be clearly the protection of victims and potential victims. The possibility of inertia abuse and delay in the removal of abusers cannot be tolerated. Preventive measures aim precisely to prevent certain dangers from occurring and, in this case, taking into account their continuity in time and their degree of cover, we must go further. We note in some of the recommendations of the Independent Commission: control of the criminal background of members of the Church who act with children; ensure the physical separation between the priest and the child, especially during confession; training on the subject of sexuality, in general, and its founding aspects in childhood and adolescence; a healthy approach to these topics with children and adolescents, in the appropriate context and forms, in wide articulation and with full knowledge of families; information on the various forms that constitute sexual abuse of children; standard attitudes of abusers; empowerment of the child as an active agent in their own defense; and so many others. All this comes in line with what the Liberal Initiative has always defended: sexual education in schools is fundamental and its strengthening in these matters is necessary. But also the judicial mechanisms that allow the protection of minors from aggressors should be speedy in the application of contact protection and psychological monitoring measures. We must not fail to point out that another of the recommendations of the independent committee is the increase in the age of the offender, before which the criminal procedure is extinguished by prescription effects, which we accept with the proposal that we present. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the revelation of the harsh reality of sexual abuse of minors calls us to the need for greater action. Action in relation to past victims and future victims; action in the prevention and consecration of legislative amendments that enable victims to exercise their rights from the front; action in reparation, because these abuses create marks that will never be erased again and therefore any reparation will always be much less than the damage suffered. We have to do justice for these victims. There must be a repair, which cannot only be moral, spiritual or symbolic. Compensation is not an offense. The Church's position on this matter cannot be indifferent and distant. If the reported abuses occurred within this institution and if there was cover, the Church should participate in the compensation of the victims, which is the only reasonable and possible way to seek some repair of what they suffered. [[L.]] Finally, on behalf of the victims, there is a very clear message: people have to be held accountable for their actions and, for that, it is not enough to have faith, there must be consequences. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u20	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and to make it available has the floor of Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u21	Madam President, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, in the discussion we had here in December, the honourable Member said, and I quote: "The delay and suspension of the limitation periods cannot be seen as a line of action and as the first resort to criminal policy of a slow judicial system, under the penalty of such slowness, is further dragged, with the extension of the maximum limitation periods. Do not keep on seeking. ” I am satisfied that you have rethinked this perspective regarding crimes as serious as those we have here and that today there is a consensus in this House. Well, let us see if the PS has returned to this consensus, after saying in December that it did not have it — and the PSD itself too — but we are happy that the Liberal Initiative recognises this consensus and that importance after the report of the Independent Commission. Mrs Deputy, almost half of the cases of sexual abuse of minors are filed. We're not even in conviction yet, we're in file. Almost half are archived. Almost half of the convicted, or rather, more than half of the convicted, have a suspended sentence. Now, do the accounts to these two realities, in which half of the cases are filed and nearly half of the convicted are sentenced to suspended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u22	And who enforces the law?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u23	Mrs. Monica Quintela, I know you like to criticize the judges. He will be willing to do so, but we believe that politicians have responsibility here. The honourable Member thinks they are the judges, we think they are the politicians, who have not done their job. But we will have the opportunity to debate in due course. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] Mr Pedro Delgado Alves will also have time to speak at your own time. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, since you have reviewed this consensus, I ask you if you also agree with the Arrival, in the project you present, to prevent for a large part of these crimes the suspended penalties and the suspension of their execution. In other words, I wonder whether the Liberal Initiative agrees that at the moment there is a real problem with the penalties suspended in this area of crimes, which does not help prevention, resocialization or social awareness that this is a serious crime and which must be effectively combated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u24	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u25	So the question that I ask you is this: what will be the position of the Liberal Initiative in the proposal of the Arrival, which aims to prevent suspension or suspended penalties in a series of crimes like this? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u26	In reply, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed revised our position after the specific information and data that came into the report and, therefore, we have made a bill that revises precisely the limitation period for these crimes. With regard to the draft law on which you are asking, we do not completely revert to what you say. We do not agree with the suspension of the execution of the sentence because for this we would have to review the total harmony of criminal law, and that is what the party of the honourable Member did not do. The faculty is in court and therefore we will not be able to follow it, but of course we will follow the increase in the limitation period.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u28	To submit Bill No. 611 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Portuguese Catholic Church has exposed a heinous reality, a set of crimes that have left us all angry and that should deserve the civic oversampling of this Assembly of the Republic and the Country. Firstly, I should like to say that we have every respect for the work they have done, for the seriousness of dealing with the victims and the crimes they have committed and for the sensitivity they have had in dealing with a subject so difficult and so complicated, but also for the courage they have had to take forward their mandate. That respect is also a gratitude, therefore, which I believe should be recognised in the democratic space. from this Commission came up a set of indications, first of all to the Catholic Church itself. If the country was shocked by what happened within the Catholic Church, and which was exposed, by all the crimes and abuses that were reported, I believe that it was also shocked by the Catholic Church's reaction to all the declarations and complaints in the report of the Independent Commission. There are three proposals from the Commission Independent of the Church that I wanted to highlight. The first is a new committee, to give continuity to this process, to this work. And this was, curiously, the only one of the recommendations that, apparently—because we have not yet seen any step in this direction—will have been accepted for the time being. The second recommendation is the recognition by the Church of the existence and extent of the problem and the commitment to its appropriate future prevention. And I believe that shame is what the Church has responded to this recommendation. When we talk about the recognition of the existence and extent of the problem, what we had on the part of the Catholic Church was, first, an attempt to deny the extension of the problem and an attempt to deny the existence of the people who created the problem, who are these child abusers. Cardinal-Patriarch of Lisbon, D. Manuel Clemente, referred to the set of abusers who were indicated to the Catholic Church as a list of names without any kind of accusation and to which they would not succeed. Therefore, the recommendation of recognition of the existence and extent of the problem begins with the misunderstanding of the recommendation, as soon as in the most obvious and purest of its senses: suspending all priests who are under suspicion of having committed some abuse on children. It is not to eliminate the principle of presumption of innocence, it is to protect the greatest good on the table, which is the intransigent defense of the rights of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u30	We totally agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u31	And the suspension, curiously, was such a list of names that Cardinal-Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr. Manuel Clemente, used to do absolutely nothing. So, Mr. André Ventura, when he says that the culprits are all of us, there are a lot more guilty than others. It is curious how in your statement you did not have a single word about the suspension of priests—one single! — those who have abused children, who are suspected of this reality, and who should deserve the first and most demanding voice to say « if they stop their work, ensure the protection of children, investigate themselves and withdraw themselves from this conclusion».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u33	Shame, honourable Member, is to come here to the rostrum and have no courage to say the most obvious, that the Catholic Church has failed in the past and is failing in the present. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u34	It's been said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u35	Another recommendation—and this even within the canons of the Church—is the fulfilment of the concept of « zero tolerance», proposed by Pope Francis. Question: where is such zero tolerance, when you doubt the list of names, when the suspension of priests is not taken forward and when you try to question the work of the Independent Commission? This is to deny the recommendations of the committee itself, but this is what the Catholic Church is currently doing. It has already been said that they will not all be the same. The dioceses are different, there will be different cases and there are different reactions within the Church, but the Church is one, is unique and, as a governing body, is failing, because it is not taking on its only responsibilities in the defense of children. On a subject so simple and so direct, to know whether the Church is available to pay compensation to these victims, Mr. José Ornelas had a tear that is regrettable. He said: “I will not put a price on suffering. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Clemente said compensation would be insulting to the victims. But then, and the Catholic Church in Ireland, France, the United States, Germany, Chile, Australia, which compensated the victims of sexual abuse? Is the Portuguese Catholic Church different? Does he live on the edge of that obligation? Don't you have that moral conscience? We understand: the moral reference at least seems to have dropped, and that is unequivocal. That is why it is not by chance that the Left Block brings to this debate the proposal of the Independent Commission for the review of the deadlines for prescription. We do so not running behind any populist impulse, but having previously recognized that it was necessary to review the deadlines for prescription and to wait for the Commission's work to ensure that it was sensible, that it was fair, that it was not a race to see who else presented, but that it had a guarantee of suitability, and that is why we brought to this debate exactly the same proposal as the Independent Commission has proposed. But we are also aware that the State must also protect children from the information it gives them, from the sexual education that, appropriate to their age, takes place in schools. And it is curious as we have seen in the Catholic Church, but also broken here in the Assembly of the Republic, to call sexual education in schools « gender ideology».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u36	That's what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u37	As much as they are! As much as they are! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The same priests who don't want to defend the children and the same ones who here falsely say they defend them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u38	What a shame what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u39	Who in schools gives education for citizenship, who in schools...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u40	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u41	Shame on you, Mr. Deputy! Shame on you, Mr. Deputy! Learn, learn: who in schools gives education for citizenship... [[CH protests.]] Madam President, if you would like to suspend work for the sake of arriving, you are at ease for me. [[Calm down?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u42	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u43	Who in schools has contact with children is required a criminal record that attests to their ability to work with minors. Is that so in the Church? It's not. Who in schools informs children of their rights about themselves, about their bodies, about what they cannot do to them is who defends them, not who attacks them. And the one who denies such protection is who, in fact, is next to the abusers. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, and L.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u44	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u45	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u46	Madam President, I apologize to you and also to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, because I did not register in time, I would like to know if I can make a request for clarification. I was not in time and, if not possible, there will be no problem, but I am leaving Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u47	Registrations for requests for clarification shall be made during the intervention of the speaker. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u48	Madam President, on our part, it is all right and I would even accept the time that I am given for the answer, since it has an immense amount of time. So I could arrange the answer with depth, which, I believe, Mr Ventura will want. So if you give me two minutes for that answer, I'll accept it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u49	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to follow the Rules of Procedure, so there are no requests for clarification. Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The set of legislative initiatives put in place today and now in plenary discussion have as a common and exclusive point the security perspective regarding sexual abuse against minors, based on the valuable work carried out by the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse against Children in the Catholic Church. They are all enforceable and without greater difficulty if they can increase the penalties, change the age of the victims for prescription purposes, promote investigations, create means of complaint or prevent the suspension of the execution of a penalty. However, it is important to take into account that the Penal Code constitutes a unit, in the sense that it is built to respond, at a certain historical time, to the aspirations of the populations, to the concrete problems of life in all its breadth, to give it the possibility of enduring in time and thus avoiding destabilization, imbalance and absence of legal certainty. The citizen must have a relationship with his criminal laws so as not to be surprised, i.e. so that he has an idea of what can happen to him if he performs certain conduct that he knows he can constitute a crime and avoid being punished with an unexpected or disproportionate penalty. It doesn't result from what I just said that the Penal Code has been approved, the Criminal Code forever. We well know of many criminal changes produced by initiatives of various origins, through the body itself, which is this House, and above all made after deep reflection on the reasons for the proposed amendments, their real need, the most appropriate legislative technique and the most truthful moment for their entry into force. [[PSD applause.]] All this transformation should always be accompanied by the citizen, so that he internalizes the amendments, the reasons for them and, if he wishes, make his contribution to it. Like the ever unstable balance between freedom and security, the amendment of the main codes must be able to wait for the most appropriate time for its amendment, which is the one that corresponds to the acceptance of the recipients, which we are all. In other words, it is necessary to balance the duration of what is to be changed and the time for the amendments to be introduced to take effect. These are the rules of the criminal system in the democratic world. I quote Dr. Laborinho Lucio, a greater figure of justice: «The rule of law is a state with broad hands, which lets run through the fingers several situations that we would like to see punished, but which we cannot. Because there are rules and the alternative to this is much worse: it is to make a system of self-cratic, totalitarian systems, in which in the name of any idea of public morality we dare to punish everyone without any guarantees". [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Catholic Church, despite several media reports, sometimes chaotic and contradictory statements by some bishops and the papal appeal for zero tolerance regarding sexual abuse against minors, has only recently decided to constitute the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse against Children in the Catholic Church. More valuable late than ever, it was the same formally constituted, integrating figures from our society, representing the best we have in knowing, seriousness and credibility. Despite this, comments have continued to be heard about the old reputation of the committees, namely that late or never finish their work and, if they end, no one will remember the reasons that led to their late outcome. With this Commission, set up at the initiative of the Church, I repeat, the exact opposite happened, i.e. the proposed period of one year, was in fact one year the efforts carried out were of enormous depth and the results obtained are based on the greatest care. His work was applauded by all sectors of the country, including the Church itself. The expectation of what to do with these results was and is great. This is an opportunity that everyone, especially the hierarchy of the Church, will have the obligation to grasp vehemently, taking clear and strong measures in order to be perceived the existence of real will to support the victims, to start removing the aggressors and, thus, to change the image of the Church in order to regain confidence, prestige and respect for the Church and its members. The Commission has informed the Public Prosecutor's Office of the situations in which it has detected consistent evidence of a criminal nature, met with the members of the competent government on the subject and delivered and talked to the Church, taking into account the contents of the Commission's final report. The Church, unfortunately, remained silent, transmitting the idea that probably nothing would do. We know that neither she nor the Commission are courts, but we all know that there are behaviours that must be the subject of preventive measures by the institutions where they happened. The facts in question — sexual crimes against minors — are serious enough to require an assertive, determined and effective response. That didn't happen, or it hasn't happened yet. This is the moment of the Catholic Church, the moment when your hierarchy should have the advice of its best, the moment when it must take measures as signs that the behaviors of child abuse should, as Pope Francis says, be the subject of great transparency in its surveillance and zero tolerance in its reparation and punishment. We believe that's how it happens. If this is not so, it is because the Catholic Church has not yet realized the risk of not adapting to new times, in which, in this way, it will not be able to repeat what good it has given to Western culture, in particular in terms of identity and values, because it has not wanted to rethink the behavioral distortion caused by motu itself to these values. That is why action is urgent. And the action goes through the example and this because of the need to start punishing the aggressors, first by moving them away, through precautionary administrative measures, then, and with speed, to initiate their process with the obvious exercise of the contradiction. The hierarchy of the Catholic Church cannot be paralyzed by internal divisions, making its people watch contradictory and divergent statements of its bishops and thus contributing itself to the devaluation of the work done competently by the Commission itself. [[PSD applause.]] Only by acting urgently will the Catholic Church become an example again. And also example for social institutions, associations linked to support for children and young people, closed spaces such as homes, psychiatric hospitals or prison establishments. He cannot stop speaking in the family, since it is in his heart that most sexual abuse occurs and that society has always silent in the name of incomprehensible reasons and with harmful and often irreversible consequences. By not acting, do not judge the Church that it is also by happening elsewhere, and there are many, that its responsibility will dissipate. Its long existence, its influence in the world on spiritual, religious, moral, political and sociocultural aspects gives strength and long-life hope, but at the same time it has been given increasingly responsibility and sense of urgency in a new world that moves the difficult speed to follow. Finally, between yesterday and today there have been some positive but still notoriously insufficient advances. Therefore, the hierarchy of the Church must, by all that is said, assume its responsibilities, with balance and urgency, under the penalty of not doing so, disillusioning its believers and removing those in it from the most difficult moments of their lives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u51	Mr Ventura, to whom I give the floor, wrote to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u52	Madam President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I welcome your statement. But the honourable Member will understand that, after a long intervention on the role of the Catholic Church in Western Christianity and its importance in the construction of the European institutions and current public morality, the Portuguese have to ask: "What about now? Do not keep on seeking. ” In essence, what Mr said was: "It was important for the Church to do her work, it was important that the report of the Church should go further. » All right! What about us, Mr. Deputies? What about us? Yesterday, I heard the PSD leader say that he now agrees with the increase in the limitation period for these types of crimes. That I know, there are no two PSDs, there is one. That is what your leader says, and I think this Parliament will follow. [[PSD Member Protest Fernando Negrão.]] It is therefore legitimate to ask you whether or not the PSD goes — as Luís Montenegro said yesterday — to follow the increase in the limitation period for these crimes. Mr President, it is not enough to say that the Church should do this and that — all right, we all agree. In fact, it was the first to call the dome of the Church to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u53	Exactly, very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u54	It wasn't any other party, it was enough. The first party to call the summit of the Church to Parliament was the Arrival!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u56	But do you think that's what the Portuguese are waiting for us to do, that is to call bishops and cardinals here in Parliament? We have to go a lot further. Question : whether or not the PSD agrees, as Luís Montenegro said yesterday, that it is time to change the law on the prescription of these crimes? Will the PSD change the position it had in December to guard what I even heard yesterday from the President of the PSD, Luís Montenegro? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u57	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, you very much like to call on the Portuguese people, as you seem until you represent them. But what I think of your questions is that you represent only those who are militants of your party. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] This is the custom, Madam President... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u59	It's the same militancy model!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u60	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am tired of saying that the distances are regiment, but the noise is not apart. Therefore, I am grateful that they create conditions for all speakers to be able to express themselves. You have the floor, Mr Fernando Negro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. So, Mr Ventura, I would like to say that I do not take your question as a question asked as a reflection of what the Portuguese population feels, of course not. I also want to tell you that with regard to the statements made by the PSD leader, Dr. Luís Montenegro, what he said was that we needed to reflect on the measures in question. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Don't do those gestures that hurt him. It is neither screaming nor doing these gestures that you get the thousands of militants you want. So it doesn't get there. You need to be more calm, Mr. André Ventura. You need to calm down. [[CH protests and PSD counter-protests.]] I would also like to say to you, Mr Ventura, that you should not answer your question. You know why? You are always criticizing Members, in fact, each Member who makes an intervention decides to ask you a question, always the same. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] It's always the same question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u62	Just give us a working group!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u63	You don't know what you've done. The honourable Member, today, has made a request to the Commission — which has already been distributed to all, that is why I know — in which he calls for the setting up of a working group. So what's it like? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] So why is it that you criticize the other parties for having done this when you have come to do the same rigorously? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u64	It is incomprehensible, Mr André Ventura. It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u65	It's incomprehensible, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u66	And he's agreeing with me. You see how you're agreeing with me? [[PSD Members' laughs.]] So I wanted to tell you that. You're agreeing with me, I'm off for that. And I tell you, Mr Ventura, that your request, like the previous request, will be discussed at the next meeting of the Commission. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u67	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's talk about victims of sexual crimes against children and the subject requires all respect and restraint. Children who are victims of sexual crimes are instrumentalized by adults who take advantage of their vulnerability. What we have today to avoid is that they are again instrumental in obtaining political gains. [[P.S., L. and BE Members' Applause.]] We have a duty to contribute to a debate focused on the recognition of these victims, the horror they have experienced and the courage they have survived. We are therefore called for a clear debate and, above all, a debate that is not in vain. This is an agenda of the Arrival, and the matter is certainly very relevant, but what comes to mind is that the proposals brought by the Arrival were not truly inspired by the report of the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Catholic Church. We are proposing, above all, amendments to criminal laws under the rule of punitive hardening: more imprisonment. However, none of these amendments would have consequences for the aggressors of the victims who have now broken the silence, because the amendments to the criminal law only apply to the future. For the victims of these crimes, who have now witnessed zero answers. [[CH protests.]] He came to pick up some of those who were already his ideas and presented them again: longer prison sentences, longer prescription deadlines, prohibition of replacement penalties. By this way, he does not want to comply with the Commission's recommendations. He is, yes, pushing for his own political-criminal programme. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] If we really want to take into account the report from the Independent Commission, we must first read the flag on its nearly 500 pages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u69	But that's a lot of work! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u70	If we do so, we will find the following conclusion, which I will mention, underlining the very big line: « From this study, however, it is not clear that there is a need to propose any change to the level of penalties envisaged between us for sexual crimes, as well as to the time limits for the prescription of their criminal procedure». What is recommended is only — and I quote again — an amendment to Article 118. the, paragraph 5 of the Penal Code, increasing the age of the offender before which the criminal proceedings are not extinguished by the purposes of the prescription ». Contrary to what is recommended to us, the Commission proposes an increase in prison sentences in one of its projects. In the other project, it intends to extend the limitation periods provided for in Article 118 ( 1 ). the and, although they wanted to pass the contrary idea, there is no similarity between the Bill No. 360 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), the bill they present today and the recommendation of the Independent Commission. Finally, he wants to prevent the application of replacement penalties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u71	Suspended!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u72	This is the only project of the Arrival for which the higher councils have already spoken. On the other projects, which came in a few days ago, there was no time for the proclamation of either the Superior Council of the Magistrature or the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. The opinions we received couldn't be more overwhelming. I do not remember the most overwhelming opinions of the Councils with a legislative initiative. I shall quote what the opinions of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry and the Higher Council of the Magistracy said: 'inadequate' proposal, 'irrationable', unconstitutional because of violations of various principles. For us, on the contrary, it is very clear that victims have the right to criminal justice. Being involved in such serious crimes, the victims have the right to have all the State's punitive apparatus run with the aim of discovering the truth and condemning the agents of these crimes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But our ambition cannot only be that our children, decades after they have been abused for weeks, months or years, are entitled to an improbable outcome criminal trial.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u73	Let them go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u74	What we ambition is much more: that our children are not victims of crimes or that, being victims, there is immediate denunciation of the aggressors and protection of the victims. And whoever has read the wire report will conclude that this is also what is there. I will quote: "The justice requires rapid investigation and prompt decision, given the suffering of the victims and the possibility of the aggressor repeating his crime. Do not keep on seeking. ” And these are the answers that all of us, Members of this 15th Parliament, have a duty to seek. Having empathy for those who suffer is fundamental, but it is not enough. We have to do more. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group began this reflection and identified some directions for change. First, we must invest in the prevention of sexual crimes against children, and this must pass through the mandatory creation of compliance programmes in child-friendly organisations. These programmes assume that each organisation is characterized from the point of view of risk assessment and that measures aimed at mitigating it are adopted. There must be people outside the organization with supervisory powers and there must be internal channels of complaint, as well as codes of ethics, good practice guides, recruitment control. Secondly, the amendment of the mandatory complaint procedure provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure should be considered. Today, complaints are defined according to the characteristics of complainants — employees, for example — but we admit that anyone who has contact with children within the host organisations has the duty to report them. This should apply not only to child victims but also to victims who are particularly vulnerable adults. Thirdly, we agree to revisit the regime for the prescription of sexual crimes against children, taking into account the Commission's recommendations and the international commitments to which we are bound. Finally, the political instrumentation of victims has been studied for a long time in other countries. One of the best books on the subject is called Victims in the war on crime: the use and abuse of victims' rights, and is by Markus Dubber, who studies countries that have adopted political-criminal programs aimed at the hardening of criminal repression. The results are known: much more prisoners, much more crime, less reparation for victims, less social support. What we think is that the rights of victims must be of their own relevance and not as a political weapon in the war against crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The time has come for us to turn victim rights into a case that deserves to be pursued by itself. In the report, we found the testimony of a man who was a child when he was the victim of abuse by a priest in a college. At some point, he says: « I, who have a terrible memory of happy episodes spent in this school, have vivid memories of these sessions that took place not in the Church, but in a college office. Do not keep on seeking. ” What is required of us is that we help our children build more happy memories. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u75	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] [[At the moment, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u77	Mr President: Those and those to whom we must have the courage to have given their testimony to the Independent Commission have been abused. But before I said, there were those who used them, manipulated them, blackmailed them. Our duty to these people, our fellow citizens, and their courage is to take them seriously, is to work to be consistent, so that it never happens again and never—never! — allow them to be re-used, manipulated or blackmailed, never to be the subject of particular interests. That is why this debate is one of many walks this House is going to take. But I am proud that the Free, like other parties, from the Left Block to the Liberal Initiative have decided to create a working group to address this problem. It is not worth coming with populism, which exists now, against working groups and committees, as has been said today: « Ah, another working group». But we are meeting here because there was a committee that worked and because that committee asked for another committee to be made more transversal. [[CH protests.]] In the working groups, you work, and in this one you will work a lot. It is not only with a gross measure that ends abuses; it is bringing together the valid ideas of all those who are working seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u78	Mr. Deputies, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u79	We are proud to be with those, all of us, from the Left Block to the Liberal Initiative, who are at the service, and not to serve, of the victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u80	Hit your palms, or he'll get sad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u81	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor. [[CH protests and L-protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now Mrs Alma Rivera's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, with the release of the report of the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse against Children in the Portuguese Catholic Church, they were of public knowledge very serious facts of repeated practice of crimes of sexual abuse of children and young people by members of the Church. It is necessary to address a word of solidarity to the victims, but also of greeting for their courage to break silence. May your contribution help other victims to take that path. It is also necessary to acknowledge the work done by the Independent Commission and the authors of its report, which will also bear the marks of the pain they have witnessed. All that was known is absolutely shocking, revolting. All the more so because the report itself indicates that situations of abuse are not something distant, but have taken place in a recent past involving people in the workforce and that they may have continuity if the necessary measures are not adopted. in this sense, we reiterate that the conclusions of the Portuguese Episcopal Conference, so far known, do not correspond to the gravity of the situation and, as many Catholics and even priests have said, expect preventive and administrative measures from the Catholic Church that, up to judicial and canonical conclusions, allow the alleged abusers of public life to be removed. on the part of the judicial authorities, having suspicions of the practice of crimes, it is mandatory that all responsibilities be cleared up to the latest consequences. If there is no means for a speedy action, then they have to move on to those means. This is an intolerable situation that, either by its gravity, by its frequency and duration, or by the moral duty that has been too often silenced, or by the dilacent impacts that have had on the lives of the victims, must be combated. of the conclusions drawn by the Independent Commission, we all deserve careful reflection and action. Today, some proposals are under discussion that meet the recommendation made by the Independent Commission, to change the age of the offender from which they begin to begin to prescribe: from the present 23 to the 30 years. This is related to the age from which the victims are willing to report the crimes, but also to the need to give more extended maturation time on the possible consequences of a complaint. We will follow the proposal that adopts this recommendation, but on the part of the Assembly of the Republic, of the Government, of all decision-making powers, more and more is needed and the various conclusions presented must have a consequence. First of all, there must be no victims and there must be sexual abuse of minors, and not only act afterwards, because that is the easiest thing to do. in this regard, we want to draw attention to other aspects which have been drawn to in the conclusions of the report of the Independent Commission. From then on, awareness-raising for the transversality of the phenomenon of sexual abuse of minors, which can not only cover children of various ages, genders, social, cultural and economic means, as it has special incidence in the family environment itself, restricted and extended. This is a problem that society has to face and that is not confined to the Church. It is necessary to carry out a national study, with a representative sample, on sexual abuse of children in their various spaces of socialization, in order to structure preventive measures and multidisciplinary response, thus points to the Commission. It is necessary, as the Commission tells us, a child's empowerment, to be an agent of his own defense: body notions and his limits, concepts of privacy and privacy, ability to verbalize and appoint the success to those who are affectionately closest to him or to whom he feels most connected. in this, not only do parents have a great role, being trained to promote trust and good communication on sexuality and affection and to know the existing answers, as it is crucial to strengthen the role of school and education for sexuality. Sexual education in schools, as enshrined in the law, must be a reality. There can be no secondaryization of this size of the school. A 2009 law, by which the PCP was beaten, the law of sexual education in school context, is so far from being really effective, largely because the school is strangled with problems. May this also be the focus of reflection. It is not making matters a whisper, it is not sweeping the issues under the carpet, which promotes a life of healthy and happy sexuality, that protect children and, much less, that fights sexual abuse. It is naturally discussing matters, it is teaching children and young people who are the owners of their own body, their affections and their lives, who have rights, that there are behaviors that are not acceptable and that must be told to someone of trust, that things have names and there is no harm in talking about them. [[PCP applause.]] And then you have to believe in children; believe in children and give effect to their story. Existing mechanisms, such as CPCJ (Children and Youth Protection Committees), need to be provided with means to monitor risk situations and detect problems. It is necessary to place all the speed in the evaluation and responses of the justice system, to make a rapid psychological assessment, to protect the child from contact with the aggressor and to support the family. It is also necessary to ensure priority mechanisms for continuous, universal and free therapeutic support to child victims, so that they can benefit throughout life, giving the SNS (National Health Service) to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, children must be protected from sexual abuse, from all forms of abuse, and their rights must be respected. Unfortunately, there are so many children whose very short life is marked by multiple forms of denial of rights, violence and discrimination. None must go through this and, as our Constitution imposes and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children, all children must be guaranteed the right to be desired, the right to love and affection, the right to protection and special care, respect for their own identity and full development, the right to participation and opinion, their physical integrity, adequate food, clothing, housing, health, safety, education and education, well-being and comfort. They have the right to play, the right to be happy and the right to be protected children. They can all be! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u83	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our words are, of course, addressed to children, young people and adolescents and to those who, today adults, were or are victims of sexual abuse, to all the victims who gave voice to silence and to all those who remain in silence. The special frailties of children associated with the severity of the damage caused, of such heinous aggressions, widely justify the shock and revolt we feel. The truth is that this matter, which has always deserved our total rejection and incomprehensibility, has experienced a long period of devaluation and disconsideration. Unfortunately, because of their nature, the sexual abuse of minors tends to be accompanied by very low rates of participation, either because they are still a taboo theme, either because of the feelings of shame, fear and guilt that they cause, but also because of systemic concealment and the silence that perpetuates indefinitely, and perhaps endlessly, the suffering of the victims. Therefore, it is so important to unlock, discover and give voice to silence, that we may all reflect and act. A word of recognition is needed for the exhaustive work prepared by the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse against Children in the Portuguese Catholic Church. in this report, there are two paradigmatic questions about silence, which has proved a real weapon in sexual abuse of minors. I quote the first: “What did the abusive person say to approach you? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Many respondents replied: « Nothing». Apparently reducing, this "nothing" is well revealing of the perception of the right/power that the adult feels in relation to the child, without having to be verbalized. The "nothing" still demonstrates its silent, uncommunicated proximity, also, of course, uncommunicated by the child who suffers from it. It is a 'nothing' based on an adult's power and domain structure over it. And I also quote the second: "And what did he say after the abuse? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In most cases, the victims stressed that after the abuse had occurred they were expressly asked or given a secret order, being common to the abuser sometimes resort to various forms of blackmail about the child. And it is silence, before and after sexual abuse, that questions remain to be answered: why do they not speak of what they have suffered? When do they do it, how and to whom do they reveal it? What is the prevailing attitude of those who hear them? There are several factors that may have an impact on the child's will, or young, to reveal the situation that he was a victim, but there is an obvious conclusion: the overwhelming majority of these serious crimes committed against children are not punished, too, because they do not even come to the knowledge of the judicial or police investigation authorities. This happens, not only because of the absence of the victim's manifestation, but also because of the omission of someone with complaints duties, by devaluation, by covert, by cowardice, what is censored. [[PSD applause.]] So we're talking about a scary tip of the iceberg. There is a need for a strong legal framework for the protection of children, which facilitates a coordinated approach between the various actors involved in their protection and support, and which bets on prevention, so that the entire system can effectively transmit to the victim the confidence and security necessary to their procedural initiative and intervention. in some cases, only years later, when the victim begins her sexual life, or when another event causes her to relive these memories, it is the need to reveal the situation of sexual violence in childhood or adolescence. In view of this fact, considering, on the one hand, the enormous seriousness of the crimes in question, the widespread feeling of disapproval that they cause in the community, and on the other hand, the certainty that the will to denounce such crimes is not formed, in these victims, as in the other crimes, requiring more time of maturity, sufficient to be aware of what has happened and gain the necessary force, the weighting on the counting of the limitation period can, and should be done, also ensuring that the criminal prosecution of the offender, after the victim has reached the majority, occurs for a longer period. Nothing, nor anyone, can ever erase the suffering and the effective memory of these moments and, to this extent, are irreparable and incurable damage. But it is possible to understand what can be done by the victims. It is necessary to find solutions for the prevention of future crimes and reparations. It is necessary to promote the discovery of truth with available and effective means and instruments. It is here, within the House of Democracy, that the legislative process must be initiated, because it is the rule of law that is responsible for providing answers, and the PSD will be present and available! [[Congratulations from PSD and from PS members Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u85	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We can always make all the excuses we want not to do what needs to be done. We can say what we want from what the Commission has said, but the results are very clear: the Commission recommends that the maximum age for submitting complaints rise to 30 years. You can turn around, it's here. It's in front of everyone to see. The speaker displayed a document. The proposal of the Reach is precisely that way, to allow the deadline to begin at the age of 30. Now we're going to see if the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the Democratic Social Party, are, or not, according to this, because what you get here is what the Commission recommends. Mr. Fernando Negrão, we can say what we understand about what he said, or did not say, the leader of the PSD, but I went to confirm whether he was wrong about what he said. It says here that Luís Montenegro defends the increase in the deadlines for such crimes. The speaker displayed a copy of the newspaper news. Sir, you're here! It wasn't me who invented it. Unless there is another Luís Montenegro, which is around there and which is also called Luís Montenegro! To read again: « Luís Montenegro defends an increase in the limitation period for crimes of abuse of minors ». First news. Another news: « Luís Montenegro available to increase the limitation period for crimes of sexual abuse ». Luís Montenegro! Is it another Luís Montenegro? How many Luís Montenegro is there? Oh, my God! He's here! The speaker displayed a copy of the newspaper news. But yesterday, and I quote: « Luís Montenegro will be implacable...» — the news said — «... and will already increase the time limits for the prescription of sexual crimes». My gentlemen, excuse me, there can't be another Luís Montenegro walking around alone, can there? One to campaign, with the PSD flags, and so on! Open... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] Don't! He, the president of the PSD, defended this yesterday! [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] So today, we have here the proposal that raises the start of counting these deadlines for 30 years. How will the PSD vote? Oh, my God! If you do not vote in favour, it is better to tell Luís Montenegro to fix all things, put things in the bag and leave! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u87	Because there is no longer a PSD. There is the PSD of Parliament and there is the PSD of the fair, which is running around. Isn't it? [[Congrats from the CH.]] The honourable Member can therefore say: 'Ah, Dr. Luís Montenegro said that we were going to make a reflection'. Mr President, that is not what you are here! The speaker displayed a copy of the newspaper news. Therefore, you may want a reflection to be made, but you have not been elected leader of the PSD, nor does you represent the PSD as president—or do you want, I know! — but the truth is that your leader said he was defending what we are proposing today. That is why we are no longer very hopeful, Mr President. On the other hand, the hope on that side of humanity, for us, has already been lost. Our hope is that, on this side of the bench, there is still the slightest sense to realize that the victims are needing us and want legislative changes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u89	And it's not tomorrow, nor is it a working group, not two. It's today! It is as the apostle said: “It is time! » It is time to change the law, and we can do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u91	It's up to us, it's up to us to have that will. Finally, Mr President, we can always say that this will make the protection of the victims worse, protect the victims, etc. Mr. Deputies, in the United Kingdom, in Canada, in New Zealand, there is no time limit for these crimes. There isn't! It doesn't even exist. In Germany, the deadline is 20 years after 30 years of the victim. Germany, the dignity of the human person. Mother of heaven! Germany, of the dignity of the human person, begins the deadline to 30 years of the victim! In Spain, the law has recently been changed to begin at age 35. There is no prescription in the Netherlands. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, where do you want to walk? Do you want to get closer to Venezuela or do you want to get closer to the best examples we have in Europe? [[Congrats from the CH.]] So that's what's at stake here! That's what's at stake! It is to get closer to the best in Europe or, as always, to stay behind, to the worst in Europe and to the worst in the world. Now, the word is from Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u92	Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u93	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u94	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u95	I think it is important, Mr André Ventura, to read exactly what the President of the PSD, Luís Montenegro. I know you have some fixation with the PSD, including with Luís Montenegro. In fact, it appears that there is a novel written by itself in which the character even is called Luís Montenegro. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u96	Interpellation is at the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u97	Mr President, you have to address the question to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u98	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u99	Please. Quiet request, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u100	I would like to say that it would be important for everyone to have access to the precise statements made by the President of the PSD on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u101	The honourable Member will be pleased to indicate to the Bureau what is the digital link that can be used to distribute the information referred to by the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u102	He doesn't even know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u103	Mr Andre Ventura also wishes to speak for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u104	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u105	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u106	It is an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, with two points. The first is to make the House clear and reassure the whole, and Mr. President too, that I have no personal fixation with Dr. Luís Montenegro, nor any personal obsession with Dr. Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u107	Mr, this is not an appeal to the Bureau. It's just a joke of bad taste!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u108	No, no! But as far as the leader of the PSD bench said, the arrival also asks for the distribution of the news where it can be read: « If there is a need for the criminal law to extend the limitation deadlines, we will follow this evolution ». That's what Louis Montenegro said yesterday, and I'm going to ask it to be distributed by everyone. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u109	You now have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the members of the Independent Commission and all the victims who have voiced silence. Talking is an act of courage, it is to revive trauma, and it is only worth it if this sharing is compensated with empathy and change. In the Church, that didn't happen. Neither empathy nor immediate commitment to the proposed changes. But the State has much to learn from the recommendations given to the Church and society in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u111	And the PS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u112	The analysis of the report and its recommendations helps us, as holders of sovereign bodies, to act. The highest percentage of children was abused between 10 and 14 years of age. Most abusers are men, adults, heterosexuals. We need channels of complaint.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u114	The abuser tries to neutralize the pathological and criminal aspect of the act, normalizing it before the child, giving him a false meaning or denying his event, projecting to the other, including the figure or will of God, his hypothetical cause and concreteization. This is particularly violent, because abuse is committed by whom, for the child, represents Jesus on earth. It is therefore a double abuse, because priests are, for children and young believers, a place of discontent, confession and forgiveness. in others, abuse is attributed to the child as being after all a will to his, something that he desires or will positively value in the future. In most cases, the victims stressed that, after the abuse had occurred, they were expressly asked or given a secret order, being common to the abuser sometimes resort to various forms of blackmail about the child, for example, with the threat of disclosure of their behavior to other family members or friends. “ The contempt and humiliation, ridiculing it in its ever more fragile relationship with the adult, increase the feelings of loneliness and abandonment [...] The statements testify to the emotional climate of terror, a true attitude of “the futility of evil ” in the words of the report. The majority of respondents say that, on the success, there is no possible repair, but there is an expectation: that of the need for psychological, psychiatric, current and future support, request for forgiveness and desire for commitment to future responses, adequate prevention and intervention. The sexual abuse of children in the Portuguese Catholic Church has existed in the past, and still exists in the present, and we know that the Commission has captured the tip of several icebergs regarding the aspects of this phenomenon, lived in certain historical times and institutional places. The concealment was systemic. In view of this, if the Church stands by the conclusions of the report, the State and society are not outside. We want the crimes committed to be investigated by the rule of law in respect of the separation of powers. We want to extend the duties of participation and we want none of this to happen again. It is our duty to take note of the pointed need for a national study on sexual abuse of children in their various spaces of socialization. We must be firm in the unequivocal recognition of the rights of the child, reflecting more, listening to those who know most, controlling all the spaces at risk, without exceptions and without subservience. It is our duty to put an end to sexual fear and subjugation, precisely empowering children and families on the subject. The school has to educate for a free, healthy sexuality and for the training of children about their rights. How bad are those who fight what the Commission says, on behalf of the so-called gender ideology. How bad they are! [[P.S., BE, and L.]] Here too in Parliament we will be able to hear the Independent Commission and all of us who can help us improve the state's response to the protection of children's rights, which are human rights. A working group will be set up, on the initiative of all parliamentary groups, with the exception of arrive. Justice cannot be slow, and it was clear the fundamental role of social communication in research and treatment of the subject, which must be protected and strengthened. Nothing can stay the way you did. While we are debating, there are victims of trauma, which can have terrible consequences, and there are victims who are offended and disappointed. on the part of the rule of law, on our part, there can be neither subservience nor inconsequence. We will do everything we can to combat emotional iliteracy on the real needs of child development, especially in the field of affective and sexual. The eradication of child sexual abuse must be a design of democracy and therefore a design of democrats and Democrats. [[P.S., BE, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u115	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a father, as an uncle, as a teacher, as a Portuguese, this issue is -I am particularly hard to address. But let's see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It must be noted that the PS and some left are trying to make this whole debate just about the Church. But this debate is not just about the Church, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The problem of sexual abuse goes far beyond the Church. There are judicial police numbers that refer to approximately 2500 cases, on average, of sexual abuse, in the last five years. So, we're not talking about any estimates for 72 years, we're talking about real cases. Over the past five years, approximately 2500 cases have been reported, on average, in the Judicial Police. Last year, only 92 people were arrested. I repeat, there were only 92 detainees. So what we have is a huge impunity for what is happening in Portugal. The gentlemen. Members on the left—and here I also include the Liberal Initiative—they want to focus on the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church, of course, has its responsibilities, and here we call them, so that they may be harassed. But this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a problem that goes far beyond that. Let's see! Caesar what is of Caesar and men what is of men. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u117	«Give Caesar what is Caesar's, and God what is God's.»
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u118	We are a sovereign body, and we are a sovereign body to legislate, and it is with legislation that we can give the Members weapons. Judges of the Nation so that, with all, as a society, we can protect our children. A society that does not protect our children, our children—and there are so few already, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a society that is very close, even very close, to its destruction. What they ask the Church, Mr. Members, this should be requested from all civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u120	We should also remind someone who has already presided over this House and who, when referring to a case of pedophilia, said that "piii" was the secret of justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The party's politicians involved in this case should be remembered very well. Do you want to make independent commissions? All right, let's do this. Make independent committees for your parties; make independent committees for institutions that are under the protection of the Ministry of Education; make independent committees under the protection of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security; make independent commissions for sports federations, and let's see how many thousands of cases we will have reported in Portuguese society. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be courageous and, indeed, we cannot come here to take advantage of the sexual abuse of the Church in order to wash the face of some and some in this Parliament, because here, by our bench, they will not pass. I also want to say, very clearly, that if, in fact, a priest is the image of Jesus Christ on earth, a paedophile is the Antichrist on earth — be a priest, be a teacher, be a politician, be a television presenter, be an ambassador, whatever he is, be a doctor, be a nurse, wherever he is, is the image of the Antichrist and must be punished and severely punished. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And I also want to say that sexual education is something that is done in families. Families have the right and the honor and they know what to do with their children. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] To say in schools that a child is not born a girl or a girl is born a boy and that, something or something, it can be all mixed up in the pot and you know what will give, that, yes, it is abuse, that, yes, they are bad-treatment, that, yes, it is ideology and doctrine. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga of Costa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Shock, revolt, indignation, repudiation, stupefaction, monstrousness, these are some of the words that occur to us and that provoke a legitimate indignation on the part of all of us. It's pretty hard, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to express in words the news that has come to the public in recent days and that has overwhelmed the Portuguese. We speak of acts and heinous crimes, absolutely shocking and totally unacceptable, perpetrated against innocent children. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 20 years after the shock revealed with Casa Pia, we are again confronted with equally shocking reports of sexual abuse repeatedly committed against children. It's a lot of revolt, it's a lot of indignation, it's a lot of suffocation in the face of these facts, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Our first word is therefore condemnation of the relentless condemnation of all those responsible for the practice of these repugnant crimes. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no tolerance, nor today, nor yesterday, nor tomorrow, nor ever before this monstrousness. All those responsible must be severely punished, no one is above the law. This is a requirement of society as a whole, but, more than that, it is an obligation that we all have to deal with the victims of such heinous crimes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to leave a word of solidarity to the victims and enhance the courage they have had to denounce the abuses they have suffered. We are all aware of the difficulties and constraints that make this process difficult — circumstances, these, which are aggravated when crimes occur in smaller and isolated regions, where proximity to the aggressor is greater and the denunciation becomes much, but much more difficult — and the special vulnerability of the victims, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We speak of children and young people who, for years and years, have been silenced and have suffered irreparable damage, which we will perhaps have much difficulty in evaluating. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also highlight the creation of the Independent Commission and the public disclosure given to the report of the abuses committed in the Portuguese Catholic Church. The conclusions of this report are devastating. They realize that between 1950 and 2022, at least 4815 children, I repeat, at least 4815 children were sexually abused by priests and other members of the Catholic Church, were harassed by those who had the special responsibility of protecting them and who had the convivial silence of high officials, which is truly unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to all its legal dimension, this process calls for an ethical and moral dimension to which no one can be indifferent. Regardless of what justice is being done, the Portuguese await and demand more of this institution; they do not satisfy themselves with a mere request for forgiveness to the victims, require immediate measures, concrete measures, consent and consequential to the seriousness of the acts in question. Without prejudice to the principle of presumption of innocence, the Portuguese consider that there must be internal consequences and preventive procedures that will restore confidence and ensure the tranquillity of all. Yes, they believe that the Church has the duty and obligation to seek compensation for all the victims, for that is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since the pain of these is simply irreparable. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have seen with this debate, the generality of the political forces is concerned about this issue, which has shaken and shocked the country. In fact, we all have a collective responsibility for these children and for these young people. The seriousness of the testimonies presented, the extent of the abuses and the suffering of the victims require serious and profound reflection. A reflection on future legislative changes and the strengthening of public policies, always in view of the prevention of these occurrences; a reflection on the means, monitoring and supervision in the institutions; a reflection on the repair of damage and the prevention of new crimes in the future; a reflection that reflects on the respect and dignity that the matter deserves us, so that these situations never happen again and never repeat themselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have a duty to continue to give voice to silence; we all have a duty to create conditions for the culture of silence never to repeat again and never to be installed again, wherever it may be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u123	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This fixation of the agenda by the Arrival is a good opportunity to talk about hypocrisy in public life. On the hypocrisy on the part of the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, I make myself the words of Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, and of so many other Members, because, after decades of covertness and convivence, the Catholic Church still has the opportunity to do what is right and, on the way, also, to end the deep sadness and disappointment of millions of faithful who hope that their Church will take a clear and unquenchable position on abuses. It didn't start well, but it's still in time. There is, however, another obvious hypocrisy in this agenda, which is the hypocrisy of arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u125	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u126	It is that in this debate the Commission is attempting to make a political use of the suffering of the victims and the widespread condemnation that these horrible crimes have generated in Portuguese society. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Try to take advantage of the justified social alarm to give space to the vindictive impulses typical of coffee conversations. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] In your view of society, they send the most clumsy impulses; in ours, the dignity of the human person commands more than coffee conversations. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u127	The example of this hypocrisy is not only in the diplomas of safe inspiration that we are discussing today, it is also in the proposal of castration of paedophiles, already several times brought to plenary and now contained in the draft constitutional review of the Arrival. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] The proposal began as a physical castration, and was up to the draft constitutional review of 2020. After that, the proposal became chemical castration and, in the last version, it is already voluntary chemical castration. It is well known that chemical castration does not solve anything, it can only be applied during the duration of the sentence, which normally coincides with the imprisonment period, and does not prevent recurrences. [[Protests by CH Deputies Pedro dos Santos Frazão and Rita Matias.]] But still, he insists on several versions of this proposal, not because he is truly concerned about the protection of children, but because he wants to be seen to defend anything that contains the word « castration». And why? Because, simply, any focus group, any survey, told them it was a popular measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u128	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u129	Simple answers to complex questions, political positions to satisfy the crowd: here is the essence of populism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u130	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u131	You are in your right to do politics like that, do not expect anyone else — and certainly not the Liberal Initiative — to accompany you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u133	And don't expect them to recognize your authority, when they criticize the PS for ruling by focus groups, in the taste of opinion polls, because it's not just the statism that unites the arrive and the PS, it's also the way to make politics. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u134	But they even slapped you! They slapped you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u135	I'd like to say that you guys are very good for each other. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u136	Knock your hands now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u137	Mr President, you have a request for clarification, but you do not have time to answer. In order to make the request for clarification, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u138	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, as the Liberal Initiative knows, for us, this is a very important and very important issue. We have no doubt: the place of pedophile is in prison, and that is where we want to keep it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We have no doubt: the place of pedophile is in prison. We know IL doesn't think so. It's legitimate! But don’t come with polls, assume: “We think pedophiles should walk there loose. » Assume :"We are so liberal that we think the pedophiles should walk loose. » It is an option, Mr, but it is not ours. What is not understood is that the debate has arrived, the Liberal Initiative has come here to say that it is a tremendous populism and that it does not take advantage of the victims and then make a drag to debate here today, in this plenary, the same subject. Mr President, it is no longer only opportunism and hypocrisy, it is a tremendous ashecie on the part of your bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's a tremendous ashecie on your bench! More: on December 2, 2022, they say that the prescription will not solve any problem, that changing the rules of the prescription does not solve anything; today they present a proposal to change the limitation deadlines. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, do a favor to the right, do a favour to the political spectrum on the right and, on these matters, do as Wittgenstein said : on what cannot be spoken, one must keep silent. Keep quiet about this. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u139	The one who kept quiet was arrive!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u140	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This, more than a debate as you have seen, should be a debate without political colors. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u142	Children do not choose politics A, B or C; children choose to be happy, respected and to see their rights safeguarded. That is why what we are witnessing here today was a tremendous injustice towards our children. And let me tell you that arrive brought the issue of combating child sexual abuse to the debate. For some convenience, PS, PSD, extreme left, wanted to take the theme to the Church. Unfortunately, these cases did not occur only within the Church. Unfortunately, these cases occur every day in the various institutions, in the various entities of our civil society. This is what we want to end with, but that is what you want to hide, speaking in this debate, only in the Church. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too serious a debate to be attended by speeches such as Mr Fernando Negrão, in response to a question put by Mr André Ventura. in this debate, Mr Fernando Negrão should focus on respect for children and forget the biases, which at nothing contribute to the happiness and life of these children. With regard to the Member of the Left Block, who talks about sexual education, I will tell you something that you do not know, but that you should record: the role of school is to educate, that of the traditional family is to teach. [[PS, PSD, BE, and PAN laughter.]] Sorry, on the contrary, I ask forgiveness: the role of the school is to teach, that of the family is to educate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You learn this once and for all! The school has the competence to teach and it is in the family that education is given. Only then will the children follow a good path.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u143	Where there's more abuse in the family!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u144	Let me tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's children are the men of tomorrow and we, as politicians, have the duty to protect them, we have the obligation to legislate in this House to defend them, to protect them and not to feed them and to protect those who do, with these children, the barbarities to which we all witness. I shall finish, Mr. President, with a phrase from Pythagoras, which says... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u145	I know it costs you, but you have to accept it! As I said, I end with a phrase from Pythagoras : « educate children, so that adult punishment is not necessary». And I added something else to the sentence: we take responsibility and punish...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u146	Let's put it on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u147	...adults, not to punish our children anymore. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u148	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Temido has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sexual abuse of children is certainly one of the crimes that most shocks contemporary societies, which most shocks us all. It confronts us with non-compliance with the duty to care for and commitment to protect, which is the role of adults in relation to children. Adults who, in many cases, were those in whom children most trusted, for emotional and even institutional reasons. But it is worth remembering that, on this subject, as in others, social perceptions have changed. The report of the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Portuguese Catholic Church, which is today the background of most of the proposals under discussion—and four of them, of the Arrival, have this reference— reveals to us the silence of the Church, but also of society in general, referring to that, and I quote, «it will not have had, the Church, omission other than that of families and society(...) characterizing the culture of time(...). The concealment of the phenomenon ultimately corresponded to a culture. Wrong culture, but to an accepted culture». More than anything, we therefore need this culture to change. In fact, it would have been the understanding of this need for change that led Pope Francis to ask, repeatedly, and for some years, zero tolerance in this field, issuing clear guidelines as to the procedures to adopt in the face of complaints of sexual abuse of children. These guidelines refer to — and it is worth recalling — that, "without prejudice to the rights and obligations laid down on each site by State laws", the clergyman who "knows or has grounds for supposing" that an offence has been committed, consisting of "making sexual acts with a minor", has an obligation to promptly point out the fact to the Ordinary of the place", provided that "if the facts or circumstances so require, appropriate protective provisions or measures may be adopted against the investigated person" and that ecclesiastical authorities should endeavour to provide the offending persons and families "medical, therapeutic and psychological assistance". It is this desire for change, this Church, which matters, perhaps, to support. But the cultural change we need is inseparable from the need to place children who are victims of sexual abuse at the center of our action, at the centre of our concerns. The victims heard in the independent report tell us clearly that the recognition of abuse by abusers and society is the first step towards the possible repair of a trauma that does not go out for the rest of their lives. We are also told that conditions must be created so that the past does not repeat itself. And we — all of us! — we must respond positively to them. There will certainly be room for improvements in the legal framework applicable to the type of crime in question, but it must be borne in mind that the amendment of the respective legal framework — even in form, which may be important, and that the Commission recommends, of changing the age of the offender to start counting the limitation period — may not be sufficient. It is even necessary to invest in social change, which leads us to a more equal society, because those who abuse, the various kinds of abusers always feel invested in a power that no one has in relation to another. We owe this idea a firm fight, and the report of the independent committee brings us several weapons to carry it out. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u150	The Bureau no longer records requests for intervention and, therefore, we passed... [[Pause.]] After all, it seems that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves wants to use the floor, so he has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u151	A little while ago, they cut off our word! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u152	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u153	See if they decide! It's 120, it's too many!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr André Ventura said recently that he believed there were several Members. Drs. At the end of this debate, we fear that there are several Members. Mr Ventura or at least two. So the question that I would like to leave the House is the following: in which of the two Mrs. Mr. André Ventura, can we believe this? Mr. André Ventura spoke recently, defending the irrecritibility of crimes or the worsening of prescription deadlines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u155	I said that's the way it is in Germany!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u156	... but Prof. André Ventura, in his Criminal Law Lessons, wrote the following, and I will quote: "For several years, some authors have defended the idea of uncompromising crimes. Crimes of those who, by their nature, were so serious, so heinous that societies should never forget them. But the community quickly realized that criminal law would have to have barriers. Whether, or not, the nature of criminal law is temporary, contextual, historical and factual'.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u157	It's on our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u158	My question is this: must we believe in Prof. André Ventura or Mr. André Ventura? [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] My other question has to do with the increase in the duration of the prison sentences and the chemical castration, which has returned here today to defend. This is what Mr. André Ventura defended. However, Prof. André Ventura... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... he wrote emphatically about the principle of humanity of penalties, saying: "the principle of humanity of penalties has yet another relevant dimension, which is linked to the absolute limit imposed by the notion of the dignity of the human person, the ultimate foundation of the constitutional order. This notion prevents criminal penalties from being instruments of degradation of the human condition, even when legal goods of a higher nature are involved. For example,..." says Prof. André Ventura — «... could not be applied a life imprisonment or use any form of torture, even if, to the limit, such a fact could save some human life». [[CH protests.]] We agree, we follow the opinion of Prof. André Ventura, who would like to find more in this House. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u159	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u160	Mr President, I think that the honourable Member realizes more than what she wanted to bring here today, because the honourable Member knows very well — as I also know — that all the examples I gave her of chemical castration, particularly in the context of the constitutional review, were precisely to demonstrate the opposite, that is, because they happened in legal systems which, like ours, defended the dignity of the human person. It is precisely because of the dignity of the human person that we defend the chemical castration of pedophiles. In fact, Mrs Deputy, there are two interpretations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u161	There are two! There are two Montenegroes and two Andrés Venturas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u162	There are those who want to take on the dignity of the human person to say that nothing can be done, that nothing can change in criminal law, and there are those who, like us, believe that there can be chemical castration, even in ordinations where there is human dignity. I gave you a very varied example of this, and today I gave you more examples, which you could read in addition to them, as is the case with Canada, the case with the United States, Germany or the case with France. In all of them there is dignity of the human person and all of them have the imprecisibility of these crimes. That is why, Mrs Deputy, our proposal is not to create the unpredictability of the crime of sexual abuse of minors, it is that, at the age of 30, it begins to begin with the limitation period.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u163	That is not your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u164	That is very different from what Mrs Deputies here brings today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u165	That is not your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u166	We are going to meet exactly what the Independent Commission has said. The PS prefers to apologize, not to be on the side of what the Independent Commission has said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u167	That is not your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u168	We are next to justice; you are next to the bandits, as always! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u169	In reply, Mrs Cláudia Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with the final question, raised by Mr André Ventura. It is not true that the Arrival has presented projects that match exactly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u171	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u172	... by no means, or by no means, with the proposal of the Independent Commission. In fact, today I did not understand whether the honourable Member understood what the Commission's proposal is. [[CH protests.]] They presented a first bill, which was Bill No. 370 / XV / 1. in which they argued that the limitation period would begin to run when the victim was 30 years old; what the Commission proposes is that it end when the victim is 30 years old. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u173	So there is no such thing as this! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm talking about the bill, and it's hard to tell me that I know the bill of arriving better than the bill itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] But in the first bill, which was paragraph 370 / XV / 1. a, that's what they're proposing. in this, which now present — Bill No. 600 / XV / 1. a — they have taken a step forward, in fact, because with regard to Article 118 (5). the Criminal Code has a proposal similar to that contained in the report of the Independent Commission. However, the problem is Article 118 ( 1 ). o,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u174	What's the matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u175	...that the gentlemen. Members want to change against everything that supports the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u176	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u177	So, the gentlemen. Members have not yet been able to find a project that matches the proposal of the Independent Commission. In any case, returning to the beginning of the matter raised, he tried to tell us something I never thought to hear, that is, he tried to say that he respects the dignity of the human person and defends the chemical castration, because it is compatible with the defense of the dignity of the human person. In the face of this, there is only one doubt: what do you think is not compatible with the dignity of the human person? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I hope you don't hear him say one day that we have under-utilized furs and that you can hang sexual aggressors in furs. That's not our position. I have just mentioned once again Mr Andre Ventura, who has another statement with which I agree. [[CH protests.]] Prof. André Ventura has another statement with which I fully agree. Prof. André Ventura agrees with what Figueiredo Dias, Master and Dean of the Faculty of Law of Coimbra, said to be the defense of our republican soul, and says: « Defending the constitutional spirit is to defend the city's walls. Defending the city walls is not always winning the war, it is often to lose it, but we have the conviction that we must fight for them, through the city walls. » We agree with that, Mr. Professor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u178	You lie to your mouth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u179	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Cláudia Santos, for us, in fact, there is no doubt. For us, the walls of the city are even righteousness, and these are the walls in which we see ourselves. That's what distinguishes us from another group. Yes, we believe in the dignity of the human person. Yes, we believe in the city walls. But in these city walls, we want the protection of all citizens of good. You want to be outside the walls of the prison all the paedophiles of this country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u181	All right! [[Protests by the PS and the Member of the Free Rui Tavares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u182	That is the great difference between us, but there are others too. She asked the honourable Member: "What is compatible with the dignity of the human person? » Do you know what is not compatible, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! It is only that half of those convicted of sexual abuse are free — that is not compatible with the dignity of the human person! It is that half of the cases are filed, because there were no means by whom he was investigating — that is not compatible with the dignity of the human person! It is that there are children abused and, 20 years after the Case Casa Pia de Lisboa, this Parliament has not yet stirred a straw to defend our children. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] This is the difference, as to the dignity of the human person: we learn from the Case Casa Pia de Lisboa! Therefore, it is not only the Church. To the Church today, we say: "They take on your responsibilities. » And the state? Oh, my God! And those who, for years, in state institutions, have violated and abused? Oh, my God! In the Case Casa Pia de Lisboa, which involved politicians and high leaders of this country, over 20 years, what is the dignity of the human person? Oh, my God! Is it beating their palms and letting them go loose? Oh, my God! No, Mrs. Member, for us, the real city walls are when these men and women no longer see the light of the day. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u183	Therefore, in relation to quotations, you can always use this one in the future: "For us, good pedophile is pedophile arrested. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u184	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is coming to an end. Practically, it's over. This debate was largely sparked by something very serious, something which, at the top of the days, concerns what happened in an important institution in this country, something that had an independent committee. This independent committee brought in the light of the day various aspects, various opinions, but above all, testimonies, such testimonies that do not leave anyone indifferent. That is why the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, with other parliamentary groups in this Chamber, proposed in 1. the Commission, a working group that could hear not only the independent committee but also other entities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u186	When? Oh, my God! Today? Yesterday?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u187	...to reflect carefully on legislation for the future, knowing that this issue is not only settled by criminal law. This issue is resolved by appropriate channels of complaint and is done by social intervention with the most vulnerable, so that they know that sexual abuse of minors is not admissible in today's society and is not admissible under any circumstances. We must be next to the victims today and produce legislation that protects them in the future, within a constitutional framework that is the framework of defending the dignity of the human person,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... within a constitutional framework which defends the victim, but which is not a "compressor roll" of rights, freedoms and guarantees. We are a parliamentary group that is particularly aware of the most vulnerable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u188	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u189	... that it is focused on the victims and that it is also focused on the rights of every citizen of this country, on their defense and on the opportunity they have to defend themselves, as well as ensuring that criminal justice is properly applied to those who do not comply with the law, to those who prevariate. I end the intervention of this parliamentary group, saying that there is a lot of work to be done together. This joint work must be done by all the Members of this House, and they count on our parliamentary group to do so. But it must be said, clearly and taxively: this parliamentary group will never be joined by those who take advantage of the victims to do the politics of populism, the policy of punishment, without ever being able, in this Chamber, to talk about the factors that lead to abuse and the institutions that lead to abuse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u190	House Pia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u191	We have reached the limit of having, in this Chamber, a Member of the far right parliament in this debate saying that the left parliament wanted to talk about the Church, when his parliamentary group presents a set of diplomas in which they make a direct reference to the Church and the independent committee—they only do not do so in one. If there was a parliamentary group that wanted to speak of the Church and sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, this parliamentary group was that of the far-right parliament, which, with shame, hid back there, to point the accused finger to the left and to hide that it only marked this debate, in this Chamber, not to safeguard the victims, but to try to rise a few more tenths in polls that are published every week. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] If there was debate that it would be possible to draw a line between the Democrats, among what the Liberal Initiative said, the PS, the PS, the PCP, the Left Block, the PAN and the Free, and the others, was this. On the other hand, there are those who want to solve problems;... [[Mr Rita Matias's laughs.]] ...on the other hand, there's only anyone who wants to live through the problems and grow up with the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u192	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u193	Mr President, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, we had to arrive at the end of this debate so that the PS, his parliamentary leader, would assume his position, since the government, shamefully, chose to be absent on such an important issue as this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u194	The last note I want to leave, before the end of this debate, is about the shameful absence of the Government in relation to sexual abuse of minors. The government will know why!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u196	But, Mr President, we are very comfortable in this matter, whether the Catholic Church is out of it. [[At this moment, the speaker showed some news.]] Look: « It is enough to defend the chemical castration of abusive priests. » Long before any one of you defended whatever it was about this, here was, very clearly, our position on the Church! « Enough defends the preventive suspension of abusive parents. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] Long before any conversation, the victim was already on his side, asking for that justice. That is why, Mr President, the question remains: why was it that only when this debate was already scheduled and marked, only when the legislative initiatives were already on the table was that the Socialist Party tried to wash its face a little bit and come with a working group done at the last hour, excluding the only party that actually brought this issue to debate? No, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! The PS does not want to discuss or analyze the subject. The PS wants to delay this analysis, with more groups, with more discussion, with more legislation. For what? Oh, my God! So there will never be any solution to this. The PS and this parliamentary group know that the longer this is delayed, the better for some in Portugal. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u197	on the side of the defense of these interests, will be the PS ; on the side of the victims, firm, waiting for these interests to be merited and to be placed in prison who has to be placed there, will be our parliamentary group. So, Mr President, if you have the whole parliamentary spectrum with you in defending this matter, although we are not there. This is a sign that, proudly alone, we will succeed and continue to fight the pedophiles in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u198	To reply, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u199	My fault would be good for him!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura did not really ask a question. Mr Ventura says that we are, or intend to set up, a working group that excludes arriving. No, no, no. We made a proposal, which was signed by different parliamentary groups, to form a working group in 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u201	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u202	We didn't get any proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u203	The idea is so good that, as Mr Fernando Negrão said today, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has already made another request, proposing a working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u204	Because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u205	It is therefore with some concern that this debate, once again, has been renewed not to protect the victims—because, as Mrs Cláudia Santos has said, the victims, unfortunately, will no longer be able to use this legal framework which would be built in their favor — but to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens, ending Mr André Ventura and the far-right parliament... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ...for, in this last intervention, in a question to this bench, to speak again about what they really want: to have penalties that violate the dignity of the human being. That's why you've been talking about chemical castration again. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, between the construction of the Constitution, a democratic constitution that protects rights, freedoms and guarantees, and those that are the proposals of the far right parliament, there is a clear red line. That is why, Mr President, you keep saying — as you have just said — a phrase that I would never say on this bench: « Proudly alone. For us, the « proudly alone», never again! The « proudly alone», Mr President, never again! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u206	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u207	Mr. President, I'm done. I say this because, of course, April 25th, always! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u208	Where was he in the Casa Pia Case? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u209	To close the debate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the Government, but the contempt they give for this subject is well in sight. The Government was absent from this debate, as were almost all political parties. Yesterday, it was Women's International Day. We've all been here, knocking on our chest, praising our women. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u211	You guys, what? Oh, my God! Don't count on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u212	The moment we were here... Continuation of PS, PCP and BE protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u213	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u214	Our women, Portuguese women, world women! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u215	I beg your pardon for interrupting, Member of the Commission. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u216	They're very nervous today. That's a good sign!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u217	... that the conditions are created for the debate to be closed. One thing is certain: the debate will not be closed without the parliamentary group which has the right to close it if it can express it. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u218	I will repeat what he said: we have been here to honor our women — the Portuguese woman and the world woman. [[Congrats from the CH.]] At the time we were here, a rapist was being arrested in Loures. I was walking on the subway. She had raped a woman in 2020. This is the justice that exists in Portugal. He should be serving four years in jail. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Four years in jail for a rapist! Also in the sexual abuse of minors, the arrival calls for increased penalties. The fight against sexual abuse of minors in Portugal must be done, it must be practical and effective, and therefore we have brought this issue to debate. As they did not understand what happened during this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u219	Yeah! We're dumb, you're smart!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u220	...I'm gonna do a little mime. Paul sexually abused Joanna, who was 7 years old. Paul sexually abused Mariana, who was 8 years old. Paul sexually abused John, who was 9 years old. Paul sexually abused Eurico, who was 4 years old. Paul sexually abused Joaquim, who was five years old. Paul sexually abused Rodrigo, who was months old. [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] Paul, today, is free from jail, which was where he should be. He should be rotting in jail. That's where the pedophiles belong. That's where they have to pay the penalty for the crimes. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They've all spoken. Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla-Bla, yes, sir, they are all very concerned about the subject, but what is true is that, in speaking in chemical castration and in speaking in perpetual prison, it cannot be. « Human dignity», they say, « human dignity». Has anyone here today spoken about the dignity of the victims? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u222	There is much talk about the human dignity of the pedophiles, but we think a lot about the human dignity of the victims, of those against whom crimes have been committed. We'll always be on the side of the victims, against the criminals. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They are real cases, cases of devastated families, children traumatized. Do not think that only happens in the Church, or here, or there. It happens on a lot of sides. For example, in Évora, a mother allegedly had prevented the 8-year-old daughter from complaining that she was raped by the stepfather; in Loures, there was a prisoner for assaulting the entire family and abusing a 14-year-old daughter; a stepfather and a septagenary were arrested for sexual abuse of children; a couple was arrested for rapeing their own daughter over 18 years. It is not only in the Church that happens. It happens in the Church, and we condemn it vehemently, but unfortunately, it happens daily in our country. It is a reality that we want to hide, that we cannot hide and that we will always have to bring the debate here. We know that the Socialist Party will bring down all our proposals, but we also know that it will be by mere ideology — such "red lines" as Mr Eurico Brillante Dias so much likes to draw and so much like to talk about. But stay in your conscience. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The red line they're tracing is for the minor victims of sexual abuse, not for our party. If there was any party that should be next to the increase in penalties for crimes of sexual abuse, it should be the Socialist Party, even through its past, that shames this whole House and that many try to hide. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Those who today fill their mouths with sexual abuse in the Church are the same as those who tried to hide the Casa Pia Case and who still today hide their face and slip in the chairs when they talk about it. [[All right!]] [[PS protests, having MPs banged their feet on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u223	Incomprehensible is the PSD not to present a proposal on this subject. Incomprehensible... Continuation of PS protests, with members beating their feet on the ground, and counterprotests of CH Deputies. Mr. President, they're still beating. So I can't finish. Continuation of PS protests. Time keeps counting. I'm asking that... Continuation of PS protests. Can I finish? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]] Incomprehensible is the PSD joining the extreme left to leave it out of a working group. Incomprehensible is this form of PSD making opposition. from the PS, we learned that Mrs Cláudia Santos has a good taste for reading. That's a good sign, but that's all that's not enough. They can get us out of the working groups, which only serve to blind people's eyes. With lines or no lines, they won't shut us up! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u224	on our part, we didn't deal with pedophilia crimes. The place of the pedophile is in prison, whether he is priest or judge, political or journalist, tall or low, fat or lean. There must be zero tolerance to sexual abuse of minors, combat without truce and, while there is a case, it means that the political class did not do its work. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u226	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u227	It is to make a political intervention on making an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u228	It is for the defense of the honor of the bench, Mr. President. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u229	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I was afraid this moment would come. The parliamentary extreme right has no limits and that is why the red lines are defined. They are drawn up because, in Portuguese politics and society, within the framework of the community's coexistence, there are fundamental principles. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] The first of them is not only the presumption of innocence, as the right of all institutions to have the possibility and ability to relate to justice and, being innocent, or not even accused, to keep their good name preserved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u231	Any association of any crime of this nature with the Socialist Party alone is insulting. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] It is a free insult to an institution that will be 50 years old this year and that has always been next to democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u232	next to the bankruptcies, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u233	... of freedom, rights, freedoms and guarantees, and that never, never left behind any citizen. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] The Socialist Party, a party of which I have the honour to be militant, leader and, in this case, parliamentary leader, is a pillar of the democratic regime... [[PS applause, stand up.]] ...and can not, under any circumstances, be associated with an infamy like this. The allusions that are made to the Casa Pia Case, which has passed into trial and which has been a very difficult case for the community as a whole, are allusions that come today to the land because the far right parliament never has any proposals or solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u234	Five proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u235	Just today, it's five!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u236	There's only, at the end of the rifle, the infamous insult. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was a need for proof of how, in politics, there is a difference between Democrats and non-democrats today, this was quite clear after this last intervention. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u237	In order to give satisfaction, Mr Pedro Pinto of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u238	Mr President, it had to be this intervention by Mr Eurico Brillante Dias to hit him on his feet, something that had not happened for a long time. [[CH's laughs.]] I had to come to say that from the end, these things, this rhetoric that I like to say, that homily that I like to do at about this hour. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, this is not a presumption of innocence; it is what was public. All Portuguese have heard that they have heard, there have been listening that they have embarrassed all Portuguese and all Portuguese politicians, and that you cannot hide. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What is not a democrat, Mr President, is trying to hide the truth. What is not democratic is trying to hide facts that were real, try to erase listening and all the Portuguese people know about it. [[PS protests.]] I know Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias was not used to this. I know the Socialist Party's bench wasn't used to being confronted, but now it's always going to have a confrontation. from the bank of the Arrival, they're always going to have this confrontation. This is the democratic regime working.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u239	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u240	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, who likes to say « 25 April, never again». We, from here, we say... [[Protests of the PS and L, having beaten Members with their feet on the ground.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u241	They're very nervous! Take it easy, Sporting hasn't started yet! Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u242	Quiet request to the House. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u243	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias likes to say « 25 April, always». We here say: « Casa Pia, never again! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u244	We are thus at the end of the first item on our agenda. Before we enter the second point, since I have not yet had the opportunity to greet and I think it is appropriate to do so here, because I will do so, on behalf of the House, I would like to greet Mr Pedro Roque, our colleague, who was elected, last week, Vice-President of the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. The international protagonist of the Members honours us all. [[General applause, having PSD Members applauded standing.]] We shall then proceed to the vote. I request the services to check the quorum. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register digitally. [[Pause.]] Everyone was able to register. I'm asking the services to close...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u245	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u246	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u247	I couldn't register, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u248	All right, it's manually registered. I ask the services to close the quorum check and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we shall proceed to the vote. We will generally vote for Bill No. 150 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Prevents the suspension of the sentence in the event of conviction for the crime of sexual abuse of children or other related persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, IL, PCP, BE and L and votes against CH and PAN were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u250	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u251	It is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u252	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No. 600 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Increases the protection of victims of sexual abuse of minors, so as to amend the Penal Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u253	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u254	Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u255	It is to announce that we will present a written declaration of vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u256	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 601 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating the penalties applicable to crimes of sexual abuse of children and other related persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PAN and L.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo informs the Bureau that he will make a written statement of vote on behalf of the bench. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 461 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the fight against child sexual abuse. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 504 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Conduct a national victim investigation and ensure the establishment of a permanent sex abuse reporting channel. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and BE and abstentions against the IL, the NAP and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 8 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project goes down to 1. the Commission. We are now voting on the request made by the IL to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 610 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Increases the limitation period for complaints of child sexual abuse by amending the Penal Code. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 611 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Alter the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, extending the prescribed period of crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation being the minor victim. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 1. the Commission. We have thus reached the end of the vote. Mrs. Susana Amador asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u257	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a declaration of vote on draft laws Nos 8 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 611 / XV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u258	All right, get registered. We will now proceed to the reading of the file, which, from now on I notice, is a little bulky. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u259	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law No 65 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which drops to 1. the Commission and the Draft Deliberation No 11 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ). I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 520 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission ; 521 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) ; 522 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; 524 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 525 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 526 / XV / 1. a ( L) ; 529 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 530 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 531 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 6. the Commission ; 532 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 533 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), down to 9. the Commission ; 534 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission ; and 542 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 612 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 613 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 614 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 14. the Commission ; 615 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; 616 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and 617 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 3. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u260	Mrs Lina Lopes, I ask you to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u261	Mr. President and Mr. Members have also entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 618 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission; 620 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 621 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; 622 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 623 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 624 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; 625 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission ; 627 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 628 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 629 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 630 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission; 631 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 632 / XV / 1. a ( L ), down to 5. the Commission ; and 641 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-09.u262	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The plenary tomorrow is set out in the first item on the agenda of the urgent debate required by the Liberal Initiative on the theme « The state of rail transport in Portugal », following the second item on the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 62 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime of sports societies. The third point will discuss the General Account of the State of 2021, following the assessment of Petition No 31 / XV / 1 in the fourth point. a ( Motorists’ Summit Group) — Rapid wear occupation for all heavy-duty vehicle drivers, together with Bill No 588 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Reduction of the age of access to the old-age pension of heavy-duty motorists and Resolution Projects Nos 398 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a study to define the criteria identifying rapid wear and wear professions as well as their regulations 432 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government establish and regulate a specific labour and retirement scheme for workers in the transport sector, 459 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government that the occupation of heavy goods and passenger vehicles be considered to be of rapid wear and 460 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government undertake the lifting of all professions which should be considered to be of rapid wear. At the fifth and final point, we will have a vote. The session is closed. See you tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 42 minutes.]]
