ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. Since there is no file that needs to be read, we enter directly into our agenda, the first point of which is the general appreciation of the Bills No. 792 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies by eliminating the obligation of blue dystics for the public movement of electric vehicles, 808 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies by eliminating the obligation to pay virtual sheets in the claim book, 906 / XV / 2. a ( IL) — It simplifies by extending the validity of the common passport for more than 18 years and ending with the obligation to return the previous passport and 918 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — eliminates the obligation to use the Blue Identification Distinguishment for the public movement of electric vehicles by amending Decree-Law No 39 / 2010 of 26 April 2010. For the presentation of Bill Nos 792 / XV / 1. a, 808 / XV / 1. a e 906 / XV / 2. the, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today I do not intend to waste a lot of time. We are talking about three projects that are, above all, questions of common sense. We have come to propose that the validity of passports be extended from 5 to 10 years, which is the most common in the rest of Europe, and that, as in the rest of Europe, people can keep their old passports. Today they can do it...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u3	Nobody's listening to you! They're walking there... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u4	You did well to interrupt, Mr. Deputies. I would ask the services to reset the time, so that you can have time to make the presentation, and we will wait a bit. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u5	Mr President, I understand, it is too obvious and uninteresting. We were basically talking about having the same passport system as all other European countries, where the validity of adult passports is 10 years and not 5 years, and people can maintain their passport without having to resort to any type of scheme, as is the case today. We also propose that the virtual pages of the complaint book no longer be paid. It made sense they were paid when they were compulsory in physical terms, because it was necessary to produce them, but nowadays forcing companies to pay for virtual pages of the claim book would be more or less the same as the CTT (Emails of Portugal) charge stamps for emails. It is something that remained in the law, which is absurd, and I think it will be difficult to disagree with this. Thirdly, we have come to propose the end of the requirement of the disticium for electric cars. It is true that electric cars have, in some places, the possibility of parking on very specific sites, and for that they need the disticulum. We do not eliminate this possibility, that is, anyone who wants to acquire the disticulum to park at specific locations can do it anyway. As for loading sites, there is a much better solution than the obligation to have a disticus, which is this: if the car is loading, then it is electric; if it is not charging, whether electrical or not, it does not have to be there. It is a much easier solution than introducing a bureaucracy which is more or less the same thing that fossil fuel cars are forced to have a disticulum to enter a fuel station. I will be waiting for the arguments that stand in opposition to this, because, honestly, it seems to me something so obvious... We have discussed here many important things, many things that divide us ideologically, but these bureaucratic nonsense, it seems to me that we should not be divided. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u6	The NAP Member is not present, she is at a meeting of her political family in Brussels, so that we will move on to the interventions. We begin with the PSD, speaking on behalf of this parliamentary group, Mr Jorge Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The four bills under discussion have in common proposals for simplification, amendment or elimination of some administrative procedures that remain in relations between citizens and the State. The Bill No. 808 / XV / 1. the, with a view to eliminating the obligation to pay virtual sheets of the claim book, or, more precisely, eliminating the obligation to pay the claim book in electronic form, due to its relevance to organizations and citizens, deserves the support of the PSD Parliamentary Group. However, in relation to Bill No. 906 / XV / 2. a, the Liberal Initiative, which aims to extend the period of validity of the common passport for more than 18 years and the end of the obligation to return it, despite the agreement of the PSD regarding the delay of validity for 10 years, there are still some reservations regarding the non-return of the old passport. That is, the need to update the biometric data contained in the electronic passport and the densification of the concept of inactivation of them require increased care, as warned by the National Data Protection Commission, so it will be possible to improve this bill in the field of specialty. The Bill No. 792 / XV / 1. a and 918 / XV / 2. the, of the Liberal and PAN Initiative, respectively, with a view to eliminating the obligation of blue dystics for the movement of electric vehicles on the public road, deserve, as appropriate, to revisit some of the arguments of the signatories. These bills are emblematic of the sometimes perverse practices of the bureaucratic model of the Administration, which has required the various governments to implement far-reaching administrative simplification measures, such as Simplex, since 2006. However, the current legislation on electric mobility, Decree-Law No. 90 / 2014, which is the third amendment to the decree-law of 2010, is a legislative pearl - allow me to classify - deep descriptive rigor and tax, perhaps with Kafkian laivos. Or let's see. Article 3. it imposes, and I quote: « Electric vehicles shall affix,... » — or there is here a problem of the verb or there is a problem of the subject — «... for the purposes of movement on the public or comparable routes, the identification log set out in Annex I [...] », the issue of which is the responsibility of the Institute for Mobility and Transport ( IMT ). To this end, the citizen must fill in and deliver the model 13 of the IMT, attach the personal documents and the car and request the disticum, presently, in the IMT counter, which is free of charge, spending a morning or the whole day in the IMT, or paying 5 € for the disticum to come by mail. Once in possession of the blue distic — blue RAL (German Institute of Quality and Certification) 519, white fillet and minimum dimensions of 40 cm per 40 cm,... [[Rice from PSD Member Paula Cardoso and CH Member Bruno Nunes.]] ... this must be placed, in an unmovable manner, which is the same as saying « in self-containing material», in the lower right corner of the windshield. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here are some questions: what if the log is a copy of the net or a scan? What if it's placed on the top right of the glass, or on the back glass? What if we don't put any statistics on it? What's going on? Nothing! Nothing at all. When questioned by the IMT, this explains that the disticulum is not mandatory but that the identification is necessary for drivers to have access to the benefits related to the use of the electric car, such as the use of loading stations and parking spaces reserved for electric cars. That is to say, it is a positive discrimination of electric vehicles in reserved spaces in municipalities, parish churches or other properly planned places. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of the facts, and as reality has surpassed the spirit of the legislator, the obligation to attach the blue dystics to electric cars reveals a redundancy, like the humorous sketch of the Fedorent Cats of 2006, depicting the calvary of a citizen who intended to get a license to walk on the walk. [[Rice from PSD Member Paula Cardoso and CH Member Bruno Nunes.]] In short, and for the sake of common sense, this obligation must be eliminated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u8	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Oliveira now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing four bills, three of the Liberal Initiative and one of the NAP. Allow me to congratulate the Liberal Initiative and Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto for the merit of the initiative. For the Socialist Party, all initiatives aimed at simplifying processes, simplifying the lives of people, businesses, the state, public enterprises deserve our follow-up — the principle, of course — but also our analysis and respect for technical issues. And, welcoming the initiative, it was on the technical issues that I wanted to exchange impressions with you in this debate, in particular on the elimination of the Blue Distice for the circulation of vehicles. The situation we have is, of course, a matter of positive increase, but then the law also provides for penalties. Well, as far as penalization is concerned, we are deeply in line with its elimination. So why can we not support the proposal of the Liberal Initiative? Because we understand that it is located at the parking lot, and what we think is that the disticulum should serve all positive increases, particularly in the zero emission zones, which, without this issue, were eliminated. In other words, the disticulum should never be to penalize those who do not use it. Whoever doesn't want to use, who doesn't want to have a positive increase has that freedom. However, the disticulum should serve for all positive increases, and not only for parking, as it is in the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, contrary to what is contained in the NAP, which provides that there may be this increase in all other situations. With regard to the project aimed at simplifying by eliminating the obligation to pay the virtual sheets of the claim book, the legislation in force aims to encourage the accession of economic operators to the electronic platform of the claim book, and only by its act of accession to the platform, each operator receives a batch of 25 electronic claims free of charge. In addition, whenever a new book of physical complaints is acquired, an additional set of more than 25 complaints is also assigned free of charge. It is important to bear in mind — because this is why we have to work — that according to the data recorded on 31 May 2023, the overwhelming majority of economic operators 99, 7 % have less than 25 electronic complaints, and therefore, of course, the claim book does not represent any additional cost. It should also be borne in mind that the revenues of electronic claims come from operators who tend to prejudge good consumer interaction practices, as well as from large economic operators. So in this situation we have to understand: if there are 99, 7 % below the 20 complaints, which do not have them, is that the incentive? Or are we, in this case, having a wrong incentive? Do we also understand that who has a set of complaints far above the overwhelming majority of other operators should have that benefit? We understand you don't. We understand the goodness of the proposal, but it seems to us that it would have the opposite effect. With regard to the simplification of passports, in particular with regard to the proposal to extend the period of validity from 5 to 10 years for more than 20 years, it should be clarified that the current definition of validity of the Portuguese passport is based on security issues in its use, which at the same time justifies the standards adopted by our services, which determine that the biometric data of citizens are updated every five years, guidance also applicable to passports, travel documents, titles, residence cards issued by these services. The validity of five years, considered appropriate and supported by international recommendations, notably by the International Civil Aviation Organization, increases the safety of the passport as an international identification document, accepted and recognized worldwide. We believe that, at the moment we live, which is a difficult time in terms of security — we must also understand — it does not seem appropriate that, by reason of administrative simplification — and we consider its proposal to be kind, we can call security into question. We understand that we should mature and perceive, also given that technology is evolving, if it is reliable we will increase the renewal of the passport for 10 years. If we do so in the future, we will, of course, be here to approve a proposal from the Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u10	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u11	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I recognize that the initiatives that bring us have their validity and relevance, however, such as the Liberal Initiative, are always out of date. Otherwise, let us see: the extension of the passport deadline. at a time when the Portuguese don't have money to buy drugs and put food on the table, they won't be thinking about traveling, the more on extending the passport deadline, even questioning the issue of national security, as already mentioned, and well. More: at such a critical time for our country, where Portuguese people don't have health care, where Portuguese people don't have teachers for their children yet, we are here discussing details, worried about the complaint book, when unfortunately people almost don't have money to go shopping.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u12	It's not worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u13	Sir, this is all out of time! And then it comes with the question of the blue disticulum for the car. I will remind you of something very simple, Mr President, the disticulum serves only and only to increase the conditions of those who can enjoy it. Otherwise, let us see: can zero-emission circulation zones or can they not benefit from the existence of the disticulum? Have you ever consulted the firefighters and asked, in case of shock, collision and cover-up, how is the rescue done? Do you know there are cars with different specifications from the combustion vehicles, gas oil or gasoline? How is the release of these cars done? Can you tell us? If you're not identified as an electric vehicle, do firefighters need to know all the cars that exist and the form of release? [[Rice from the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Mr President, before these measures are taken, it is better to do an intensive and well-founded study of how this will develop. I would like you to bring to this House concerns about the IUC (one-time traffic tax), because with that, yes, people are concerned. In many cases it will quadruple the value of the IUC in cars with date until 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u14	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u15	I remember — it is not in the country of the Liberal Initiative, it is in the country where everyone lives —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u16	Not real!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u17	... that the middle class and the lowest class do not have cars with registration after 2007 and, as such, will see the value of the IUC tripler or quadrupler. Where is IL's concern with these? Zero! Zero, because they live in Cascais, they live in the Royal Prince and have more recent cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u19	And then, since he talks about electric vehicles, there is something else he should also mention: support for the purchase of electric vehicles. It is that in 2024 these supports will fall and, in some cases, for vehicles that are considered luxury, will cease to exist. And where is the concern of the Liberal Initiative?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u20	In the disticulum!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u21	It doesn't count anymore... it's the disticulum. Exactly, Mr. Deputies, it's the disticulum. Therefore, this debate, for the Liberal Initiative, is summarized as a disticulum, the validity of a passport or the non-recovery of the digital claim book. Mr. Deputies, our concerns are much greater: it is the health of the Portuguese, it is not a dististic;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u23	... is the education of Portuguese, it is not a passport; it is dignity, food at the table and pharmacy, and not a blue distic. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u24	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Members : Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto — and the PAN too — brings some bills which, as a rule, have to do with simplifying certain obligations. Finally, of course, the question of speeding up the functioning of the State is, in principle, an interesting discussion, which has been made over the last few decades in several areas and this has no problem. But, in fact, we would like to raise a few questions to the Liberal Initiative that have to do more with the substantive discussion on this type of proposal, because it is not the first time that the Liberal Initiative brings such proposals. That is, in fact, what these proposals tell us, on its basis, is the view that the Liberal Initiative has on the State and on the role of the State in regulating various matters, and that does not have to do with simplification,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u26	The bide counter-attack!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u27	... because we can and should have a State with simple mechanisms for people to access services and relate to the State. The problem is that these kinds of proposals... it's already the third time! The first was with the bide question,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u28	It was a big worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u29	...the second was the question with the role of car insurance and now we have some others here. Nothing moves us against having more or less role in the car, more or less simplification in how certain processes are made, and this discussion is important. Now, what we cannot let go of is the fact that the Liberal Initiative repeatedly brings these debates, in fact, to avert the role of the State. With what is currently being done, for a few years, of privatization or de-investment in public services, in fact, they have been without a program, because it has been done over the past few years, and then they talk about roles, stamps and distices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u30	Go to the papers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u31	Finally, as you said at the beginning of your speech, I believe that it is not really worth spending much time on this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u32	He doesn't lose himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u33	If the Liberal Initiative itself does not want to waste time with it, we also do not want to, until we share this vision that the Liberal Initiative has about what the state should be. In fact, what this type of proposal tells us—is already the third time they bring it in, and it may be that, this time, we can vote on it, contrary to others — that what the Liberal Initiative wants is that the State does not have any kind of regulation, nor on road safety, nor on how we relate to the State. Therefore, from this point of view, the subject has very little interest in the Liberal Initiative itself and I believe that for most people too. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u34	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in this discussion, at the plenary session of the Assembly, faced with the major issues, the fracturing issues of our society, in particular whether or not the passport validity period can be extended to 10 years; whether the blue disticulum in the windshield of electric vehicles should be required to circulate on the public road or only to park in reserved places; and whether the virtual sheets of the claim book should be free or not. Well, in view of these great issues, these fracturing issues that divide our society,... [[President. — The next item is the report (Doc.]] ... what we think is that the Liberal Initiative itself has given priority to these issues, and here we are discussing what the IL believes should not, however, deserve great attention and great time. So let's try not to spend it. Our answer to the first question, on the passport: nothing against, provided legal certainty and, go there, technique is safeguarded. I thought that a person's biometric data shouldn't change so much in 10 years, but it was obviously wrong. The question remains for later reflection. [[Rice from the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Point Two: Should the distic blue be to walk on the public road or just to park? Nothing against, provided security is guarded and the competent authorities are heard on this matter. Point Three: Should the virtual pages of the complaint book be free or not? The problem is the amount of services and acts of the State which consumers, businesses and citizens must use and pay. Except error, this idea of the user-payer, of the living-payer, goes back to the PEC (the Stability and Growth Pact) 3, of the former Minister Teixeira dos Santos. Therefore, this is a cross-cutting theme to the various aspects of our life and of the Public Administration, for the worst reasons, unfortunately, but, in fact, the problem is deeper than a virtual leaf. The problem is deeper and, say, virtual has nothing, it is very real. Here we go, one more minute, someone who uses it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u36	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. It must be the effect of the subject we are discussing, but it was very fast. I was still signing up and the registration was already being accepted, thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u38	You're early!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u39	Having only one minute, I will focus on one of the subjects that the Liberal Initiative brings and which, on the Free side, seems to make all the sense: that an establishment that has a physical complaint book does not have to pay for the virtual complaint book either. The question I add to the debate is how we claim companies, services, especially digital ones, that do not have physical establishment; and if there is also not a whole world, sometimes equally hard and unfair to consumers, which is not exactly a complicated and bureaucratic playing field by the state, but by the companies and service providers themselves, who take advantage of this lack of regulation to hide fees and hinder access to services. Therefore, I think it is worth discussing this issue and reflecting on why there is no solution to claim digital platforms in Portugal and why there is no regulation with specific deadlines so that the online complaint difficulties are not foreseen. I would like to hear IL's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u40	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor of the Liberal Initiative to close the debate, through Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u41	Mr. President, thank you all. Members who have brought constructive or less constructive contributions. In fact, I thought it was a matter that was well explained in one minute, but it would, of course, take a little more time to explain the importance of this. This debate takes place 15 or 20 minutes ago, not more than that, but the truth is that a person who renews the passport or a person who has to go looking for a disticate spends hours of his life, and when we multiply this by millions of people who make this process every day, we are talking in millions of hours that are lost, every year, in unnecessary processes. So, spending 20 minutes to end these rules, because it's the only way we have... if we could end these rules in a sub commission or a working group we were done, but the truth is that these rules exist, these useless bureaucracies exist and the only way to end them is to bring them to the plenary. That's what we're doing, and, yes, it's a fantastic investment to spend here 20 minutes saving millions of hours on people who go through totally useless bureaucracies. And, no, Mrs. Isabel Pires, this has nothing to do with a state vision. I want to believe that not even your view of state, which is different from ours, includes a huge set of useless bureaucracy. If your state vision includes having a huge set of useless bureaucracies, then say so, because I believe it is not. This is not our vision and should not be that of anyone, because this is saving people hours of work, saving hours of useless work from the Public Administration itself, saving money from taxpayers. There was someone here who said: "But this is insufficient." It's true! It's true what they said, it's insufficient! But we have a parliamentary group of eight Members, less than 4 % of the total, and if each parliamentary group brought here a measure of misburocratization, or if it did, proportionately, bring the same disburocratization work that we bring, today, instead of four measures, we would have 80 and the bureaucracy in this country would end. If all the parliamentary groups were to make the effort to put an end to these bureaucracys, the bureaucracy in this country would end in a year, but every time we bring this effort here it is devalued. They say people's hours don't matter at all, they spend hours filling papers, going... For you, being here 20 minutes to save people millions of hours is a job that's not worth it. For us, it's worth it! With regard to Mr Hugo Oliveira, I am grateful for the technical questions that he has brought and I think that they are perfectly valid in the matter of the disticulum. It is something that, in particular, could change, perfectly. In the matter of passports, most European countries have 10 years of validity. It's true! We could hear entities, in the process of specialty, to realize why in Portugal they have to be 5 years rather than 10 years, but for that there must be some good will to pass this, realizing that there are details, that will always exist, that can be discussed later in specialty. The same is true of the virtual complaint pages. Once again, you say that almost no company uses them, then perhaps another reason not to be paid. It is a useless bureaucracy that affects 0, 3 % of companies. Once again, I want to believe — and this discussion will not pass on television, it is not worth a vote — that are small things that make life easier for people, and I would like to believe that this is something that should unite us and not divide these biased resentments, because indeed saving people time, to the Public Administration, should be a common cause. We will continue to do so, because we do not give up the country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u42	So we move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 878 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Creates a national line for the prevention of suicide and self-harm, and 923 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Creating a suicide prevention line in the National Health Service as well as in the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 350 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national strategy for preventing rail suicide, 866 / XV / 1. ( CH) — For the prevention of young suicide, 867 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By preventing suicide in the security forces, and 907 / XV / 2. a (BE) — Conducting a new national epidemiological study on mental health. For the presentation of Bill No. 878 / XV / 1. a ( L ), I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u43	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Dear Citizens in the galleries: The subject we are going to talk about in this agenda, the first thing the Free do in Parliament, is a difficult matter. So what is usually done and what must be done, in responsibility, is to appeal to people who are or may be listening to us and who need help that connects to the lines that already exist—although incomplete and imperfect, as we will see—such as the SOS Voice Amiga or the SNS 24 line, to have the help they need in preventing suicide. But the problem here is precisely that this aid is not the one that should and should not be in time, because the lines that we have, which have been assured for several decades by volunteers, which we should welcome, do not work 24 hours a day and because the line that exists within the SNS 24 service is not dedicated and is difficult to access. Therefore, alerted by the petition « Line of support for the prevention of suicide in Portugal », whose petitioners today honor us with their presence and we greet—it is a citizen initiative that was formed by friends of someone to whom this aid did not come in time, helps what they sought and did not have—we felt that we should act with the greatest speed possible and with the support of the petitioners. It's just that here, really, every hour counts. We have the notion that the situation of suicide in Portugal, given the economic, post-pandemic and general instability that we are living in, is worsening. We therefore call for all Members of this House to approve this initiative and also for approval of the Block initiative, which, by means of drag, has added to the Free Agenda; and we call for the process in the specialty to be as soon as possible, because this is even those situations in which, as soon as we have a dedicated line, 24 hours a day, with professional support, as the Order of Psychologists has defended, that may have as a adjuvant some voluntary support and that is also integrated into the SNS (National Health Service), more lives can be saved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u44	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, you now have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first and, in fact, the only national epidemiological study on mental health was published in 2013, with data collected between 2008 and 2009, which means that these data are already about 15 years old. We need an update. This study, at the time, was quite important, because it allowed a characterization of reality, allowed the identification of problems and thus allowed to guide mental health policies. It identified, for example, that the estimated prevalence of occurrence of at least one psychiatric disorder during life was 42.7 %, much higher than that recorded in other Western European countries. At the time, this study also recorded a pattern of higher quantitative expression in the younger step, from 18 to 34 years old, with a prevalence of 50, 1% with at least a psychiatric disorder. In the case of access to care, only 18, 2 % of mild cases of disturbance received adequate care, which actually places Portugal below many other countries. In cases of moderate and higher severity, this percentage still rises to 35 % and 66 %. In other words, they are very worrying about access to mental health in Portugal. Finally, this study also detected a high consumption of psychopharmaceuticals in our country. If, at the time, these data were very important, we reached 2023 and it seems to us that it is of the greatest importance that this study can be updated, in particular by investigating aspects such as social determinants that affect mental health and that at the time it was not possible to be included in the study. But the doctors and researchers themselves who did so, at the time, indicated the need to place social determinants in this study. In fact, the pace of work, the rhythms of life are increasingly accelerated, so we realize that the theme of mental health, and well, is increasingly stigmatized and, therefore, it is important to have all the data as up-to-date as possible to guide mental health policies. This is a draft resolution, but we think it is very important to move forward to a new national study on this subject. But today we present another project of great relevance. In Portugal, official data point to three deaths per day resulting from self-sustaining behaviors. The Institute of Legal Medicine recorded in 2021 952 deaths due to suicide in our country and the INE (National Institute of Statistics) for that year noted a mortality rate for intentional self-provoked injuries of 9 per 11,000 inhabitants. And the truth is that these numbers may be undersized, since suicide, I know it, is an under-declared phenomenon. How is this mentioned in the report Let's talk about suicide? , from the Order of Psychologists, the number of attempted suicides may be 25 times higher than the actual number of suicides. So this alone, it seems to us, would be enough to alert us to the need to do more and do better. We therefore consider it essential to ensure responses to, quickly and expeditiously, help someone with suicidal thoughts or feelings. Thus, we propose the creation of the line of support and prevention of suicide, inserted in the National Health Service, particularly in the SNS 24 line, so that it can be linked with other responses, including the National Coordination of Mental Health Policies, but also with responses on the ground, whether emergency hospital responses or community mental health responses. Therefore, this project is based on prevention and support, a work that should be done based on professionals with adequate training, in conjunction with the other SNS responses. This may seem simple, but it is, in fact, extremely important for many people in our country, who often feel alone and abandoned, and it is our role not to make that happen. [[L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u46	To present the initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u47	Ex. Mr. President of all parliamentary committees except for the arrival, Mr. and Mr. Members: The World Suicide Prevention Day was celebrated last September 10. on this day, emphasis was placed on the need for collective action to address the problem and recalled the importance of caring for mental health and supporting the most vulnerable. According to the United Nations, there are risk factors that cause suicide behaviors: unemployment, abuse of various types, mental health disorders and difficulty in access to medical care. Suicide is also referred to by the UN as an urgent public health problem and its prevention must be a priority at national and global level because it is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Despite the gradual reduction in the number of cases in Portugal being aligned with the declining trend in Europe, our suicide rate is higher than that of any other European country. In 2021, the average of our country was 77 deaths per month, more than 2 per day, with the number of suicides of the male being significantly higher than that of the female. With regard to young people, suicide causes serious and complex concern around the world. It is a phenomenon with very diverse causes, the result of the interaction of multiple individual factors, family, social, economic and cultural. Young people are now subject to personal and social pressures and concerns that cause them anxiety and depression in such a high way that they end up seeing suicide as a solution to their anxieties. A recent study revealed that 95% of young people between the ages of 15 and 24 still live with their parents, 60% have a precarious working relationship and 25% are in poverty or social exclusion. at an age of questioning and doubt about their future, any additional pressure exerted on young people aggravates their personal problems and empowers the risk of suicidal thoughts. in this context, young people often resort to drugs prescribed to themselves or family members, in some cases, only to draw attention and, in other cases, there is even a suicidal ideation. in the last cases, almost half are recurrence and are followed in pedopsychiatry. The problem is that currently there are only 132 pediatricians in units of the National Health Service, missing at least 200 specialists to be able to respond to all these needs. For all this, we propose in this draft resolution a set of measures aimed at the effective prevention of young suicide, hoping that all other parliamentary groups will give a clear sign of support for these measures. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u48	For an intervention, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no health without mental health. In Portugal, it is estimated that one fifth of the population suffers from mental illness and that half of the population has, or will, a mental illness throughout life. This is a reality that has worsened during the pandemic, with a special impact on children and young people, and that does not yet have a timely and adequate response from the National Health Service. Worse: as long as the government identifies mental health as a priority, this is no more than propaganda. If this were not, for example, the new 10 Community mental health teams promised by the Government for 2023 would have been set up. Two months left to finish the year, and none of these teams were created.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u50	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u51	For the Liberal Initiative, mental health is a priority. For this reason, in the SUS Health, our Universal System of Access to Health — a proposal led by the majority of this Parliament — we foresee the creation of a national network of mental health care with the great objective of promoting the improvement of mental health of people and society in general, through the promotion of mental well-being and prevention, identification and treatment of mental illness and associated risks. During the discussion of the Government's proposed law on mental health law, the Liberal Initiative argued that this law did not present a densification on what should be an integrated and positive approach to mental health. in this sense, we proposed a set of proposals that could have contributed to a better law, but all were plunged by the Socialist Party: the same Socialist Party that has been in government for eight years; the same Socialist Party that ruled 21 of the last 28 years; the same Socialist Party that was unable to maintain the National Health Service and that made it in chaos in which it is found.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u52	Ah! That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u53	In mental health, this has a special impact. The evidence that the Government of the Socialist Party continues to fail in the approach to mental health, particularly in the prevention of suicide, is the discussion we are having here today again. It is therefore crucial for the Government to undertake an urgent lifting of all needs in the area of mental health and to take concrete measures in order to ensure adequate follow-up in the area of mental health to all those who need it. thus, because of the importance of the subject, but mainly because the government is unable to find solutions to the problems and needs that are now perfectly identified, we will vote in favour of all the initiatives under discussion today. The government may thus stop advertising and start acting once and for all. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u54	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anabela Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the parties Free, PAN, Block of Left and Arrival for the initiatives presented, which bring us to the discussion topics of extreme importance, suicide and mental health, especially recently remembered, on 10 September and 10 October, respectively, the World Suicide Prevention Day, representing a global commitment to focus attention on suicide prevention, and World Mental Health Day, representing an attempt to raise awareness of mental health as a universal right and the importance of widespread access to care, and to promote actions that promote and protect the mental health of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u57	Mental diseases are known to be important risk factors for suicidal behaviors, and about 80% to 90% of those who die from suicide have psychiatric disease. Thoughts about suicide are complex. The factors and causes that lead to suicide are multiple and there is no single approach that works for everyone. What is known is that there are factors and events of life, in addition to conditions related to mental health, which can make someone more vulnerable to suicide. If there is an area in which the government has had a clear bet, it is that of mental health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u59	An unprecedented reform and investment is under way in this area: a reform that places itself in proximity services, integration into the community, linkage with primary health care, placement of acute cases in general hospitals, deinstitutionalization of chronic patients and greater promotion of mental health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This reform also includes a legislative review of the Mental Health Act and a decree-law that came to reformulate the organization of local mental health services. At the level of human resources, 20 community mental health teams are already in full operation. The strengthening of the number of psychologists, psychiatrists and pediatricians is expressive. In 2018, for example, we had 983 psychologists working at the SNS and by the end of 2022 we had 1114 psychologists. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If it is true that the Socialist Party shares some of the concerns outlined in these initiatives, it is also true that it has taken the path towards meeting the needs in this area. Regarding suicide prevention lines, it should be noted that resources are being concentrated on the SNS 24 line, specifically on the SNS 24 psychological support line, a line available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, also in English, with support from psychologists and that has already responded to over 240 000 requests. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u60	In urgent situations, the call is transferred to INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ), which operates the appropriate means of relief. A microsite was created dedicated exclusively to mental health issues, with specific information and recommendations and highlighted for the prevention of suicide. The National Campaign for the Prevention of Suicide was set up, a national initiative that aims to change attitudes towards suicide and mental illness and to encourage the request for help of people at risk. A Network of Partners was created, consisting of entities with suicide prevention initiatives, with the National Coordination of Mental Health Policies to assume the leadership of this network. Trapped suicide on the railway line is one of the most lethal and violent methods of death and therefore deserves particular attention when it comes to preventing suicide. The Working Group on Harvest and Suicides was established, of the initiative of the Infrastructures of Portugal, with the aim of reducing the incidence of harvests and suicides on the national rail network. The theme is provided for in the national strategy for the prevention of suicide, as are also provided for in the themes of the prevention of young suicide and the security forces, with various projects and programmes for the prevention of suicide. Regarding the younger, it is to mention the increase in the number of psychologists in schools, the restructuring of the national network of emergency services of psychiatry and pedopsychiatry and also a new strategy for intervention in mental health in higher education. In conclusion, we understand that the proposal of the Left Block for the conduct of a national mental health study is of great importance, since Portugal is in the process of reforming mental health services, and can provide important information in terms of planning. In view of this, it is to recognise and praise the efforts, investment and sensitivity of the Government in this matter. We are confident of what is being done, although, obviously, we are also aware that the way is going and that there is still much to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u61	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Anabela Rodrigues has a request for clarification from Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative. You do not have time to answer, but I give the floor to Mrs Joana Cordeiro, in any case, to make her request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u62	Mr President, Mrs Anabela Rodrigues, my question is quite simple. I am only beginning to frame my question: once again, the Socialist Party comes to this debate, throws numbers on what they are doing, but they forget everything they are not doing. I asked, from above, of the rostrum, where were the 10 community mental health teams that were promised to 2023. No one's been raised! That's what the honourable Member should have come here to explain. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u63	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Guilherme Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of initiatives that address the reality of suicide and mental health, a reality that is highly worrying about its quantitative expression, the tremendous family dramatism and also its indisputable complexity and social impact. Every day, three people resolve to end life in Portugal a truly alarming number.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u65	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u66	According to the latest data available by INE in 2021, the suicide rate was 9 per 100 000 inhabitants, corresponding to 919 people. It is also estimated that in our country suicide is the second cause of death between 10 and 19 years of age. For this outcome, much contributes to mental suffering, caused by factors such as stress, social networks and, in recent years, the pandemic of covid-19, which caused damage to society and the lives of so many young people. In fact, gravity is greater when we bear in mind that in recent years suicide attempts have increased between us by about 30%. This is too serious a problem to continue to be lived in silence, because numbers are as violent as pain. However, this is a cause of death that can and should be avoided. We therefore have an obligation to do everything possible to prevent, inform, help and treat. In the overwhelming majority of cases, suicide results from a situation of severe mental illness or deep psychological suffering. They calculate specialists that the main risk factor for suicide is mental illness, which is the circumstance of more than 80% of the people who end their own lives. For the UN, the main risk factors that are correlated with suicidal behaviors are also unemployment, substance abuse, economic difficulties, social isolation and difficulties in access to medical care. [[PSD applause.]] Suicide is currently a public health problem in Portugal and its prevention must be a national design. Therefore, the State should provide the necessary resources to allow access to mental health care. But this is an area that cannot, nor should, be exclusive of the responsibility of health. Like what happens in the more developed countries, suicide prevention policies must be increasingly multisectoral, including education, work, sport, security, social solidarity, the community and the authorities. It is important that we are all aware and mobilized for this reality and, above all, available to help the other, which is so often ashamed to ask for the help you need. However, despite the many promises made, the Socialist Government has no positive results to present in the field of combating and preventing suicide. Just remember that, according to the latest official data from the Ministry of Health, on the transparency portal, the average waiting time for a general consultation of psychiatry, for example, at the District Hospital of Santarém, is 11 months. [[PSD applause.]] In Chaves and Portalegre hospitals, patients wait eight months for a consultation. For the specialty of psychiatry of childhood and adolescence, there are seven and a half months of waiting at the hospital of Loures, eight months at the hospital of Aveiro, nine months at the hospital of Santarém and more than a year at the hospital of Braga. I repeat : more than one year of waiting for a simple consultation of childhood and adolescence psychiatry, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u67	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u68	Unfortunately, this is the sad reality that should embarrass Mr. Minister of Health, but so yesterday we saw the urgent debate on the catastrophic state in which the National Health Service is located, there is no longer anything that can impress and embarrass Mr. Minister of Health. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will enable the initiatives under discussion today and I do - not necessarily because we agree with all the proposals contained in them, but because the country needs and deserves the signal that this Parliament is concerned about the mental health of the Portuguese and does not lower its arms in the fight against suicide prevention. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD presented, two years ago, a draft resolution, a commitment to the mental health of the new generations, which was approved and took the form of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 158 / 2021. However, the current government is reluctant to comply with what this Parliament has recommended, keeping investment in mental health in childhood and adolescence in absolute precariousness. We hope for a new government, which takes mental health seriously, because the Portuguese deserve it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u70	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate in particular Mr Rui Tavares on bringing up an important issue, as we have been discussing. Of course, we must take this into account from a public health point of view and also have an approach to what seems to me to be worthy of our attention, in particular the causes of suicide. First of all, I want to say that suicide is actually a public health problem. Obviously, we don't know who's going to kill himself, but we need to know and identify the causes. When we talk about the causes, we talk about the social, cultural, economic and even factors related to the age group. But we also talk about factors, in particular, mental illness. That must be our concern and that must be our intervention, particularly in prevention. Early and early diagnosis is, in fact, a problem that we identify, as well as effective treatment. Often, there is a risk situation, vulnerability, we know the most exposed age groups, but then there is no efficacy in both diagnosis and treatment. in this sense, it is important to perceive two categories, or two age groups, especially in young people, in adolescence. We must have this early diagnosis, with effective intervention. If we even want to prevent further suicide, it is in fact not only in adolescence that we should intervene, but also in the depressive disease of the elderly. Is it a very complex, multifactorial issue, particularly because it has to do with health issues, with issues of poverty, with lack of treatment — how many of our elderly people with treatment needs do not have access to their family doctor and to the health care they need? — and with a very important question, which has to do with loneliness. It is in this sense that the CFP believes that the best response is in fact strengthening the SNS. This is where the response has to be, especially in primary health care, diagnosing early and early, treating either in adolescence or the elderly. The response must also be in the fight against drug addiction and alcohol consumption—and this is a very important aspect, which has not yet been discussed, and which is also a determining factor—with effective combat measures, which have a great effect on the prevention of suicide. It has already been mentioned here, but we must also invest a lot in the pedagogy that it is possible to avoid suicide. in this sense, in the context of public health, summarizing our perspective, what is needed to do? Strengthen the National Health Service with an effective mental disease treatment and an early diagnosis. In conclusion, I just want to say the following: with regard to the proposal from the Left Block, which presents a proposal based on a study, we will say that this study was made with a drawing that we evaluate as incorrect. First of all, whoever does this study has to be prepared, from the point of view of psychology, and not just a mere investigator who will carry out an inquiry. from the point of view of mental health, the investigation must also be properly structured, not only with crosses of « yes » or « no ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u72	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u73	I conclude, Mr President, by asking that, by creating these conditions, this study be done effectively in the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u74	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very serious matter. I'm going to tell you about the prevention of suicide in the security forces. I heard recently Mrs Anabela Rodrigues of the Socialist Party saying that much is to be done at the level of mental health in Portugal. We fully agree. These are proposals like these, that arrive today brings to this plenary, that we have to approve and in which we have to put the ideology aside. It is a draft resolution with concrete measures to prevent suicide in the security forces, which have frightening numbers, numbers that should make us all think, in this House, about what we've been doing from 20 years to here. For 20 years, 165 professionals have committed suicide in the security forces: 80 PSP (PSP) agents and 85 GNR ( Republican National Guard) military personnel. By this year, another five have committed suicide. Therefore, numbers are increasing, increasing almost daily. And what does this house do? By ideology, he votes against the proposals of the Arrival. We must leave the ideologies aside, once and for all, and put the welfare of the citizens first. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We must also realize that suicide in the security forces is a complex process. It's not just an isolated act, because it doesn't happen just once in a while, but it happens a lot. And why? We need to reflect on why. Being a cop or a GNR agent is undoubtedly a risk profession. The risk allowance must be urgently increased. Orders are low and the career is unattractive. So we also need to increase security forces' orders. Then, the vast majority of the effectors are far from the areas of residence and also the family, and that is a fundamental factor. Solidarity—as has been said recently—is a fundamental factor in increasing suicides. We also have a lack of respect for the security forces in Portugal, a lack of respect for what the State and the Government continue to tolerate and do not prevent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u77	This is a great problem that has happened in our security forces in Portugal. The question that some men and women up there, in the galleries, certainly do, is the following: of what is it worth being police? I believe that when you are alone, at home, you often think about this. It is a profession that, at the moment, no one values, and which even despises, in Portugal. This is all that this majority and this government have to change. Also, including the degradation of working conditions. Then we have to mention something very important, which is the lack of psychological support. We could talk about security forces in general, but we are talking about security forces in particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u78	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u79	I will finish, Mr. President. What psychological support has this government given to the security forces? None, no psychological support! The State has failed and failed on a daily basis to the security forces and we will not let that happen. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u80	We can then move on to the conclusion of this item on the agenda, giving the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of this debate, in addition to thanking all the interventions we have just heard, without exception, I must make a call and note a collective obligation that we all have. The appeal is for those who are seeing and listening to us: in case of having suicidal ideas, in case they are at a moment of despair, seek help from the services that already exist, because that help can save your life and save those who love you from an indisputable suffering. But this call corresponds to an obligation, which is the obligation of all of us to do our utmost, and as soon as possible, so that this call has a practical translation. Many people ignore this, but the suicide prevention lines, those who are volunteers, do not work all day, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Therefore, in a desperate situation, which has no time to arrive, these lines may not give the hand to whom it needs, at a certain time. What exists in the SNS24 and that works, yes, permanently, is an option that arises only in fourth place of the SNS24 line. Therefore, supporting many of the reflections that have been made here on the SNS and on the security forces, knowing that we have a long way to do in all these aspects, what we need to do, for now, is a very simple thing, that is to create a national line dedicated to suicide prevention, which works 24 hours a day, every day, and that the number is known to everyone and disseminated by promotion campaigns, so that it is an easy number, so that it is a quick number for those who need to use the line. We can discuss, in a specialty which I hope will be very soon, some aspects of the implementation of this plan. We have the State budget here and we can, of course, equip the State with the financial resources to make this implementation, but one thing is certain — and I think we all respect that — that is that there is no time to lose. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to lose not in a debate or in another word that we can say here, but there is no time to lose to save our fellow citizens who may have their lives saved, who may have their families, friends and those who love them saved from an indispensable suffering.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u82	We therefore conclude our second item on the agenda. We now move on to point three, which has to do with the debate around Petition No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( ZERO—Sustainable Earth System Association) — By removing the total asbestos of public schools, together with the Bill No. 913 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — For efficient and safe removal of asbestos in public infrastructures and with Resolution Projects No 688 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a strategy for the removal of all asbestos in schools and the reassessment of schools already intervened, 702 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By raising and removing all asbestos present in educational establishments, 863 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Assessment of asbestos removal program in public schools and planning of a new stage of intervention, 888 / XV / 2. a ( IL) — Completion of the school recovery/rehabilitation programme, 902 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends the Government to update the school asbestos removal programme, 909 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By removing asbestos from school equipment and 916 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue its efforts to remove asbestos present in educational establishments. There are several initiatives and, therefore, we will give the floor, first and foremost, to the parliamentary groups that have presented them. In the meantime, I ask you and the ladies. Members create some conditions for silence and stability in the House so that we can start this debate on point three of our agenda. [[Pause.]] I then give the floor to Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also welcoming the representatives of the subscribers of the petition for the total removal of asbestos in public schools, the association ZERO, the Movement of Schools Without Asbestos ( MESA ) and the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) : The Arrival Party supports this civic initiative with the presentation of a bill itself, Bill No. 913 / XV / 2. a (CH) — For efficient and safe removal of asbestos in public infrastructure. The petitioners ask, and I quote, ‘that the necessary measures be taken to...’ — and I stress — ‘... impose on the Government’. I repeat: 'imposed the government'. We welcome Parliament's consensual interest in dealing with the problem, as all parties submit proposals, but the other political parties submit draft resolutions when a draft resolution is limited to making recommendations to the Government. Only the party arrives presents a bill. The law is an imposition, it's not just a recommendation. Asbestos is a fatal material for humans and the problem persists in public buildings such as hospitals, schools, military infrastructures and also security forces infrastructures. There is no excuse for the long inertia of the government. Since 2011 the law has imposed the solution to the problem. We are in 2023 ; it is easy to impose everything and anything else on society, ordinary citizens, but when the State has an obligation to set an example in the enforcement of the law—in case, in the name of public health—the political universe becomes a shield to protect the state's inertia: it recommends, forgives, tolerates and facilitates. Tolerating the State's abusive power over society is to be complicit in bad governance. We support the draft resolutions of all other political parties today under discussion, but it is the effective imposition of the law that leads to the abandonment of wrong practices. There's a stone sentence from Max Weber that should get us to meditate. I quote the phrase: « In general, the final result of political action lies in an absolutely inappropriate relationship and often even paradoxical to its original meaning». One thing is the intentions and actions of the rulers, another thing, very different, are the results of these actions and intentions in the medium and long term. The Socialist Party represents, in Portugal, the longest and most serious dissonance between one end and the other. I note that 2005 was the year of the turn in the use of asbestos, as Decree-Law No 101/2005 prohibited its use. In 2011 Law No 2 came to impose, and I quote again: « procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibres... » — and I underline what follows — «... still present in public buildings, facilities and equipment». This means that the law of 2011 assumed that asbestos was being extinguished. In the long period between 2005 and 2023, the issue has not yet been resolved and the Socialist Party, the PS, is already in its second absolute majority. The Socialist Party has, in this period, 14 years of government. The PS bench takes advantage of parliamentary culture from tolerance to inertia and also today makes a few recommendations to its government to speed up the resolution of the process of removal of asbestos. No more empty speech politics and no more laws that fail. I would like to ask all parliamentary committees to assess the importance of supporting...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u84	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u85	I conclude now, Mr President. I call on all parliamentary banks to assess the importance of supporting the only bill under discussion, that of the Party. Our project is not against any other political party, it is only in defense of the public health of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u86	To present your initiative, Mr Rui Tavares now speaks. [[Pause.]] Mr Rui Tavares is not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u87	I want to see if this is happening in the Polygraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u88	The man also has the right to go to the bathroom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u89	There's no problem, we're moving on to another Member. When Mr Rui Tavares comes, I will give him the floor. Then, now, to present the Resolution Project No. 863 / XV / 1. a, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor of Mrs Cláudia André, who is in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD welcomes the ZERO Association, the Asbestos-free School Movement and FenPROF, as promoters of the petition that calls for the total removal of asbestos in public schools, signed by 5345 petitioners, to whom we also greet. This petition, today under discussion, considers that the collection of materials containing asbestos in several buildings of public schools, was carried out in a very incomplete way, because there are other materials containing asbestos and that were not considered, both in the schools already intervened, and in those still waiting for intervention, and may thus be endangering the health of workers and users of those buildings. Despite the danger that this material represents, the entire process of removal of asbestos in public schools is in the secret of the gods, not knowing any updated evaluation of the presence and removal of all materials containing asbestos, nor is it known, any timing for the execution of future interventions for the removal of these materials in their schools. Mrs. Members, we are at the beginning of a school year, with attention focused on the mismanagement of human resources by the Ministry of Education, but at the moment we must also mobilize in favour of conditions that guarantee environmental security and public health in all schools in the country for the protection of students, teachers and non-teachers. [[PSD applause.]] For this to happen, it is necessary to solve problems in the past and ensure that the process of removal of asbestos is carried out in a complete, effective and transparent manner. Although the Asbestos Removal Programme has positive aspects to point out, such as the investment made, it questions what will happen to the 280 schools that are still about to intervene. For the PSD, it is essential to make a balance sheet of what was executed and what was to be achieved in order to identify the needs of new interventions and consider, in planning, a future phase for the Programme. And it is precisely at this point that the Ministry of Education fails its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u92	over four years, the associations promoting this petition requested information from administration and guardianship, not getting answers, complaining of the lack of transparency of the entire process. The PSD also requested elements, concrete data, lists of interventions, clarifications on issues that were of concern to us and, at great cost, the government sent out a document that neither answers nor certainties on the issues we have raised, ignoring the obligations it has before this Parliament. We have a Ministry of Education that responds to any questions you want, flees to the questions of Members and still hides itself from the citizens, whose fears devalue and demeanor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u93	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u95	It is with a logic of transparency and accountability that, before the entire educational community, the PSD recommends to the Government, through this draft resolution, that it promote the evaluation of the Asbestos Removal Program in public schools, making the balance sheet of what was executed and what was to be realized, and that it disseminate the detailed results of the Asbestos Removal Program and promote its extensive and transparent discussion with society and school communities. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD also wants, and requires, the Government to prepare a second phase of the Asbestos Removal Programme, creating conditions for financing new interventions according to the identified needs. This is a subject of the greatest importance, which has attracted the attention of all parties, whose initiatives, from left to right, are quite converging to one another, with the exception of the Socialist Party's initiative, which narrowly limits the recommendation to a continuity of the removal of fibroc coverage. We know it's insufficient. Let us hope that this is not the pretext for undermining the petition and rejecting the seven initiatives of the parties represented here, imposing and approving only their resolution, thus not reflecting the concerns expressed here today in this petition. We need safer schools, we need healthier and more sustainable schools, removing the risks that asbestos can generate with our students and with all those who attend school buildings. We therefore call for the approval of our initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u96	Now, yes, to present the Resolution Project No. 688 / XV / 1. a, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u97	Mr. President: I apologize for not being present when you called me recently. For penance, I saved a few seconds talking directly about my place. Since 2005 asbestos has been banned, asbestos construction is banned in Portugal, but it happens that asbestos has been very popular, much used in the construction throughout the post-war period, throughout Europe, and also in Portugal, increasingly in the 1970s and 1980s. So there are a lot of buildings — and we ignore the many — that still contain asbestos. In 2020, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Territorial Cohesion issued an order listing of schools, but we knew that there were coverages consisting of fibrosis plates, which contain asbestos. Now there is a lack of identification and intervention in all other structures—not only covering plates; there are floors, pipes, dilating joints and many others that contain this potentially carcinogenic material. There is, in fact, an advanced petition by ZERO, the Asbestos-free School Movement and the FenPROF, which calls for the identification of these elements and their removal. Therefore, the draft resolution that we present here, in this debate, and which is added to other draft resolutions — all of them very valid, because this is a very important problem — which are presented here today, focuses on the removal of asbestos used in schools, even in schools that have already been involved in their coverage, but which, moreover, need to identify all the other points where asbestos is used. I'm done, with a conclusion. We in Portugal often have the habit of legislating to pick the point and to think that from the moment something is in the law, the problem is solved. And we all know that our country, if it immediately became to have, like magic, implemented the things we put into the laws, would be a wonderful country. Then it is necessary to comply with the law,... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... we must apply it in practice, we must implement it and that is what we call, through our support not only to this draft resolution for the removal of asbestos in schools, but also to other projects presented in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u98	Where were you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u99	To present the Resolution Project No 888 / XV / 2. a, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Compliance in particular with all petitioners, both in the associations and in the persons involved in the petition, who are in quite an expressive number. Today's debate effectively develops around the theme of removal of asbestos, an obviously important issue. It is too obvious the need to remove this material, either in schools or in buildings in general. The number of times, even, that has already been mentioned in this plenary, is a sign of two points: not only of its importance, but also of the manifest inability that has had to solve this problem. It has also been mentioned here — and I want to strengthen — the lack of follow-up and implementation of the plans. It's just that one thing is to promise, it's to plan, it's to budget; another thing is to execute. In this case, we have included the need for intervention on a broader subject in schools, not only in the important — and that we will obviously follow the other legislative initiatives — removal of asbestos, but also in other types of interventions that are needed in schools. We are talking about schools where it rains, where it does greenhouse effect, where there are no ramps, where there are no necessary infrastructures, without the quality necessary for a healthy and pleasant experience, promoter of learning and also of socialization. We therefore present in our draft resolution the request for compliance and transparency of the School Rehabilitation/Rehabilitation Program. This need, and even urgency, is recognised by the Government itself, which signed a sectoral commitment agreement with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities on 22 July 2022, in which it undertook to carry out, by 2030, recovery, rehabilitation and expansion interventions in 451 schools, considering establishments to need intervention — repair — with priority, urgent or very urgent classification. I repeat: priority, urgent or very urgent, until 2030. But, as is the government's tradition, the promise is made with pump and circumstance and then time passes without anything happening. Let's get some history. The agreement is signed in July, reaches the end of 2022 without advances and starts 2023 without any news. In February 2023, the Liberal Initiative presented an initiative, calling for compliance with this program, which was widely accepted, except for PS. We wanted, like now, transparency and information. We want the implementation of the plan to be fulfilled, that there is scrutiny, that the population, in particular the school community and the municipalities, have knowledge. But this time, it's over! — something has happened: a year since the signing of the agreement, the Government has announced the signing of another agreement, a new agreement. And it was no longer enough the feeling of a second opening, as — let us see — the deadline extended to 2033. That is to say, the new agreement, ignored in the public discourse—because there was already another one that was not met—is now postponed to 2033 ; a postponement of what, we remember, was urgent, very urgent or priority. The discourse on the valorization of public school is in the reality of government devaluation, including such a basic element as intervention in schools, which admits to being urgent. Therefore, we present this project, so that, under decentralization and intervention in schools, there is commitment and public information about the deadlines, stages and implementation, in a transparent way, so that the authorities and the school community can know. It's not enough to announce. The Government has failed in its mission, budgetary allocation, priorityisation, and now, when it has finally promised, it is unable to fulfil the promises made in a timely manner and to fulfil the responsibilities of the decentralization agreement. The government is failing students, teachers, non-teachers, in the recovery of learning and also in the building itself. The government is failing in public school and in education policy. The public school's appreciation discourse is based on the government's devaluation policy. After all, we already have tech kits without internet, daycare without breaks, classes without teachers, even works without construction were missing. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u101	To present the Resolution Project No 902 / XV / 2. Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u102	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate ZERO, the Asbestos-free School Movement and FenPROF. We made a long journey together and together, we took part in many initiatives, visited many schools, talked to many people in the school community. And this petition draws attention to a problem that we identified from the outset when we were still fighting for a program that removed the fibrosis plates, especially from school coverage. Most of the schools that existed in Portugal, the school where I studied, the school where many of us studied, had fibrosis coverage and, at that time, we immediately identified that there was a problem, which was the lack of other materials that used the known material, asbestos. Asbestos was used massively, not only in Portugal, but in many countries, in everyday objects: in toasters, stoves, other appliances, in cinema curtains, in theaters, in floors, in pipes, in roofs of electronic wires, and so many other materials. Asbestos is indeed an extraordinary material because of its capabilities and characteristics, but it has a small huge problem, which is to be highly dangerous to human health, potentially carcinogenic. In addition, it has a particularity: neither the World Health Organization knows below what values is that exposure to asbestos is not harmful to health. That is, measurements are virtually incapable of resting people who are subject to asbestos, because even very low levels of asbestos presence can be harmful. And this is particularly serious, which makes the presence of fibrosis materials transform into total anxiety and instability among school communities, especially the communities that have cases of long-exposed employees or teachers who later develop oncological diseases, and we also know many of these cases. This creates an enormous anxiety in these communities because they do not know if they are exposed to something that can potentially kill them. What ZERO, the Asbestos-free School Movement and FenPROF propose is that there be a survey of these other materials that do not cover them and that there also be a removal program for these materials. As has already been said, the problem with asbestos is a problem of action, it is not a problem of knowledge, it is not a problem of consciousness, it is not even a problem of law. It is a problem of action, monitoring action and executive action to remove materials that are potentially dangerous. What the Left Block recommends to the Government is exactly that: that is, to evaluate the National Programme for the Removal of the Asbestos of Schools; that is, to do the lifting of materials present in school buildings beyond the roofs and to update this program, strengthening of itself, of course, with funds to include other materials. The law exists, it's done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u103	To present the CFP initiative, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP begins by welcoming the signatories — the Asbestos-free School Movement, the ZERO Association and the FENPROF — of the petition here under discussion, which drags in particular draft resolution No 909/XV/2. a, from the PCP. The CFP project has two unequivocal purposes: that the Government should proceed directly to the completion of the process of removal of asbestos from all primary schools of 2. o is 3. the cycle and secondary education, and that the government assumes total funding — we stress 'total' — necessary to this operation. The definitive and safe removal of the asbestos of educational establishments, for school communities and workers, is a requirement that the government cannot steal. The case of asbestos, with serious threats to health and the environment, is very serious. It also covers a very large number of buildings owned by the State itself, no less than 1463 today, in a total of 3086 occurrences. of these, 833 are priority 1, i.e. they impose the immediate removal of this material. The case advises a responsible look at reality, especially with regard to schools. According to the last listing by the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance of buildings containing asbestos, of the already mentioned total of 1463 buildings of the State, considered at the end of the first half of this year, 281 are within the scope of the Ministry of Education. These 281 buildings correspond to 434 occurrences, i.e. where there are elements with asbestos, which can be both in a gymnostic pavilion and in a classroom block, for example. Of these, 19 are priority 1, let's remember, immediate removal or substitution of asbestos; 11 priority 2, i.e. imposing encapsulation of this material; and 404 priority 3, i.e. ensuring at least their monitoring. These data are not statistical abstraction. They correspond to geography, localities, specific schools: from the basic António Correia de Oliveira, in Esponende, to the basic and secondary José Relvas, in Alpiarça, passing through the basic Commander Angelo Azevedo, in Oliveira de Azemés, or by the secondary of Barcelinhos, and we could go through there only to talk about priority 1 establishments. But what's awful, sirs. Members, it is that in the whole list concerning the Ministry of Education there is only one, it is well noted, only one application to the Rehabilitation and Heritage Fund. This is a real estate site in Alvalade Square, numbers 12 and 13, in Lisbon, no less than the Directorate-General for School Establishments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u105	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u106	Dispatch No. 6573 -A / 2020, of the Ministry of Education and Cohesion of the Territory, identified 580 schools for removal of asbestos with a total investment of EUR 60 million, financed 100 % by the State using Community funds, which, however, resulted in a reduction in the number of applications.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u107	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u108	I'm really gonna finish it. On 31 June at least 281 applications continued to intervene, confirming and stressing the deresponsibility of the Government. It is good to remember: it was already more than 12 years ago that Law No. 2 / 2011 was published, which provides for the removal of asbestos in public buildings, facilities and equipment. The process is far from its conclusion and the government must be held responsible for it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u109	To present the last initiative accompanying this petition, Mrs Raquel Ferreira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the petitioners of the petition « For the total removal of the asbestos of public schools », whose first petitioner is the ZERO Association, as well as to greet FENPROF, the Asbestos-free School Movement and also the parliamentary groups which also presented initiatives on the same subject and the same object. Asbestos, due to its distinct characteristics, was widely used in the construction industry. Today we know that this material is largely harmful to public health and hence its prohibition has occurred since 2005, through Decree-Law No 101 / 2005 of 23 June. The Socialist Party has been committed to combating the problem of asbestos and has made a path with several legislative measures, since Law No. 2 / 2011, approved unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic on 9 February, which established procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibers still present in buildings, facilities and public equipment. It can also be seen that the XXI Constitutional Government has set up a working group to update and complete the list of materials containing asbestos in buildings and facilities, as well as adequate waste management. I also refer to the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 97 / 2017. Continuing this path of a future free of asbestos, in close collaboration with the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), representative workers' organizations and employers' associations, a plan is drawn up in 2018 to identify the companies whose buildings, facilities and equipment contain materials with asbestos. This joint effort resulted in the approval of Law No 63 / 2018, of 10 October. It should be noted that the Government has always worked to comply with the recommendations issued by the Assembly of the Republic in 2016, 2019, 2020, concerning the identification of asbestos removal in buildings, installations and equipment where public services are provided. Concern about the health and safety of people, particularly in regard to the presence of asbestos in schools, has been a priority of the Government. in this follow-up, I would like to say that in the 2014 to 2020 cycle, priority was given to the removal of asbestos materials in their composition in schools. However, we know that there is still a way to go and hence the Socialist Party has presented the Resolution Project No. 916 / XV / 2. the, which recommends that the Government continue its efforts to remove asbestos present in educational establishments. The Socialist Party's efforts and political commitment to combat the problem of asbestos are recognized. This importance has been reflected in the way the programming of Community funds has been done in recent years. Reflecting this, it was the huge number of schools that have been re-qualified in recent years, and paying attention to the issue of the environment, there is greater eligibility for these projects. Local power has been, and could not fail to mention, an extraordinary partner in the continuation of this asbestos removal work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u111	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u112	I would also like to say that PT 2030 also has a special focus on the issue of schools and thus the replacement of asbestos. The PS Parliamentary Group will be paying attention to this subject and how we should continue this mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u113	We are now moving to the stage of intervention. The Bureau only records the registration of Mrs Palmira Maciel. If so, I shall give you the floor immediately, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners and the authors of these initiatives, as it is well known that everyone is concerned with the safety and health of people, particularly with regard to the presence of asbestos in schools and other public buildings. Indeed, as has already been said, since 2005 it is a government concern to reduce the harmful effects on human health and the environment associated with the use of asbestos. in this sense, and in addition to the exercise of diagnosis and identification of public schools where there was still the presence of coverage consisting of asbestos fibrocination plates, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Ministry of Education, in close collaboration with the Directorate-General of School Establishments, with the committees of coordination and regional development, with the intermunicipal entities and with the municipalities, whose role, as has already been said, is extremely important in this area, has continued with the requalification of school equipment. from the Asbestos Removal Program, launched in 2020, we can make a positive assessment, noting that of the 535 schools identified for intervention 487 submitted applications and 479 schools were approved in 146 municipalities. All those schools will be completed, or practically completed, and therefore free of asbestos. With the implementation of the 2nd School Recovery/Rehabilitation Program. o is 3. the cycles and secondary, within the framework of the sectoral agreement and commitment between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities for decentralization of competences in the area of health and education, will be financed through the funds of PT 2030, PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), to the extent of the nearest schools, which includes interventions for recovery, rehabilitation and expansion of school buildings, including measures to improve energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings. It should be noted that this programme favours deep and integrated interventions in the building, which will certainly contribute to the eradication of asbestos still existing in the school park. Therefore, the compromise already demonstrated in the resolution of this problem remains. And, therefore, the Socialist Party presented, as has already been said here, its draft resolution to continue to do and do more: safer and more sustainable schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u115	We therefore close our third item on the agenda. We will now move to the fourth point of the same, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 37 / XV / 1. a ( Eduardo Bernardino et al.) — Nurses — By the right of access to the status of high-risk profession and rapid wear, in general, with the Bills Nos 790 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recognizes to nurses the status of rapid wear and the right to early retirement by amending Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May and IRS Code 908 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Creating a status of risk and penosity for health professionals, 915 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recognizes the profession of nurse as a rapid wear and allows the anticipation of the retirement age for 55 years, and the Resolution Projects Nos. 895 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government define the general legal framework for the rapid wear and tear professions and their regulations and 897 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses. Let's start by giving the floor to the parliamentary groups that have legislative initiatives and start with the Left Block, specifically by Mrs Isabel Pires. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, we want to greet the petitioners for a petition with more than 31 000 signatures, which shows the importance and concern for this subject. One of the most important and fundamental parts of the SNS is, in fact, its professionals, from the operational assistant to the doctor, going through nurses, senior technicians and all the other professionals who compose and form the National Health Service. But to recognize this importance, in fact, there are not enough expressions of recognition, words of gratitude, palms to their actions. These manifestations are important, but it is necessary to go further and it is from this further that it deals with this specific petition about nurses. In fact, it would no longer be bad for us to have a government and a ministry that would seriously negotiate with its professionals, but that is not really what we have. What we have is a government and a ministry that is entering into negotiations without even trying to get close to the fair demands of the various health professionals. This is important because, in order for the National Health Service to function and health care to be permanently available, health professionals have to work on shifts and have to do many extra hours and often have to abdicate holidays, have to give up rest and are therefore exposed to added risks. In fact, health professionals perform complex functions that require a lot from the emotional, psychological, physical point of view, and this requirement is aggravated by the shortage of professionals in many services as well. Proof of this enormous fact of health professionals is, for example, the volume of extra hours worked in our country. And, therefore, all of us, I believe, recognize the importance and importance of health professionals, particularly nurses. But, in fact, practical recognition is lacking, with political measures that enhance its role in society, improve its working conditions and improve its working conditions in terms of rights, careers and wages. That is why the Bloc proposes today the recognition of the penosity and the risk associated with health professions and, consequently, we propose the translation of this recognition into compensatory measures provided for in a specific statute. These measures should include, among others, a remuneration supplement, mechanisms for faster career progression, the increase of rest days for working years, the reduction of weekly workload for working years and the anticipation of the retirement age without penalty. We have had many discussions about the professionals of the National Health Service, their importance, their resilience, but we cannot continue to have these debates without having very concrete proposals for the recognition not only of the penosity, the requirement, the risk of these professions, as is that of nurses, but then we have the fair recognition and negotiation of these supplements, this payment due to these professions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u117	To present the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u118	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Petitioners: The Portuguese do not forget the daily effort and commitment of our nurses, who are every day on the front line of a war, a war called National Health Service. Just look at many of the emergency services, which are authentic campaign hospitals. The working conditions, insecurity and disregard for political power by workers in the area of health of the SNS are a real attack on the dignity of workers, patients and institutions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] These facts justify more than just petition that we are discussing today. For the reasons outlined above and, above all, for the dedication of all nurses to patients in these dramatic circumstances, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u120	You weren't our heroes only during the covid-19 pandemic. You are our heroes, today and always. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Without your surrender of body and soul to the Portuguese and to the SNS, every citizen's journey to a health unit would be an even greater hell. You are the example that all politicians should follow in what is to serve the public cause. If this House were to follow your example, the laws in Portugal would be much better, because there would be no antidemocratic red lines, no sanitary circles, totalitarian ones, to our parliamentary group. And so this House would have already approved several proposals from the Arrival presented here, and plunged by the Socialist Party, which would make the lives of the Portuguese easier, particularly the lives of nurses. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today, the Arrival presents in this Chamber the Bill No. 915 / XV / 2. a, which recognizes the profession of nurse as a rapid wear, which allows for anticipation of the retirement age for 55 years. I hope that this proposal we are discussing will be approved, because its rejection will be a mistake, a huge injustice and the evident demonstration that the palms and the compliments to nurses during the pandemic were a huge hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u122	A rejection that more than 10 million Portuguese will not understand, especially the nurses and their family members and, more sincerely, the nearly 31 000 petitioners. Mrs. Members in Portugal today the legal age to require reform without any kind of penalty is 66 years and 7 months. However, social security establishes some special schemes in anticipation of the retirement age to professions that expose workers to the exercise of certain functions and activities, to factors of great physical, psychological and emotional wear, which, in this case, put their physical integrity and that of patients at risk. Nurses deserve this recognition that only the political evil of the socialist ideological blindness does not want to recognize. Moreover, it states that in addition to all these factors that contribute to the wear of nurses, the fact that they are, the professionals, who suffer most physical and verbal aggression during their provision of service is added. More than 60 % of these professionals have already been physically assaulted — I repeat, more than 60 %, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore essential that measures be established that recognize the rapid wear and high risk inherent in the profession of nurse, ensuring a special regime of anticipation of the old age pension for these professionals, measures that are essential for the health system and for the well-being of the population. The arrival does not give up and will always be with nurses, doctors, diagnostic technicians, assistants and security, who daily provide true public service to the common citizen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, assigning the status of rapid wear to nurses is the most elementary justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u123	To present the initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u124	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. and Mr. Members : We return to the subject of the rapid wear professions and, once again, by a citizen initiative through Petition No 37 / XV / 1. a, which led to the withdrawal of a set of legislative initiatives including the initiative announced by the PSD. Mr President, I will divide my speech into two stages. The first, of course, to greet the 32 000 subscribers, the nurses, who, in the exercise of a right of citizenship, bring back to the discussion a topic of greater relevance to the profession of nurse, which is also placed on a set of many other professions for which the PSD is attentive and presents the legislative initiative that I will further detail. Allow me, moreover, to address the nurses and all health professionals, doctors, health technicians, all without exception, a word of encouragement for your resilience, commitment, effort and dedication to the National Health Service,... [[PSD applause.]] ... not only in such a complicated period as that of the covid-19 pandemic, but also today, in the face of the chaos in which the various hospitals of the National Health Service are located. Yesterday we had an urgent debate, scheduled by the PSD, about the serious crisis that the National Health Service is going through. With regard to the petition and initiative submitted by the PSD, it should be noted that the initiative calls on the Government and the Socialist Party to do what they committed in 2020 more than three years ago, to study the rapidly worn-out professions. We all know that rapid wear is a characteristic inherent to some professions and stems from their specificities, namely from shift rotation to night work, stress, associated with one profession rather than another. There are currently several professions which are subject by their specificities to special schemes already enshrined in own diplomas, such as wood borders, air traffic controllers, classical or contemporary dance professions, sports practitioners and many others. It should be noted that, in recent years, several requests have also reached Parliament through petitions for the consideration of new professions as rapid wear professions in the areas of health, as I have already mentioned, of nurses, today under discussion, but also of civil protection, transport and aviation, police agencies, shift workers, among others. The Social Democratic Party believes that it is necessary to lay down the exact rules for the definition of standards of rapidly worn-out professions, thus ensuring justice and equity in the qualification of the various professions. For the PSD, all requests deserve serious and rigorous evaluation in order to avoid situations that generate injustice or duality of criteria. Even in March 2023, the Social Democratic Party presented an initiative, which the Socialist Party decided to chumbar, and this initiative already recommended to the Government a study to define the criteria of the rapidly worn-out professions. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, it is important to remember this House that the Socialist Party at the time voted against this initiative, justifying this vote against the presentation of a study by the end of the year. We are in October, almost at the end of the year, and little or nothing has been heard in this study. We don't know who the people are doing it, we don't know what phase it is and we also don't know if this study is really going to be presented until the end of this year. And I'm speaking, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, because in the State Budget for 2024 — I have already examined the document — there is no single word to remind nurses, there is no word about the rapid wear of professions. It is at least strange this absence of references, taking into account the fact that the study is under preparation and that in other areas they report that they are conducting studies. Why don't they make any reference in this area? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Nelson Brito.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD advocates a scientific, multidisciplinary and impartial study that analyses, identifies and bases the criteria to be defined so as to consider that a profession can be framed, or not, in rapid wear. On the basis of this study, the general legal framework of these professions and their regulations should be defined. Therefore, the PSD proposes to the Government to present the findings of the study on the rapid wear professions, to define the legal framework of the rapid wear professions, to define the criteria for awarding the qualification of rapid wear professions and to identify an exemplary list of such professions and to regulate their framework. And, to conclude, it matters, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not the Socialist Party is available to enter this debate and hold a serious discussion on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u125	To present the initiative of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate some 32 000 petitioners who have come to request the Assembly of the Republic to recognize the right of nurses to access to high-risk and high-risk work. It is in this sense that the PCP also brings here a draft resolution, which aims to define and regulate a specific employment and retirement regime for nurses. The PCP recognizes that nurses, due to the characteristics of their functions, their competences and working conditions, the pressure they are subject to and the stress they often face, have associated to the profession a penosity and a risk that matters that they are properly recognized. In fact, we understand that, in the medium and long term, these effects are very negative on the physical and mental health of nurses. We believe that the stress and pressure to which they are subject, increased by physical and emotional wear, are entirely related to their working conditions. It is in this sense that if we recognize it — and we already have evidence that it has already been recognised, even by previous legislation that has been repealed — it is important to do everything to minimize, from the outset, the risk of the penosity of the nursing profession. It has to be a reality, particularly with regard to working hours, safety, occupational health or occupational risk prevention, in order to ensure the provision of quality health care, and it is also important to improve the conditions for nurses' retirement. We therefore present this draft resolution, which should be articulated with workers' representative organisations. The government must give a space for this negotiation, find necessary and real responses to the legitimate demands of nurses, defining and regulating the specific retirement pension scheme for these professionals, without penalty. in this sense, we present this draft resolution. We understand that the nurses' struggle is fair and therefore they can count on the PCP to take this fight forward. I said. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u127	We now move on to the interventions, the first of which is the parliamentary group of the Liberal Initiative. Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, in particular, with the 32 000 petitioners, a number that is expressive in an extraordinary and exemplary exercise of citizenship. Let's start with the health situation. Today we have had the publication of the Statutes of the Executive Directorate of the SNS, which at the very date of publication are already late and are not free of controversy. We still had a debate here yesterday about health, with nothing conclusive, and for more than a year the Liberal Initiative speaks of the « SOS SNS », and so on. We passed from a health ministry to a disease ministry, that is, to a situation in a ministry to manage urgency and emergency. Even recently, Global Health was talking about this, and nurses are obviously not an exception to this situation. On the professions of rapid wear, we have been receiving requests in the form of petitions, hearings and other forms of consideration of the professions of quick wear. We have already discussed this issue here in plenary and the Liberal Initiative maintains its position: many of the reasons and arguments are acceptable. Everyone deserves a serious and rigorous assessment. It is important to ensure that action and legislation do not create, themselves, injustices or duality of criteria. In a previous debate, it was mentioned by the socialist board that a cross-sectional study was being conducted. I take this opportunity to announce that the Liberal Initiative will give rise to a question to obtain a thorough clarification from the Government of the outcome of this working group. At present, the Labour Code does not provide for any definition on the profession of rapid wear and is, yes, I need to work on these criteria. If there is an ongoing work, it must be known, for the work of the parliamentary groups, for the committee, in particular, and, above all, for the thousands of professionals who are covered by this topic. We believe that it is necessary to define the legal framework, the criteria, the implications and then to move forward with proper regulations. So again, we will be consistent with the vote in favour of the initiatives on the review of the rapidly worn-out professions that want to meet these criteria and we will abstain from the rest, not on the basis of a concrete assessment of the profession itself, but on methodology. But this petition is addressed in particular to nurses and, therefore, I want to take advantage of the time to talk about this noble as often neglected profession. The petition itself recalls the role of nurses in the pandemic and the fact that it is a profession with high impact and relevance. I would say that this impact was not specific to the pandemic, only became more visible the role of nurses during the pandemic. We have mentioned that Portugal is a country with low wage attractiveness at European level, but today it is important to put numbers in the case of nurses. Nurses in Portugal have an income similar to average remuneration in the country, while in most European countries, the income of these professionals is higher than the average remuneration in the country. For example, in Spain, nurses earn on average more than 50% of the country's average. And if we consider fit to purchasing power, Portugal is 3. the European country, from the end, where the average gross remuneration of nurses is lower. I repeat, it's already adjusted to purchasing power. One final note, in terms of numbers related to emigration: in 2022, the 1100 applications for declarations for emigration purposes were exceeded by the Order of the Nurses. Since 2015, more than 15 000 emigration statements have been issued. And in a debate in a nursing school in Porto, including with some Members of other parties, it was said that about 50 % equalized emigration at the end of the course.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u129	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u130	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the portraits we have had, including in hearings in the Health Committee, have expressive data on the reality under pressure with which nurses are less attractive to the profession, of abandonment, of states of exhaustion. These are symptoms of rapid wear, of system deploitation, and we are watching, with nurses, another part of the health system that is destructed or in destruction. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS Deputy Protests Susana Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u131	The second intervention on this point is the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mrs Ana Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start with a compliment to the 31 875 petitioners No 37 / XV / 1. a, having as first subscriber Eduardo Bernardino, under the theme « Nurses- For the right of access to the status of high-risk and rapid wear and tear ». This petition requires that the Assembly of the Republic legislate urgently, in order that, to the profession of nurse, the official status of the profession of rapid wear and the consequent benefit of risk be attributed. The question of rapid wear occupations has already been discussed several times in this House. In accordance with the interventions submitted on the subject, I would like to point out again: by order of the Secretary of State for Labour and the Secretary of State for Social Security, a working group was established for the study of the professions of rapid wear, their characteristics and ways of mitigating penosity and risks, with the task of presenting to the member of the Government responsible for the area of work and social security until 31 December 2023, a final report with contributions and recommendations on the subject. The working group consists of representatives of the following services: Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations, to whom coordination is entrusted ; Labour Conditions Authority; Employment and Vocational Training Institute; Institute for Social Security ; Directorate-General for Social Security ; and Directorate-General for Health. This group aims to: systematization of available information, legal framework and characterization of rapid wear professions; reflection, legislation and good international and national practices in this field; identification of priority areas and intervention needs; recommendation of mitigation measures; analysis of forms of professional conversion of workers of rapid wear occupations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the working group is implementing a programme with regular meetings, the last of which happened on 20 September, and today it is meeting to continue its work. [[Protests from PSD, CH and PCP Members.]] In addition to the working meetings, the various bodies that integrate it have submitted the documents necessary for the preparation of the report, as defined in the script and agreed on in the index proposal, always meeting the pre-established deadlines. We therefore stress that it is premature to approve any initiatives that recognize or recommend the status of rapid wear-out to new professions until the work of the working group is completed and the final report is presented. Only with a detailed analysis of legislation, international and national good practices, with a re-evaluation of the legal framework of professions and their regulations, with the identification of priority areas and intervention needs, with the formulation of recommendations and proposals for public policy, can we protect these professionals during their active life, ensuring, in a serious way, better working conditions, through measures to mitigate penosity and risk that allow them to live a long and healthy life even after their retirement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, there has been strong pressure that the group of rapidly worn-out professions should be extended, always with monetary logic. But what we all have to do is propose limits in its exercise to mitigate occupational risks, recommend measures to reduce penocity and point out the possible ways of conversion that will enable us to maintain a long and healthy life. The professionals who support us every day in health responses deserve to continue to guarantee better and robust working conditions, with the implementation of mitigating measures of negative impacts, whether physical or psychologically, and not to reduce the approach exclusively to pay supplements and supplements. In conclusion, we have several initiatives to follow this petition and we have a working group engaged in the study of the professions of rapid wear and work. Let us therefore hope for the conclusions to be drawn in the report. We therefore consider these initiatives, at least, to be time-consuming. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u133	It started so well and ended so badly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u134	Extemporaneous is your government! Extemporaneous is the PS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u135	For an intervention, I now give the floor to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires. Mrs. Deputy still has 53 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u136	Mr President, Member of the Socialist Party, I think that many of us had some hope that, although we are again talking about rapidly worn-out professions, we have had some change here, some evolution, in the Socialist Party's speech on this subject, until we are talking about health professionals and we all realize that the reality of these professionals is serious at this time, and that we therefore need to move forward. Madam Member, the number of times we have heard, in debates on rapid wear occupations, that the working group is working... In addition, by magic, in the days when we discussed some proposals, the working group, coincidentally, is working exactly this day!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u137	That's where he works! [[PSD Protests and PS Deputies Counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u138	The problem is that we have been in this House for years waiting for results, to know what this working group is discussing, what it is doing, what it is studying. Nobody, in this House of the Republic, you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u139	It's December!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u140	So we've been running for years, for several years, in this situation and it was time for the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u141	It's the end of the year!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u142	... when we discuss quick wear, start to have a different attitude, even with respect to the various professionals who come to this Assembly of the Republic to make these requests and launch these alerts on their professions. Because — and I will finish, Mr President — what is also left of this intervention by the Socialist Party is that health professionals still do not have a single word for the recovery of their careers and, in particular, for their rights to be safeguarded. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u143	The report is in December!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u144	For an intervention, I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition, its 31 000 signatures and its first petitioner, Eduardo Bernardino, come to tell us one thing, which I think is of consensus in Portuguese society, which is that nurses and nurses are first-line health professionals who, many years ago, are the backbone of the National Health Service. Before there was a National Health Service, it was a profession that provided the first and most important care for our population and, since that time, they have not been as respected as they should be. In order not to go to the time when nurses did not even have the right to freedom to marry, for example — it was forbidden in times that they could do so —... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... now what we have is a profession that works too many hours, that has a service that is exhausting, that is very little paid for the service it provides, even when it does specializations that pays from its pocket—and that are not trainings, as they should be, given by the state, because we all care—and that, even at the top of their career, in particular in the SNS, they earn less than often what privates can offer or foreign services, which offer several times what they earn in Portugal. Therefore, we must make a collective effort to, at least in what is more than human and fair that we recognize—that it is a rapidly worn-out profession—that nurses and nurses have this recognition and that this recognition passes from words to the law and that it means that they can have this retirement earlier and under all conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u146	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is any matter that is extremely important to nurses, this is the one of the penosity and high risk of the profession. So we should be very careful here when we talk about it. In fact, we are talking about a profession in which it is clear the recognition of risk and penosity. In fact, I would like to remind the honourable Members. Members, and especially the PS Parliamentary Group, Decree-Law No. 437 / 91, on nursing career, which already recognized it, see Article 57. the, the title of which is this: « Compensation for the performance of functions under particularly harsh conditions ». This is what was in force in 1991, and until 1998, at the time of the new nursing career, when the PS government eliminated this compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u148	The PS came and dragged, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u149	It compensated the nurses of the services of psychiatry and oncology, that is, the nurses subjects, in fact, mental and emotional wear. And they benefited from what? Holiday and reduction, for every three years, of a weekly hour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u150	It is the best way to kill the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u151	Then there was another article, Article 62. o — Application,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u152	Then there's no one working!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u153	... also eliminated by the PS government of the time, where the following is provided:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u154	It's the government you've supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u155	She had taken nurses today to be able to retire at age 35 and 57... [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] In fact, 35 years of service and 57 years of age! I was already thinking about age, you know why, Mrs. Joana Lima? Because nurses today retire at 66 years and 4 months. It means that this change from almost one decade to another is what the PS forces nurses to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u156	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u157	And this is what we need to discuss. In conclusion, if the risk and penosity are recognised, then there are measures already immediately to compensate for this risk and penosity. Mrs. Isabel Santos, I want to tell you, as to what is the quick wear: work there and then come the results. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u158	It must be, it must be! Wait a minute! [[Protests by PS Members and PCP MP John Dias counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u159	I now give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Isabel Santos: I find it strange that the Working Party on Professional Orders had 'half a dozen days' — between quotes, logically — to hold hearings, hearings, votes, a whole series of acts of extraordinarily important final work, and that a working group dealing with the exact professions of rapid wear which would take years to come to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u161	It's only when the PS wants to!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u162	Unfortunately, Mrs Deputy, this working group is not a quick working group, it is a very slow working group. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u163	I now give the floor to the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this final stage of the debate, Mr President, it is important to mention a number of things. One first is that the Government imposes a working pace on Parliament which the Government itself cannot have in the working groups it constitutes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u165	Mr Jorge Galveias has just done so! That's not done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u166	This is the first note. And the example has now been given by the Member of the Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u167	It's the orange trailer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u168	Then there is another issue that is important to record, which is: Mrs. Deputy brought nothing new in her speech, except to say that they are gathered today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u169	It's the PSD trailer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u170	... which leads us to conclude that from today on it is important for political parties, in this Parliament, to schedule every week everything that is premeditating matters that must be resolved, because they come here, discuss and say that they are meeting and that they are dealing with the matter. [[PSD applause.]] I am talking about this and I could mention a number of other things, such as the review of careers or wage valuation, because we look at the State budget and what we can conclude is that that forecast of the increase in expenditure with staff of 6, 3 %, which you present, is more than inflation. I mean, nurses and professionals won't have any career review, they won't have any salary review. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u171	Really? Oh, my God! Are you worried about that? Oh, my God! Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u172	It is also important to record that. But it is all right — and to conclude, Mr President — we have another debate. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] I know you're upset, Mrs. Joana Lima, but here's the record that we're going to start to debate, so the government moves and really solves people's problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u173	The PS bench is that it's extemporaneous! Elections, quick!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u174	Excellent debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no more points to discuss, but we still have two smaller moments. At first, I will give the floor to our colleague, Mrs Palmira Maciel, who has very important announcements to transmit to the House. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u175	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the Draft of Deliberation No 15 / XV / 2. a ( PAR), Bills Nos 943 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 945 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission and draft resolution No 939 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-12.u176	Thank you, Mrs Palmira Maciel. Now, if you will allow me, I will make the announcement of the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting on October 13th, Friday beginning at 10 a.m. The first item on the agenda is the general discussion of the Bill No 105 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Extension until 31 December 2023 the transitional application of VAT exemption to certain food products and draft Law No 912 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Increases the range of essential goods benefiting from VAT exemption as well as prolongs the period of exemption, 919 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Extends the transitional application of VAT exemption to food products suitable for children and vegetarians and extends the period of application of this scheme, 920 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Extension of the transitional application of VAT exemption to products intended for pet feeding and 927 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — basic food price scheme. The second point of our agenda is the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 882 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage and 903 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Increase of national minimum wage and public administration salaries, together with Bill No. 914 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Updates the value of the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration for 900, in general. The third point consists in the general discussion of the Bill No 72 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of Nationality, and of the Bills No. 909 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Determines the cessation of the regime of granting Portuguese nationality by mere effect of the descent of Sephardite Jews expelled from Portugal in 1496 ( 10th amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Nationality Law ), and 911 / XV / 2. a (CH) — Change the law of nationality by making the criteria for the acquisition of nationality more balanced. of the fourth point is the discussion of Petition No 60 / XV / 1. a ( Joana Teixeira e Silva et al.) — Defense of the speciality of general and family medicine and primary health care in Portugal, together with, in general, the Bill No. 812 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend Decree-Law No. 298/2007 of 22 August in order to ensure universal access to medical specialists in general and family medicine, and with Resolution Projects No. 715 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it assign to the family health units, models A and B, and to the personalized health units the institutional incentives, provided for in Decree-Law No 298 / 2007 of 22 August, and Portaria No 212 / 2017 of 19 July, 749 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By defending the specialty of general and family medicine, 894 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Investing in general and family medicine and primary health care and 898 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening primary health care in proximity to populations. Finally, the fifth point is to vote. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good night and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 33 minutes.]]
