ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, very late to all. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Today's agenda will be preceded by the reading of the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Maria da Luz Rosinha for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u2	Mr President, I begin by reading an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which reports on the following: « At a meeting held on 8 February 2023, opinion No 12 of 19 January ( annex ) was rectified by this opinion replacing it for all legal purposes as follows: Following resignation pursuant to Article 7. that of the Statute of Deputies, the following replacement of Member has been observed in accordance with Article 9 ( 1 ). the legal diploma, Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party ( PSD ). 1. Mr Mário Sérgio Quaresma Gonçalves Marques ( constituency of Madeira ) renounced the mandate, “with immediate effect”, by letter dated 16 January 2023, which entered the office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic on 17 January 2023, from which the waiver is considered perfect. 2. On 18 January 2023, the management of the respective parliamentary group reported that, in place of Mr. Mário Quaresma Gonçalves Marques, who ceased his duties on 17 January, took up the mandate of João Dinis Santos Ramos (Electoral Circle of Madeira ). 3. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate, João Dinis Santos Ramos, is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, as presented in the list of votes in Madeira. 4. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. 5. in this regard, the Commission intends to make the following: Opinion Following the termination of Mr Mário Sérgio Quaresma Gonçalves Marques, on 17 January 2023, for renunciation, took over the term of office, in its replacement, João Dinis Santos Ramos, with effect from 18 January 2023, including. Do not keep on seeking. ” This opinion should be voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u3	Let us then vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Madam Member, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u4	Mr President, I am now announcing the withdrawal by the proposer of the Lein Projects 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168 and 304 / XV / 1. a, all of BE, who had gone down to 10. the Commission. I also announce that you have entered the Bureau, and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 544 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u5	Let us therefore begin our agenda, which consists of the debate on sectoral policy, with the Minister of the Economy and the Sea and his team under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, Antonio Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u6	Good afternoon to all. I should like to begin by congratulating Mr President and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a great pleasure to be in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the essential problems of our country. I wanted to make this initial introduction by drawing attention to the performance of the Portuguese economy in 2022, which was very good. We have had a growth of 6, 7 % of GDP (gross domestic product) and since 1987 the country has not reached such a mark. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal's gross domestic product, in 2022, increased by EUR 210 billion, EUR 13, EUR 2 billion above what had been achieved in 2021. It is clear that the growth of the economy offers more opportunities for citizens, more jobs, and the increase in the number of jobs in the country in 2022 was in the order of 210 000. So my first message is this: an economy that can develop and grow creates more opportunities, although we know that the year 2022 was extremely difficult, due to the emergence of inflation, as we have not seen for decades now, which has limited and conditioned the income of families and also of businesses. The second point I wanted to mention concerns the exporting capacity of the country. The Government, which is often accused of being optimistic, had included in its Programme the objective of reaching 50 % of the Export Product in 2025. This goal was achieved in 2022, therefore exports to Portugal increased by 50 % of the Product. A growing economy, which can export, which can diversify its markets is absolutely remarkable, and I believe that this is the way to the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then we have everything that has happened in the different sectors of the national economy and the enthusiasm that this has generated at the level of operators and the results. The first relates to tourism, which had reached 18, 4 billion euros of revenue in 2019. With the flag effect of the pandemic in 2020 and 2021, we all thought it would be very difficult for tourism to recover in subsequent years. Well, he recovered in 2022. Revenues reach EUR 22 billion, which is an absolute record in the history of tourism in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u8	Tourism is one of the engines of our economy. It is cross-sectional, it has grown in all regions of the country and we want to transform it into an instrument for local development, into a booster of the economy, across the whole country. However, the Portuguese economy is not just tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u9	Now you've spoken well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u10	Our metal mechanics and equipment and machinery manufacturing sector has exceeded EUR 20 billion in terms of exports. This is also a remarkable thing, which we have never achieved before in history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The maximum that textiles and clothing, which were put in a technological centre, which reformed their value chains, which diversified their exports, had achieved was EUR 5300 million of revenue. Well, in 2022, they exceeded 6 billion, and let's see how this will enhance in terms of the future. Then, when we analyze other sectors, such as footwear, which is relatively small but significant, the records are also marked. In 2022, 76 million pairs of shoes were exported to more than 170 countries in the world and revenues exceeded EUR 2000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I believe that the signs we have at the beginning of 2023 are very positive for the economy, not only in terms of its export performance, in the ability to diversify its penetration in international markets, but also in the results that give very acceptable indicators for inflation. Inflation was one of the major problems we had in 2022. It fell for the first time in December last year when it reached 9 %, 6 %, and in January this year it reached 8 %. Therefore, we have here the reduction of inflation, which can provide or advocate a reversal framework in the upward trend of prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u11	Reversion? Oh, my God! So, are prices going to drop? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u12	And why do I say that? Because a crucial indicator is underlying inflation. Now, if we remove volatile components — everything that has to do with energy and unprocessed food goods — in January 2023, for the first time in the last 16 months, the underlying inflation has decreased. This is a very important indicator. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The other positive signs come from the external environment and are very interesting, from the very outset of our European partners, starting with Germany, which will probably avoid the recession as well as Spain. There are other indicators that are very important. At the level of international stock markets, the beginning of this year is marked by an upward trajectory. We had a 5% increase in the Standard & Poor's 500 index in the United States, followed by 5 per cent in Europe and in Asian countries. This is also an indication of investor confidence. In the Portuguese economy, this is reflected in exactly the indicators of confidence: the indicator of consumer confidence in Portugal rose in December 2022 and rose again in January 2023; when we look at the economic climate, which is fundamental, in January this year this indicator rose and was positive; and when we analyze the various sectors of the economy, since the processing industry, construction and public works, trade and services, the indicators of confidence are rising. So I think these numbers are a kind of defeat of pessimism. We cannot go into oblivion, but we must also reject the catastrophic views on the development of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are some concerns about the future, especially with geopolitical uncertainty, but there is one issue that is also crucial and that I would like to stress, which is the consistent decrease in prices in energy markets. The price of gas, which flagged many of the companies in Portugal, reached a peak on August 26, 2022, of 339 € / MWh, and, at the end of January, was at 50 € / MWh. We have a reduction of more than 80 % in the price of gas and international markets, at energy level, are moving towards stabilization. If these factors get together, I think we're going to have a year of 2023 better than we were expecting a few months ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to stress what the government has done not only to meet the challenges and uncertainties, but also to strengthen confidence in all sectors of the economy. We have implemented PT2020 ( Portugal 2020 ), which on 31 December 2022 had an implementation of EUR 18, EUR 6 billion, corresponding to an implementation rate of 87 %. The Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) was designed and planned to be implemented by around 8 % in 2022 with the payment of EUR 1400 million, and this was achieved. With regard to the PRR for this year, the cumulative implementation rate must reach 32 %, and since the Mobilizing Agendas to Decarbonisation, to the 4.0 companies and to the other sectors, with greater or less difficulties, we are able to respond. The PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ), using a warning anticipation mechanism, is already on the ground. The first major mechanism, which has to do with the internationalisation of companies, has already been launched, with a massive response from companies — about 1400 companies, which are engaged in 36 consortia — and will be an incentive of 52, 5 million euros, a total of 92, 5 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from the point of view of the Government and the Ministry of Economics and the Sea, and to conclude, my message is that we are working with all sectors, we are trying to galvanize the country for this very important transformation. Europe is being transformed. The year 2022 was historic from the point of view of energy transformation and we want our country to be part of it, linked to digital transformation. The studies that exist on the impact of new digital technologies on the economy say that these can be 10 times faster than those of the Industrial Revolution, and on a 300 times higher scale. So by keeping the focus, keeping the road, working with all operators, we will respond to the policies that are at the government's level and that can draw a more sound and promising future for the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u13	Let's start the first round of the debate. The beginning lies with the largest party in the opposition, the PSD, which has registered for this purpose two Members. First of all, Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Minister has recently stated that there is a disparity between the performance of the Portuguese economy and the lives of Portuguese people. He acknowledges that there is a problem and wants to transform the Ministry of Economy into the country's'machine house'. He said more: "We have spent our lives discussing how we will distribute wealth, but everything is resolved if we can create more wealth supported by technological transformation and innovation. » This is a good message for the left, especially for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[PSD applause.]] The role of the National Innovation Agency in promoting innovation in general is unquestionable and in monitoring and dynamizing the mobilising agendas for RRP innovation, in particular. Mr Minister, when we thought you had arranged your ministry, after the resignation of the President of the IAPMEI (Agence para la Competitiveité e Innovación), in the change of the Administration of the Development Bank and the exemption of Mr. Secretary of State for Industry and Tourism, we have resigned President Joana Mendonça, in a loud knock on the door, as has not been seen, invoking that the Minister and the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education do not want to know about the Agency nor meet. It is also public that this resignation is causing great discomfort within the Socialist Party and members of the Government. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, what explanation or explanation does this House have to give? How can one more resignation, one more case and one home? Are you surprised? That's the point. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u15	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u16	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Mendes, you are completely wrong. Don't be fooled by news from the newspapers. [[PS laughter.]] We work 24 hours a day, if necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, Mr. Member, today, Mr. Secretary of State for the Economy, who is one of the most competent people we have, spent all morning meeting with the presidency of the National Innovation Agency (NIA), at a meeting that was already planned for a long time. Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs met in December and met in January. The Minister of Economy and the Minister of Science have met with the President of the National Innovation Agency to discuss our Space Agency, which is of the most important things that the country has to develop the cluster of aeronautical and the cluster of space.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u17	And she quit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u18	Mr President, do not let yourself be deluded by the resignations. I have a lot of management experience and when I'm confronted with the idea that people going out are irreplaceable, I can only say they're not. No one is irreplaceable, starting with the places of government and public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what's going on? What's going on? My experience tells me that when people come out, and that is a personal option, they will be replaced. We will identify a person with many capacities in innovation management and their knowledge and will further improve the National Innovation Agency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u19	It is not « even more», it is something! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u20	Mr. Jorge Mendes may continue to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u21	Mr President, Minister, it seems that the news has misled us, that the President of the ANI has not resigned, but we are going to expect further developments. Mr Minister, it is clear that the Portuguese perception of our economy and government does not coincide. This dissatisfaction of Portuguese is only surprising to the Government of a country where about 50 % of people are poor or live with many difficulties and essential public services, such as health and education, are broken down. At the same time, we find unacceptable situations, which we already thought were overcome, and which the government does not resolve and often hides. I give an example of the delay in State payments to suppliers. We continue to have an unacceptable situation of late payments, with more than six months and even more than one year behind. We have a letter from 2000 companies outraged by this situation. The Minister comes from the private sector, he is a man of management, from the companies, he well knows the contracts that this causes, in terms of treasury, even in the development of new essential investments to the PRR. Until when is this bad example of the State, Minister? What are you doing, in your ministry, to end this situation at once? Second question: Mr Minister, in an interview with the public, refers to the need to turn the Public Administration into a administration focused on results, repeats, focused on results and not on opinions. And at a time of great pressure to execute the PT2020, the PRR and the PT2030, it is vital to support experienced and motivated frameworks of intermediate bodies affected by the management of European funds. Mr Minister, when he concludes the process of regularization of workers within the PREVPAV ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of precarious links in Public Administration ), in terms of linkages and career development, in services affecting the COMPETE (Thematic Operational Programme Competitiveness and Internationalization) and other European funds? Is it understood that this postponement and the eventual exit of these technicians can constitute a serious obstacle to the implementation of the PT2020 and the PRR? Have you spoken to the Minister of the Presidency about how to resolve these issues at times over four years? CIMEC — Committee on the Follow-up of Special Public Procurement Measures, in the second report, on the difficulties in the implementation of the PRR by public bodies, notes that they have pointed out that the tenders are often held in the Ministry of Finance, pending the extension of charges more than six months and up to one year, resulting in the withdrawal of competitors and in empty competitions. Mr Minister, why simplify, have a given administration, when the tenders to the captive PRR are then held in the Ministry of Finance? Oh, my God! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as is public, the Government has decided to open the PRR review process. We are going to have a reinforcement of funds — we speak of 2300 million — and we have already begun to see the film, in fact, the main actors are already on the ground with the most various arguments: some are calling for more money for the mobilization agendas guarded by their ministry and companies, which is what we are defending; others are calling for the strengthening of housing, without which the government will not complete the 2600 houses promised; the worst of them call for the spillover of the costs of the large infrastructures, such as the metro in Lisbon and Porto, but — woe to us! — now that it will be; others wish to have access, with all legitimacy, to the words of the PRR, such as the ports and the authorities, to the works of the schools and health centres, to the responsibility of the government. Minister, how is this film gonna end? Will Minister Costa and Silva be the locomotive, the government driver or the secondary actor in the ongoing PRR review process? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u22	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u23	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Mendes, I think that the issues he raises are very important. On the first question, I am a defender that we must have a state that is a good payer and I therefore argue that it is essential to pay in time, especially the debts it has for companies. We're working at that level. There is also sensitivity on the part of Mr Finance Minister, so let us see how this problem will be tackled. But for me, it is a very important problem, especially when companies are in times of crisis and difficulties. On the second point, the Public Administration, I think we have a public administration with many quality sectors, has many dedicated people, but there is no doubt that there is a mental paradigm in the Public Administration and that is why I say that it is more oriented to produce opinions. However, we need a results-oriented public administration. That is, when a company submits a project, it interacts with five or six bodies, each of them gives an opinion and, in the end, there is no decision, but we have to go back to this scheme, to decide, to focus on a decision and answer that problem. And this is all the more urgent when, with PT2020, which will end at the end of this year, the implementation of the PRR and PT2030, we will have to run more than twice as much of the European funds that we were used to running in the past. So it's this dynamic that we're trying to print to the Public Administration, to our bodies, and I think it's going to work. On the third point, which is very important, the reorganization of the PRR and the decision on the destination of the funds which the European Union will give to each of the remaining countries, there is a clear commitment, also by the Prime Minister, to strengthen the mobilization agendas. I would like to remind you that, initially, we were counting on 10 mobilising agendas and EUR 930 million of investment; we received 140 proposals, we selected 70 and, of these 70, there are today 53 that will be supported. And total support means EUR 7, EUR 6 billion, and public investment, state investment has to reach EUR 3000 million. Therefore, part of the RRP reprogramming will certainly go from the Prime Minister also to the mobilization agendas, because, as the Prime Minister himself says, this is one of the most transformative programs of the RRP and the most transformers of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u24	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, also from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Economy, on 2 July 2020, in the midst of the confusion of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), which lasts until today, the Government has decided to nationalize Efacec. The justification was always: the strategic importance of that company. They promised us, however, their rapid reprivatization, at no cost to the taxpayers, they said, since the company was absolutely viable and, certainly, between the Egyptians, Chinese and Spanish, they would not lack interest in that purchase. Mr Minister, two years and eight months later, the company was not sold and the Portuguese, with the money from their taxes, had already had to bear EUR 50 million in capital injections; EUR 115 million in guarantees to bank financing; EUR 40 million, only in the last four months, to meet the company's needs for funds. Mr Minister, two years and eight months later, Efacec closed the year 2022 with an operational loss of more than EUR 105 million and a break of 68 % in turnover; it is in technical bankruptcy, with negative own capital, and a debt that already exceeds EUR 250 million. The Minister has confessed that Efacec lacks strategy, a clear shareholder is missing and that the state — and that the State! — he is not a good shareholder. You know, Minister, the problem is that the Minister integrates a government that is afraid not to realize that the state should not get involved in private business, because whenever that happens, it is always the taxpayers who end up paying the bill. [[PSD applause.]] And the Portuguese are paying this bill! Mr Minister, as I mentioned at the outset, the government has guaranteed us the financial good health of the company, but that is not true. But he didn't apologize to the Portuguese. The government has promised us rapid reprivatization. That didn't happen, but he didn't apologize to the Portuguese. The government has promised us a cost-free reprivatization for taxpayers, but the Minister has already been saying, it has already come forward that there is no guarantee that the money buried in Efacec will be fully recovered. Mr Minister, please tell us once and for all: how much will the Portuguese still have to pay to sell this company? When is the government going to apologize to the Portuguese for scouring them with the nationalization of TAP? And now and to finish, Minister, when will this nightmare end for the Portuguese? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u26	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u27	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, thank you very much for your questions. Efacec, as I have said, is a national technology company. in it work 2000 Portuguese and, therefore, Portuguese are not only the rest of the country, it is also those who work in companies and whose future we have to safeguard. When I entered the government, Efacec's nationalization decision was taken, the process was developing. I have already participated in many business transactions and I sincerely hope that the one that is taking place now will be taken to the right port. The key issue, when there is a transaction of a company and a sale, is to ensure the competitiveness of the process to the end. That is absolutely vital and the mistake we can make here is to let there be only one company that thinks it will have, let's say, the final objective. We are working smoothly to ensure this transaction. As you know, with the diploma approved by the Government, a new process of reprivatization began, which is being directed by PARPUBLICA, Public Participations, SGPS, S.A. We have a team we trust, Prof. Jaime Andrez, who is being advised. The process is developing and consultations have already been made to the databases of the various stakeholders. At first, we had 10 stakeholders today, we have 7 and, for your information, we continue to receive proposals of interest in the company by international companies. Although he realizes that, from a political point of view, Efacec has to be gripped, do not forget that he is a technological company, leader in transformers, energy and electrical mobility. She can play a role. When I arose here in this House the question of strategy, it had to do with shareholders. The shareholders, who are the owners of the company, define what they want from it and, so far, the situation, at least in the past, has not been very clear. We don't want to be Efacec shareholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u28	But it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u29	Clearly, and I said - here, the government is not a good shareholder of Efacec, because it is a technological company and a good shareholder requires being tuned with what is happening in international markets, monitoring and defining the strategic plan and not putting a company working in multiple areas, in multiple tables, without a clear direction. With what is developing, after consulting the databases, the datarooms, the presentations that management has made and the meetings that experts in the various areas have provided, at the request of the 7 concerned, we will wait for the final result. We are approaching the date when the binding proposals from these stakeholders will be presented and will then compete with the Government to choose and share with the House every detail. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u30	I don't know if Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira wants to take advantage of the remaining five seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u31	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u32	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, who daily harms Efacec is exactly the government, they are certainly not the opposition parties. However, Mr Minister, allow me to ask you two questions. The first concerns the fact that Mr. Minister said that when he took office in the government, the process of nationalization had already occurred, which is true, but the question remains whether or not he agrees with the nationalisation that occurred in 2020 before his arrival in the Government. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u34	The second question is the one that is most important for this House and for those we represent, which are the Portuguese: how much of your taxes are the Portuguese still going to have to have to sell the Efacec company? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u35	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u36	Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, my states of mind or my visions have no interest here. [[Ah, there, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u37	This is a process that is being launched, and what I am doing, from the point of view of management and what I know about the transaction, is ensuring a good transaction of the company. As I have already said in this House, I think that the State is not a good shareholder of a company like Efacec, and this is assumed by the government. That is why the government wanted to reprivatize it from the beginning. The government intervened to prevent the collapse of the company, which would have left 2000 workers completely unemployed. It was the intervention and decision taken at the time, and now we have to complete the procedure. I believe that if we complete the process within a month or two, the injections we have to make in the company, especially at the level of the treasury, will be very limited and, therefore, we will not pass the numbers that you have said. at present, the figures amount to around EUR 165 million, between capital injections to the treasury and the guarantees that have been given. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u38	We'll talk in two months!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u39	We now move on to the time allocated to the Parliamentary Group of Arrival. To put your questions, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u40	Mr President, Minister, as you have said, you are not here to explain to us your states of soul or your state of mind, but there is one issue that I cannot allow to pass, now, by taking advantage of your presence here in Parliament. Mr Minister said here, in this House, in a committee, that he deeply regretted the culture of suspicion which is being launched on government members, ministers and State Secretaries. I would like to ask you if you do not think that the government has responsibility for this culture of suspicion. It is that when we have a government in which a state secretary, his, that of Tourism, leaves his public work and wants to go back to private work, to whom he has provided subsidies and support... [[PS protests.]] I know this is hard to hear from the PS! I know this is hard to hear from the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u41	It doesn't cost anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u42	When we have a state secretary who leaves to go to work for the Treasury Secretary of State, with a million-dollar compensation without having done so, when we have State Secretaries who do not remember that they have given authorizations for these compensations, I would like to ask you if you think this is a culture of suspicion or if your government is taking the lead, allowing this culture of suspicion to be created in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u43	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u44	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I would like to stress again what he said: I think that if we want to build a democratic country and a society in which people respect each other, we cannot turn our backs on a culture of suspicion. And the culture of suspicion means that the minimum news in a newspaper is exposed, people are condemned and judged and their careers failed. We are not in the Middle Ages, we are, I know, in the 21st century. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the 21st century demands absolute respect for the rule of law. The honourable Member, who is a jurist, knows that this is a basic principle of the functioning of democracies. What's going on here? The Prime Minister has already been given an opportunity to acknowledge that the Government has taken a stand and has contributed, with some mistakes, to some of these situations. But the government will correct the situation, because the fundamental issue, when speaking of a government, is the leadership and the government has a strong leadership of the Prime Minister, who has already proved in multiple circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think that the honourable Member, who is interested in political sociology and political issues, will see perhaps in the future a thesis to explain how a government that has gone through a pandemic, with all the difficulties, can get its Prime Minister to submit to elections, then win with an absolute majority. This is extraordinary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u45	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u46	That's science fiction, it's not sociology!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u47	Mr President, this is absolutely extraordinary from a political point of view, and we must trust this leadership. About Secretary of State Rita Marques, she had the desire to accompany a company she herself interacted with when she was Secretary of State. This is a violation of the law and it has withdrawn from the process, recognizing it. The services of the Ministry of Economics, following what the Prime Minister here assumed, have been checked all the facts — we have this opinion from our technical services — and the conclusion clearly indicates that there were no irregularities in the allocation of the tourist utility to that undertaking. The allocation of the tourist utility is based on Decree-Law No. 423 / 83 of 5 December, they are objectively established what are the criteria and were verified, and there are no irregularities in this assignment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u48	Mr André Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u49	Mr Minister, honestly, the secretary withdrew when she was caught, she did not withdraw for her own will! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u50	I ask you to hear the speaker who is speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u51	He did not withdraw for his own sake! in the same way, the State secretary who received a millionaire compensation from the TAP did not say: "Oh, my God, this is so immoral. I'm leaving! Not at all! Do you know what allowed that, Minister? It was not a culture of suspicion, it is called 'crutinium', which was what you didn't have and, when you started to have, you were Secretary of State behind State Secretary, public executive behind public executive. So, Minister, excuse me for coming up with theories. I'm going to tell you one thing: nobody knows who's going to win the next election, but I cut this hand... The speaker points to his right hand. ...in that it is not the Socialist Party again to win the next elections. I cut off this hand, in how the Socialist Party does not win the elections again. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u52	I ask for silence. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. André Ventura, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Therefore, Minister, if we have these cases and homes today this is due only to your government. And don't forget what I said to him: my hand is at stake, in this case,... [[PS and PSD rice.]] ...and we'll see, in the future, who was right. But I cannot but mention the resignation of the Director of the National Innovation Agency, because the Minister said here today that it was a personal option. I have here the letter that Mr. Manager wrote, in which she said she lacked political support and lack of interaction, particularly at the level of PRR programmes and even in the program of tax benefits for innovation of SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives for Research and Entrepreneurial Development) as well as the approval of the National Innovation Agency's own programme. We know that he resigned, or that he was resigned by himself, the President of IAPMEI, with responsibility of 14 % of the PRR, I repeat 14 % of the PRR. Mr Minister, what is under way is not resigning for personal reasons, it is a political purge, led by your ministry, for you, because you want to keep these people away. That is why this Parliament has the right to ask you what is happening with the resignations in your ministry. Why are leaders dismissed after leaders? It's just that you might be pushing away people you can't trust, but you have to give this House the explanation for it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u54	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u55	Mr. André Ventura, it is better not often to repeat the issue of hand, because you will probably have to cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the questions of political purges, I think that you have much more experience of political purges in your party than I do, do not forget. [[P.S.'s applause and laughter.]] As for the third point, which is very clear, do not be impressed by the lights of the holofotes on resignations and changes. Changes are part of life. As the prince of the Portuguese poets said: "The world is composed of change. » The changes, with the choices made, will improve the organizations and, if you want to tell them, the ANI is responsible for a program, which is the Interface. The Interface Programme, involving EUR 186 million, is fully aligned with the objectives. We have 66 entities that will be supported; 35 collaborative laboratories have already been selected; 20 of these projects have already been approved, amounting to 62, 5 million euros; and the technological and innovation centres, which constitute the rest, are also on the way to be supported. So don't be upset about it. We will respond and draw up all the proposals that are necessary to resolve the situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u56	Mr André Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u57	Mr President, Minister, I do not make you political purges. contrary to you, I win elections, and it is the fifth time I win elections, unlike you, that never won a single election in life. This is the fifth time I win elections. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is called democracy. It is called democracy and it is called people's vote. I know that maybe I don't know what that is, but it's called democracy. [[PS protests.]] Take it easy, take it easy! Mr Minister, I came here to hear the Minister of the Economy and the Sea, I did not come to hear a sermon by Brother Bento Domingues. Honestly, I did not come here to hear that 'we are all very well' and 'now you realize that what is needed'... No! I asked you a question and I think that Parliament has the right to get an answer! Why did the director of the ANI quit? Why? Tell us why! Answer us here why, instead of making flowering with poetry and things that do not interest anyone. It is to this House and only to this House that the Government answers and therefore I repeat the question and I ask you to answer. And leave the unreplaceables and purges there. Answer this: why did the director of the National Innovation Agency resign himself? What do you know about it and why did she quit? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u58	I ask for restraint from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u59	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, to talk about economics here in Parliament, I have to receive questions about economics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Cases and houses that are of great interest to you have little meaning. It's the foam of the days. The Director resigned, said she was unable to continue. I have already said in this Chamber that I and the Minister of Science had meetings with her, in the Ministry of Science, and Mr. Secretary of State of the Economy, who is here and who is an extremely competent and meticulous person...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u60	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u61	You know, but it's about strengthening, because sometimes when you're talking, it seems like other people aren't worth anything. You're the only one who knows. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You seem to have the truth of the world in your head. But, Mr President, when we hear your speeches, we realize that you do not have a single idea for the country's economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] You don't have one idea for the country's economy! I understand why he's taking refuge in cases and homes. It's because it's the only thing you can talk about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u62	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u63	Mr President, I reiterate: if I am going to ask questions, I have to get answers. What we're getting is all less answers. It's blooming, talking about washing hands and nothing! So I already realized, Minister, that you will refuse to answer the questions about the resignation and removal of charges that have occurred in your Ministry. It will be historically recorded that, in this House, before which Mr Minister answers, you refused to answer the following questions: why are you pushing people away? And why do others want to move away? They make it clear that they are moving away and that you are being a bad minister of the economy, because you are not running the PRR well and because you are not doing your job well. That's why they're resigning. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Rice from the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea.]] Minister, you may laugh that the Portuguese aren't laughing so much. Look, the case is your incompetence to be Minister of Economics,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u64	... when he says he supports the advantages of buying TAP for Iberia. So the biggest competitor of the TAP, the neighbouring country, wants to cancel the Lisbon airport and make Madrid the airport reference center of the Iberian Peninsula, and the Minister of Economy, who puts red and green and not yellow and red in the lapel, says it's a good idea to sell the TAP to Iberia? Oh, my God! Minister, I'm sorry, this is not just antipatriotism, it's pure and deep incompetence. How does it justify selling TAP to Iberia? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u65	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u66	Mr President, honourable Member, the honourable Member is that he is completely incompetent with management and business transaction processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u67	Be respectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u68	When we are in the business transaction process, I repeat, the fundamental objective is to attract the largest number of proposals. And when I made this statement in Spain, it was because we needed a proposal from Iberia, because we needed a proposal from Lufthansa, we needed other companies, because a greater number of proposals makes the process competitive. This is essential for us to conduct a business that is for the benefit of the country's destinations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u69	What a shame! Traitor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u70	And you don't understand. If you don't understand how business transactions are made, I won't explain it either. The choice will be that of the Prime Minister and the Government and that choice will weigh everything. Now, at this stage, we have to attract the largest number of proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u71	You have the floor again, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u72	Mr President, Minister, I am sorry, but that is not what Mr. Minister said. He's contradicting himself. I understand: for you, one thing is to give an interview in Madrid, with the Spanish comrades all there, and another is to be in the Portuguese Parliament now. I am sorry, but I am going to ask the President of the Assembly of the Republic to distribute a copy of the news with the following title: 'Ministry of Economics admits the advantage of the possible purchase of TAP by Iberia. Do not keep on seeking. ” I wonder if this is a journalist's lie or if it was his statement in Madrid. Sometimes the enthusiasm with which we are in Madrid is saying that it was'very good' is different from what we have when we are here responding to the Portuguese and saying that it was good for TAP to be sold to our competitor. Did Mr. Minister say this or not? I have the news here and I'm going to ask it to be distributed. The Minister has the chance to say: "This is a lie and therefore does not represent us. Do not keep on seeking. ” Finally, Mr Minister, as we have very little time, I will ask the rest of the questions and the Minister will answer. We have heard Mr Minister, since he took office, saying that the reduction of the unemployment rate was one of his main objectives. Because the unemployment rate rose to 6 % in the fourth quarter. [[PS protests.]] Let me just finish. I know it's uncomfortable, but let me just finish. The unemployment rate fell to 6 % in 2022, but rose to 6 % in the fourth quarter. We continue without 0 % VAT in the main food goods, contrary to what the Socialist Government did in Spain. So I want to ask you what your role in the economy is so reformist and so close to people who want to sell TAP to Iberia but who is not able to lower VAT for essential goods, and ends the last year with an unemployment rate of 6, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u73	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. Minister, you may not be able to make transactions between companies, but you know what I know? I know what the Portuguese want. And right now, they want to tell you one thing: you are an incompetent Minister of Economics. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u75	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u76	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I have already explained the issue of declarations on Iberia and the fundamental objective of attracting the largest number of tenderers to present proposals and have a competitive process. I think that is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u77	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u78	No, no, of course, of course, but you will interpret it as you want, we know your ability to interpret it. [[PS laughter.]] You even have this extraordinary question in this Parliament to say that it is the voice of the Portuguese. You are the voice of your party, but nothing else! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u79	And you're not even the voice of your family!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u80	On the issue of unemployment, Mr André Ventura, the labour market had a very impressive behaviour in 2022. At the end of the year, we have had a slight increase in unemployment—we are seeing whether it is a matter of seasonality or whether it is linked to other factors—but do not forget that with the growth of the Portuguese economy of 6, 7 % of GDP in 2022, more than 210 000 jobs have been created. And, therefore, this is the fundamental aspect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u81	We now move on to the time allocated to the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u82	Mr President, Minister, the Government has prided itself in the country in 2022, having had the greatest GDP growth in the last 35 years, without ever mentioning that this came as a result of the biggest GDP fall in the last 100 years and that Portugal, unlike most European countries, has failed to recover from this fall in the following year. What the PS's propaganda celebrates is basically Portugal has been a year late in recovering from all other countries. This is the reality of PS propaganda. Mr. Prime Minister often complains of the aggressiveness of the opposition, but, to be fair, the most aggressive opposition the PS has does not come from the PSD, does not come from the IL, does not come from the left, does not come from the Arrival, the most aggressive opposition the PS has comes from reality. Otherwise, let us see : PS's propaganda announces unprecedented economic growth, but according to the ECB's forecasts, Portugal will be the third least growing country of cohesion between 2019 and 2024, even though it is one of the least affected by the war in Ukraine. There's the reality of numbers opposing PS. PS's propaganda speaks of the export growth of 2022, without ever talking about the even greater growth of imports in 2022. We had, in 2022, the biggest trade balance deficit ever. This is the reality that opposes PS propaganda. PS speaks in a very competitive country. In fact, what happens is that Portugal is one of the countries with the greatest fiscal effort of the European Union and, in the recently published Fiscal Competitiveness Index, Portugal is 36. in 38 countries. In terms of fiscal competitiveness for companies, only Colombia is behind us. Also in competitiveness reality is the first to oppose PS. The PS praises the enormous achievements in promoting public school, but in the real world what happens is that parents who can choose are running from public school and exhausting next year's vacancies in private schools. Also in education reality is making opposition to PS. The PS praises the public management of hospitals and, through ideological beer, has ended with PPPs, promising that with public management the service would be much better. Then comes the reality, of course. of the most suspicious people, we have read that the Loures hospital is much worse since it became public management. Portugal is one of the countries where people spend most of their money on health. In Portugal, about a third of the Portuguese have to buy health plans to overcome the inefficiencies of the SNS. Once again, it is reality, also in health, to oppose the PS. In the world of PS propaganda, Portugal has tremendous growth, it is a very competitive country, Portuguese have never been better and public service, in education and in health, serves the needs of people perfectly. But in the real world, Portugal continues to sink into the rankings of the European Union. The Portuguese have lost purchasing power and those who can afford to run away from state dependence on education and health. The reality is the most aggressive opposition the PS has. The propaganda ginches are completely suffocated by the stront which is the reality of the Portuguese. So my question is very simple: for what world will the Minister continue to rule? For the world of propaganda of your party, in which everything is good and nothing needs to change, or for that world where the Portuguese really live? What do you want to do about the lack of competitiveness in the country and the trade balance deficit we had last year? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u83	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u84	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, thank you very much for your questions. When we analyze the country's economic development trajectory, we realize that the country is making a trajectory that is quite positive, as all the numbers indicate and I will emphasize. However, we have problems where we can still improve — competitiveness, productivity, diversification of exports. But Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, GDP in Portugal is growing 6, 7% in 2022 is not propaganda, it is reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, the fact that exports in 2022 exceeded 50 % of GDP is not propaganda is reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u85	What about imports?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u86	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, the fact that intangible capital, which is very important for developing the country, developing technology and innovation, is finally at the heart of the concerns of the business system is not propaganda. We increased the patent record in the country by 13 % in 2021, and attention was paid to the balance of the technological balance of exports, Mr. Member, which is meticulous and analyses the numbers, was EUR 119 million in 2015 and reached EUR 1293 million in 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it small? It's an increase of 10 times! Mr. Deputies, there has never been an increase of 10 times before. This means that the country is exporting more and more at the level of innovation and technology. And the export of high and medium technology, compared to 2015, grew by 40%. Therefore, these factors are linked to everything that happens at the level of the business fabric and the policies that we are implementing that I think can transform the Portuguese economy. And that is what we are going to go on for the future. On the other issues you have raised, I would just like to recall that government policies have led the country to a situation in which the wage mass in 2021 increased by about 11 %. We also had a minimum wage growth as never before. From 2015 to 2022, the national minimum wage increased by 50 %, the average wage increased by 29 % and we know the effect that the growth of the minimum wage has on the whole structure of wages and on the whole productive structure of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u87	Not at all! We don't know, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u88	I believe that this will also be significant for the development of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u89	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u90	Mr President, Mr Minister, in November, the Minister for Economic Affairs replaced two Secretaries of State, elected by his predecessor. In January, he exonerated the President of IAPMEI, also chosen by his predecessor, replacing him by his deputy, someone who had already come with you since the time of Partex. At the time, it was announced — and I quote — that Mr Minister was preparing to « carry out a cleaning in the IAPMEI's management structure and in other bodies protected by the Ministry of Economics». Not two weeks later, the President of the ANI, also appointed by his predecessor, submitted the resignation, with an aggressive letter, probably anticipating that Mr. Minister, perhaps, would resign her in any way. I'll tell you what this looks like, seen from outside. In view of this, it seems that the Minister is forcing a replacement of the nominees by his predecessor and replacing them by his trusted persons. So my question is this: what seems to be real out there or is there any other logic in this catapult resignation, and this does not just happen from a unfortunate coincidence? What do you expect to get with all these exchanges? Were the previous officials not competent enough or do they not have sufficient personal confidence in these people?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u91	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u92	Mr President, Mr Guimarães Pinto, I am very pleased to ask these questions about the Portuguese economy, its situation and the future. It's really dazzling.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u93	It's meritocracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u94	I would like to tell you something, Mr President. Members often accuse the government of being fossilized and doing nothing. When the government makes changes, "Carmo and the Trinity fall."
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u95	They're going to resign!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u96	Change is a part of life, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Teams are under continuous evaluation. What we want is to have the best people in the best places, so the organisms work as they should be. When everyone was attacking the Portuguese Development Bank and I named those two ladies—and Mr. Deputy was at the hearing—I told them: "The Portuguese Development Bank will be a great institution, it will be a large promotional bank in the country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u97	You're not going, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u98	And the Portuguese Development Bank today has a completely different dynamic. We're gonna have an ANI, we're gonna have an IAPMEI, we're gonna have organisms working. This doesn't mean the people who were before didn't do their job. They did their work meritorious, but often changes stimulate new dynamics, new reorganizations and new focus on what needs to be answered. That's how organizations work. Mr. Deputies, read about the theory of organizations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u99	We now pass at the time of the Portuguese Communist Party. To speak, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister for Economic Affairs, it is appropriate to say that the Portuguese economy has grown, but there is more to be said to it. The Portuguese economy has grown, but the levels of inflation and the government's lack of will to combat price increases, especially of essential goods and services, and to restore the purchasing power of families makes millions of Portuguese suffer increasingly difficulties. The economy has grown, but the external deficit is increasingly worrying. In 2022, the current and capital balance, for the first time since 2011, shows a deficit of EUR 1, EUR 7 billion, around 0, 7 % of GDP, mainly due to a rise in the balance of goods and goods which, until November, has reached an annual deficit of EUR 26 billion, more than 10 % of GDP. It is the worsening of the balance of primary income, with less than 4, 3 billion euros. The economy has grown, but the total investment is decreasing in our economy, representing only about 20 % of GDP today, when at the beginning of the century it was close to 30 %. With public investment, the situation is even more worrying. It weighs about 2, 5 % of GDP today, when at the beginning of the century it reached 5 %. Public investment, Minister, last year, remained EUR 2, EUR 4 billion below what was planned and planned. What is the Government's explanation of this matter? The Portuguese economy has grown, but at the end of 2022 we have more than 40,000 unemployed than in the same period of 2021. I repeat : than in the same period of 2021! We don't talk about seasonality. The annual figures of the population employed do not correspond to those numbers which Mr Minister mentioned. They correspond, yes, to less than half of that value which the Minister has announced. Finally, the economy has grown, but there is increasing imbalance in the distribution of income, with wages and pensions to lose purchasing power every day... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u101	...and the profits of large economic groups grow exponentially. The results presented until the third quarter of 2022 by these large economic groups are to demonstrate this. Lacking to know the results of the fourth quarter, the last quarter of the year, the already known results exceed the total profits of the previous year only in the nine months of 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u103	Mr Minister, the analysis he presented in this debate on the situation and prospects of the Portuguese economy reflects an interesting portrait of the country, and especially interesting about what he reveals about the Government's point of view. It is that, when the Minister tells us about all the wealth created, about millionaire revenues recorded in 2022 in the economy, we heard the figures he referred to: EUR 2 billion in the footwear, EUR 6 billion in textiles and clothing, EUR 20 billion in metal mechanics and machinery, EUR 22 billion in tourism, an absolute record. But while you are celebrating with all these millions, the question that the CFP is asking, in this debate, is: where is this money going?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u105	So where's that wealth going? It is that this wealth was neither going to the one who created it, because it is the work that creates wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u106	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u107	And the workers of this country are creating this wealth and are impoverishing. That is why they go out to the streets, in businesses and workplaces, in the public and private sectors, in this struggle that is happening today, from north to south of the country, and from here we greet. [[PCP applause.]] For the concrete life of the vast majority of people, what does not exist is growth, the loss of purchasing power, the loss of real wages, and the growth remains for the bosses — such bosses who systematically tell us that it is not possible or sustainable to increase wages. Mr President, today is indeed an approach which is essentially the same as he brought to the Committee on Economic Affairs last day 17, where we have indeed raised the same issue. At that time, if you remember, Mr Minister said two things. First of all, he said that inequalities and problems in the distribution of wealth are a reality peculiar to capitalism — which is entirely true! — and, secondly, said that the matter of which the Ministry of Economic Affairs is concerned is the creation of wealth rather than the distribution of wealth. I would like to remind the Minister that the distribution of wealth is not a matter of existentialism or poverty alleviation measures. The distribution of wealth is a central issue of economic policy and development models.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u109	It is deeply worrying that, in the face of the situation in the country, the government demonstrates, with this clarity, the affirmation and defense of this model of low wages, which we have already experienced in the past and which we do not want to return to. Mr. Minister spoke of the increase in the minimum wage. Where is the rise in the minimum wage, in view of the cost of living that makes people's lives in hell? Oh, my God! But the big problem is the general increase in wages, in fact, is the broader issue of the distribution of wealth and the refusal of this model which is imposing on us, not in theory but in practice, low wages and social backwardness, which it is necessary to overcome once and for all, so that we are not with this policy of exploitation and impoverishment, supposedly more to the left than ever. That is why it is necessary to reverse this path and this economic policy that the Government is implementing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u110	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u111	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I believe that the issues he raises are all very relevant and very profound. When he said that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has, above all, in its mandate, the creation of wealth does not mean that the distribution of wealth is not an absolutely fundamental problem. Therefore, in our country we have this great challenge for the future, which is to use economic growth and economic development to promote social justice and, in terms of wages, to have a better redistribution. We already have the indication of such a measure in the State budget for 2023, which is already in progress, which is support in the IRC (tax on income of natural persons ), an increase of about 50 % of the wage cost for companies that increase wages 5, 1 % or above, and this is also linked to the ability of companies to show that they increase their average wage and decrease the wage gap that exists in companies, i.e. reduce inequalities. But, as you say, and very well, I think this is a big issue for the future, which we all have to discuss,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u112	It's for the present!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u113	... because the economy has to develop, but it is fundamental, in order to create a cohesive and just society, that there is this distribution of wealth. I would just like to tell the honourable Member that in 2022, the agreement that was concluded with the social partners and with the UGT ( General Workers'Union ) was very important. Why? Because this agreement, if it is to be seen, clearly establishes a path to the future, in terms of the increase in wages. by 2026, wages will increase by more than 20 %. Therefore, that is what is set out in the agreement. We already have clear evidence of that. The minimum wage, as I told you last year, rose by 6 %, clearly below inflation. Therefore, you are right when you say that workers and families were somehow affected by inflation, which reached the gigantic dimension that reached,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u114	So the essential goods are not spoken!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u115	... but the expected increase to 2023 of the minimum wage is 7, 8 %. I am one of the people who deeply believe in that extraordinary formulation of French philosopher Georges Bataille, when he said that work is the foundation of man. It was for the work that the human species emancipated itself from its animal condition and it is a fundamental factor for civilization. Therefore, we must give full attention to the questions of work, not only of the minimum wage, but of the average wage. I also draw attention here to the fact that from 2015 until the end of 2022 the minimum wage in Portugal has increased by 50 %. We've never had an increase in this size.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u116	I hope we don't get so fast again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u117	The minimum wage increased by 50 % and the average wage increased by about 29 %. Therefore, these factors give some confidence to continue this path. In terms of the wage mass, as I said in 2022, the figures indicate that it was 11 % higher. Clearly, we have problems in sectors, we have dissatisfaction with some sectors of the population and some workers. I also agree with the honourable Member when he says that it is the workers — and I would add that the entrepreneurs, together — who create wealth. This is what we like to see in the country, as it already exists in many companies: a community between workers and entrepreneurs, in which entrepreneurs themselves understand that the well-being of workers, competitive wages and access to social services and health insurance and medical insurance are absolutely vital to have a much fairer, much more cohesive and much more forward-looking country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u118	Now it's time to speak to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To this end, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we already know that the Minister shares with the right the idea that the State is not a good shareholder. I have said it once, and today you have repeated it in this debate. But the Government that Mr. Minister integrates told the country that the TAP was strategic, that the TAP was leading national exports and that it should therefore be nationalized and saved from bankruptcy to which the private shareholder had condemned it, which is also proof that the private shareholder is not a great guarantee of good management. Mr. Minister, the change in government position with regard to TAP is not understood, but less it is understood that two ministers of the Government of the Republic, Mr. Minister of Economy and Mr. Minister Fernando Medina, go to Spain, with the Spanish flag behind it, to the Spanish press that it would be good for Iberia to buy TAP. You will have to understand that no one accepts this position, because the Portuguese State injected EUR 3, EUR 2 billion into the TAP and because we know that on the day the TAP is sold to a Spanish company, the Lisbon hub disappears and therefore disappears the strategic interest of the TAP. The Minister has already said here that the sale to Iberia has not been promoted, only to find more candidates for the privatisation process. I accept this explanation as good, I am against privatization in any way and the Left Block will maintain that position. But my question is this: after the State has injected EUR 3, EUR 2 billion to maintain the national strategic position, do you think giving TAP to Iberia protects the national interest? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u120	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u121	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, on the question of the State being a good or bad shareholder, said that the State was not a good shareholder for a company like Efacec, and very likely also in relation to TAP, but these are my views. We cannot dissociate from here the question of the role of the State. We need a state that is a service provider and that is an shareholder of many sectors, especially in the area of education, the health area, the business sector of the state, so we need a state that is also a regulator. Therefore, speaking about the characteristics of the State would give a great debate, but we cannot have an advanced society without having a strong and effective social state. As far as your question about Iberia is concerned, I want to tell you that I particularly believe that this is not a good solution. At this time, Iberia is trying to attract the maximum interest in the TAP so that the public money that has been invested in some way is recovered or at least part of that money. Therefore, the privatisation process was the government that decided and announced, it is ongoing and it is up to me, when I am in the various countries, to attract the largest number of interested parties to our airline. If we have a proposal from Iberia, such as Lufthansa, as from other companies, and the process is competitive, we will most likely have a more beneficial way out for this entire file. But, as you know, the file is not managed by me and I didn't like to make many comments about TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u122	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, to whom I give the floor, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u123	Mr President, thank you for your statement. Mr Minister, this time I respect your will and change the subject by asking a second question on a subject which is not new. Mr President, you think, eventually, that this is a matter of great importance. There are even those who say that I have an obsession with poorly attributed tax benefits, but I think it's my job and duty as an MP, and so here you go. On 10 November 2022 the Minister said, from the same place where he is now, the following: "The reformulation to be made in SIFIDE is to eliminate indirect investments, i.e. funds and venture capital funds, because that is where there was abuse. Do not keep on seeking. ” The amendment legislation to SIFIDE was handed over to the Assembly of the Republic and we found that indirect investments, i.e. funds continue to have access to SIFIDE. I would therefore like to ask what the Minister has done to withdraw from the position he has defended before the Members here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u124	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u125	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, thank you very much for your question. Mrs. Member, I don't think you have any obsession,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u126	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u127	... since it is up to Members to monitor everything the government does, and it is clear that we are always concerned about the application of public money. Now, what happens is that, as the General Finance Inspectorate has detected, there were about 3 million euros that were misused under the SIFIDE, precisely through indirect investments. As for the discussions we have in the government, there is a forum, so we do not have all the same opinions, we have to discuss them, express them, and then there must be a decision. And when I saw these numbers, I realized that they were really in favour of having some restraint in terms of indirect investments. As the honourable Member knows and investigates this, there are clearly many funds that have double benefits. In the discussion, what was understood, and it was the final position that prevailed, was that limitations would be introduced to the funds. For example, they cannot have business between themselves, are excluded from many of these investments, and there are situations in which the double benefit is fully monitored. In fact, the General Financial Inspection makes the ANI a whole set of recommendations to monitor the processes and see the adequacy of the funds, so I can say that 25 audits are currently being carried out today and about 13 of them are exactly about the funds. We have by the end of the year the plan to run these 40 audits and, therefore, with what was approved in the Assembly of the Republic, we believe that the system can function and minimize what Mrs. Deputy has identified and that it was a great concern, which are exactly the double benefits and the money misused. Therefore, we must always act in consonance and see the results, hoping that they are results that will allow us to completely limit and ban the double benefit, especially what some funds did, which was to abuse the instrument that existed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u128	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u129	Mr President, I have identified Mr Minister, I have identified Mr Minister, I have identified the General Inspection of Finance and what is true is that the Government has announced that the funds would no longer receive this tax benefit, which is indeed a State aid, but it maintains itself, knowing that the pressure of the funds was immense and that the Government has given in to that pressure. But the Minister mentioned ANI, already mentioned here as director of the ANI, I do not want to discuss whether or not it is purging, but I want to understand some of the charges the former director makes, in particular the latter in relation to the funds. What the director says in the letter of resignation is that the legislation amending the SIFIDE did not go through the agency running the SIFIDE. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether it is true that the legislative amendments to SIFIDE, which is a tax benefit managed by ANI, did not go through the agency or the director, regardless of the positions the director could have on them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u130	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u131	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I can assure you that the ANI, and the President of the ANI, have participated in the entire process, have made suggestions and have always been together, has been informed. I, personally, have always had an excellent relationship with the President of the ANI and, in this particular case, because the ANI is the body that monitors and monitors the application of SIFIDE. So all of this has been taken into account, including in the final decision itself. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs is present here, who, if you wish, can later share everything that has been done, as well as the interaction that has existed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u132	Again, I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u133	Mr President, Minister, I would now take advantage of other points in the letter of resignation from the President of the ANI, which say that the 2023 business plan has not been approved. I ask who had the responsibility to approve, if it was Mr Minister, and why he did not approve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u134	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u135	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the business plan for 2023 was actually not approved and was presented by the President of the ANI. He was in equation between the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Science and Technology, so the ANI is protected by both ministries, so we would make a short-term decision. We were just analyzing the SIFIDE issues, the recommendations that were being made about changing the management means within the AMI, what was needed, we were considering everything to see whether or not this is reflected in the plan of activities itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u136	We now move on to the intervention of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u137	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the honourable Members. Members of the Government here present. Mr Minister, in the same way as we don't want anyone to be cutting hands, neither do we want anyone to wash their hands for this instability that has been experienced and how it can affect the various institutions. We have already seen this instability affect the Portuguese Development Bank, the Minister has already spoken about it, but still in relation to the ANI, we cannot fail to ask him some questions, because more than personal relations, it is important to understand why the delay in non-approval of the ANI's forecast documents, until it has a crucial role in the operationalization and monitoring of SIFIDE. On the other hand, even with regard to the application of the PRR and its implementation, we know that it is not in its own right, but the PRR cannot be a missed opportunity for the Portuguese economy. It would be absolutely disastrous for the country to leave this opportunity aside, so in that sense, I would like the Minister to explain to us what is actually being done in some areas. We have identified that there is a failure with regard to the green economy and the transition which is essential because in the PRR there are only three areas with planned investments — health, sea and industry — that mention the associated SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals ). However, there are important areas within your Ministry that do not identify these objectives that aim to achieve and speak about, for example, the bio-economics and business or business environment. The Court of Auditors has already criticised the Government for the same reason. Therefore, Minister, I wonder when the Government and its Ministry will indicate which Sustainable Development Goals the sectoral measures of the RPP will achieve. On the other hand, there is also a failure at the origin of the PRR, which we hope will be corrected in the current review, and which is linked to the lack of estimate of the impact of each of the PRR investments, in particular by aligning this investment with the principles of taxonomy and green taxation. I ask you, Minister, whether you are available to disseminate this data and whether these failures are actually identified, whether they will be corrected and when.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u138	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u139	Mr President, you have raised a whole range of questions, so I will try to see if I forget any. On the issue of ANI and approval, I explained first why the activity plan had not yet been approved, to see if we will also change something in the management system exactly to monitor the application of SIFIDE. I would just like to stress that we are already in the process at this time about 25 audits on the implementation of the funds. Even today, there was a meeting with Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and the administration of ANI to see all projects and programmes, and what I can assure is that everyone is under control and running. What the honourable Member has to say about the PRR and what she says about the green economy and bio-economics is absolutely crucial for the future. I am one of the people who believes that the transformation of the Portuguese economy will take place through the bio-economics, the circular economy and, therefore, are packages that we are preparing, including we will also do a task force in the Ministry to follow all these transformations. We already have many institutions and entities working on these matters in the country and, therefore, what we need is to create this national impulse to make the transformation. This will be linked with a great initiative that we will do to see the 17 ODS and how the country is positioned, involving all civil society, all entities, parties, authorities, regional centres, companies. Let's see exactly how we stand and what we can do more in terms of public policies, to underline these transformations and give a clear direction to the future. On the analysis of the impact, we have already begun to discuss, because basically we will all be judged, at the government level, by the impact that all these programmes will have on the Portuguese economy and society. So we are looking at the type of indicators that will be needed, some analyses that are being made, but they are general analyses, and there are others from the European Commission. We want to have a set of indicators to see the impact at the level of the territory, territorial cohesion, the impact that each region has and how this can be transformative for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u140	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u141	Mr. President, good afternoon to all and to all, Mr. Secretary of State, Minister, Minister, I read with attention your interview, in which, among other things, said that we need to pay more attention to the industrial polygon, Braga, Guimarães, Barcelos, Family. I like this focus, because it seems to me that this is precisely where we can look for a kind of inclusive productivity in our country, which goes from family businesses to universities, which connects textiles to nanotechnology. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] in this sense, I would like to ask about two other regions where we need strategies, and one of them is the region of Ria de Aveiro. With the car industries that already exist there and thinking about the next batteries—after lithium, the batteries of the future are those of sodium—there is the possibility of using the natural resources of the Aveiro River, which are not currently being used, to create an electric car pole there? The second region I wanted to focus on is that of the Setúbal peninsula. We have now approved administrative measures that allow us to inject more European funds into the Setúbal peninsula. The question is: for what? When an Autoeuropa is not on the Setúbal Peninsula, what are the future industries and those that can now create knowledge, also taking advantage of the extraordinary links between universities and industries there? Is robotics, for example, an area of the future for that industry? I would also like to put another question to you about the regional approach and the contempt that energy votes for the inside and its workers. We already know that energy does not want to pay taxes that would enable regional development in areas such as Miranda, in areas where they extract energy from the rest of the country. Today, with other Members, for example, Mr Duarte Alves, Mr José Soeiro, we went to the MAAT ( Art Museum, Architecture and Technology ), to the prestigious museum with which EDP presents itself to the world from Lisbon, and we found workers who have 9 hour shifts with 15 minutes to lunch. They are young polyglots, trained, qualified, who are, yes, those who are forced to emigrate, and will not emigrate in search of any tax advantage in foreign countries; they will emigrate because they are not in the frameworks. The question is: do these companies only have tax bills and pancakes on their backs? How can we force them to treat their workers in a way that gives these young people a future?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u142	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u143	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, thank you very much for all your questions, which are very interesting - we could actually spend the rest of the afternoon discussing them, because they really are linked to the future of the country. On the question of quadrilateral, I think it is very important that we have a strong industrial base there. This morning I was in touch with that region to define what is the strategy, what are the public policies and how we can transform. He raised the issue of Aveiro and, above all, the connection to the new generation of batteries, which may be sodium batteries. We have at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto researchers, one of them of an international dimension that has been researching this for a long time. We have a mobilising agenda that is dedicated to this type of battery and we also have lithium batteries. Our intention here — and I think it should not be the state or government to appoint or choose champions — is to give the options. Therefore, these are consortium initiatives that have developed work and are working in these areas, and what we are doing, because we have a great concern with our automotive sector, especially in making the transition to electric mobility, is talking to Stellantis, who will build an electric car in Viseu, and with Volkswagen, which we are trying to attract, because it is absolutely vital to follow the transformation of the entire industry of components for cars around. We also want to sit down in the country the battery chain, to have access to value chains, which can be very important for the future. For the Setúbal Peninsula, he mentioned, and well, the new legislation and the possibility of attracting projects. The Setúbal peninsula was very damaged, because it was inserted into the large metropolitan area, so it had no access to these investments, and I think we will now have more investments. We must solidify all that we have in Setúbal, from the port itself and in all that area, we can develop industries that then favour green shipping with green hydrogen, green ammonia and, above all, methanol, which are the fuels of the future for all maritime traffic, because we cannot forget that the current fuels are of the most polluting we have on the planet and that affect the state of the sea. So we believe that this row will be absolutely decisive. Then we have everything that has to do with the submarine cables. Portugal will be one of the major submarine cable centers and we are trying to sit across the Setúbal peninsula the data processing centers and there are already a few...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u144	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u145	Let's see if we can do it. On energy, I think it is the great work that we have to do, not only at the level of administrations and workers, to try to change the situation, in the sense of entrepreneurs themselves and shareholders themselves, to understand that it is essential to have a good distribution of wealth within companies and to improve wages, but also to create fiscal policies that stimulate this transformation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u146	We now pass on to the time reserved for the Socialist Party. To speak, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u147	Now they're just gonna be hard questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u148	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of an hour and a half of the debate, it seems clear to me that there is a conclusion that we have to draw, and it was so obvious that, let me even use the most colloquial expression, all the opposition has fled that neither the devil of the cross of the good results of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u149	Which ones? Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u150	And that simply means one thing: the opposition does not want to discuss the subjects of people, of Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u151	The economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u152	... what concerns, in fact, the Portuguese and they want to continue to discuss things that, being important, are not really relevant to the interest of Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u153	So, Minister, it seems that this is the first conclusion. But there are other conclusions from some interventions. I wanted to start with what I think is also relevant. Mr Ventura is no longer in the Chamber, but before the proclamations he has made and after the explanations by the Minister for Economic Affairs, it seems clear to me that Mr Ventura will not have enough members for so many assurances that have been further dismantled by the Minister for Economics here in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Another note has to do with what the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto. It is nothing new, Minister, we already know that the good news of the Portuguese economy is a horror for the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u154	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u155	Moreover, the Liberal Initiative does not recognize any good indicator of the Portuguese economy. Notice this, Minister : this is so much so that Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has dared to say in this debate that the indicators of the INE (National Institute of Statistics) and Eurostat are propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u156	They're technical data!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u157	This is unbelievable! How is it possible for a member of a party who wants to be an alternative to say in this debate that the indicators of INE and Eurostat are propaganda? We understand: the economy to grow much, to grow more than you expected; exports to grow much and to exceed all the records;... [[CH and IL protests.]] ... foreign direct investment to demonstrate that this government, which you accused of being left-handed, which did not provide, which would not give investors confidence, is attracting a lot of foreign direct investment; and research and development to grow more than ever grew. Therefore, all this is indeed good news that you have fled that neither the devil of the cross, as I said. But I want to finish, looking at the PSD, because the PSD also escaped from everything and brought TAP. And I brought TAP these days exactly because...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u158	It's Efacec!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u159	Mr President, the Minister explained very well what was going to happen to Efacec. Now, there's something we didn't know about, which is whether the PSD wanted, or whether to close Efacec, because they didn't say that either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let's go back to TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u160	You better not talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u161	You don't want to talk about TAP, but I'm going to talk about TAP. Let us go back to TAP, Mr. [[PSD protests.]] This week we learned something incredible about, and about which the honourable Member kept a grave silence on your bench: on 12 November 2015 — I think you remember that — already at a time when your Government Programme had been plunged here in the Assembly of the Republic, in any office that no one knows until today, at the closing of the night, at the twenty-fifth hour, they signed a contract to privatize the TAP. The following day they privatized TAP Mr. Neeleman and the following day Mr. Neeleman bought 53 planes, not on behalf of the TAP, but on behalf of a company of Mr. Neeleman. It was 53 planes! After that, the next day, TAP became the buyer of these 53 planes and, on the other hand, gave up 12 planes that it had purchased. In the face of this mix, which no one fully understands, there were many millions involved, Mr. Deputies, many millions involved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u162	That was seven years ago! Seven years! Is that what you're talking about now?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u163	I want to tell you one thing: let's talk about governments that kick public interest, because these millions did not come to the TAP or to the public interest. It was good that you would clarify this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u164	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u165	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I think you have underlined, and well, the good performance of the Portuguese economy. The figures and facts are unforgettable, and I therefore believe that, in view of this, all the catastrophic rhetoric collapses when the facts are what they are and the numbers are what they are. Therefore, our message is the following: from what exists, from this performance, to work with everyone; to build large collaborative platforms and, above all, with regard to the Ministry of Economics, businesses and the productive system; to apply everything we still have to apply within the framework of PT 2020, which will end at the end of this year; and to launch and develop all PRR projects, particularly the mobilization agendas, the decarbonization, the 4.0 companies and also the projects that have to do with trade and services and digital accelerators and digital neighbourhoods, since the digitization of trade and services will be fundamental to the future of the Portuguese economy. It is bet on that dimension that we are, and we believe that this transformation will take place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u166	Mr José Rui Cruz of the Socialist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u167	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, in fact, the proof that the government is on its way is that the great problem of this country is the ANI, which is an agency that, until a few days ago, most Portuguese didn't even know it existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u168	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u169	It's proof that we're all on the right track. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u170	Don't pass certificates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u171	But the opposition is not strictly interested in the performance of the Portuguese economy, on the contrary, it does not even talk about it. The opposition is far less likely to know that in 2023 Portuguese public debt will fall to 110 % of GDP. This is a fact that does not strictly concern anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u173	The opposition is of little interest to know that, compared to 2015 with 2022, there are fewer than 734 000 Portuguese at risk of poverty. This data does not strictly mean anything to the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition also does not strictly interest anything to know that the minimum wage at the end of this legislation will be €900 and today it is €760, when in 2015 it was €505. This fact also does not strictly matter to this House and to the opposition. [[PSD protests.]] The opposition is also of no interest to knowing - but it is of interest to the Portuguese and that is why we are here - that the employed population was in 2015 of 4 million and 540 thousand people and the employed population today is of more than 4 million and 900 thousand people. This is of interest to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u174	And didn't the average life expectancy grow? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u175	But it is also interesting for Portuguese to know that the unemployed population in 2015 at the time of right-wing governance was 618 000 people and today the unemployed population is 342 000 people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u176	And the population didn't grow? Oh, my God! And the ones who left, the ones who emigrated? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u177	No one knows this data? The right doesn't know this data? [[CH protests.]] The only data of interest today, here, were an agency called ANI and an announced mutilation of the leader of the Arrival. [[PS laughter.]] Mr. Minister of Economics, with regard to the PRR, whose numbers are public...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u178	Public and shameful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u179	...and, therefore, I will not be here to exhaust the numbers of its implementation, which are published, but I would like to point out that the total number of notices goes to EUR 11, EUR 3 billion, the total number of applications goes to more than 140 000 submitted and more than 90 000 approved, to an approved total of EUR 11, EUR 5 billion, and Portugal has already received more than EUR 3, EUR 3 billion. I wonder what Mr Minister, given the whole of the circumstances we are living in, can you tell us about the development of the PRR? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u180	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u181	Mr President, Mr José Rui Cruz, thank you very much for your questions. I believe that the facts you mentioned about the performance of the Portuguese economy are inevitable. I would just like to point out that this performance is achieved when we had a difficult year of 2022, with inflation, with the consequences of the war in Ukraine and with high energy prices—in fact, as I have already mentioned here on 26 August last year, the gas price reached €339 per MW/h and today is 80% below that value. Therefore, these facts related to everything that you have mentioned, that is, with the recovery of wages, the recovery of wages and income, the agreement that has been made with the social partners and the very clear goals that are there, to increase even more than 20 % of wages, the history, when we compare 2015 to 2022 — because the forecasts are made to be denied by reality — all this leads me to point out that what matters is what is done, and what is done is an unprecedented increase of 50 % of the national minimum wage by 2015 until 2022, an increase of more than 26 % in the average wage and the consequences that this is having. But we know that there are still families with difficulties, and it's for them that we're working on. He mentioned — and well — the number of people who are no longer exposed to poverty, and 2022 was also the year when about 300 000 people left the poverty line. So we recovered from the pandemic scourge. This should not make us glad, because we must continue to work for the millions who are still below the poverty line, and that is what the government is focused on. But the path followed has had a consistent, consolidated path that, I think, will be expanded. About the PRR, Mr. Deputy gave the numbers. I think there are people in the country who think that we are on December 31, 2026, but we are not ; we are on February 9, 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u182	2022? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u183	2023, I'm sorry. All the planning is for us to run the PRR. The Government has created the PlanAPP - Center for Planning, Policy and Public Administration Prospective Skills, because for many years, in this country, planning issues have been relegated to the background. Today, we have planning functions and articulated work. We had planned and planned to run 8 % of the PRR in 2022, and it was executed. We're running up to 32 % by the end of this year, and it's going to be executed. All programmes are going, although some with more difficulties, such as decarbonisation, in which I can tell you, there is a delay, which we are recovering, due to the change in paradigm, since it is a new thing that we are doing with companies and that will take its course. But we are fully committed to achieving a great deal of benefit in the implementation of the European Funds. I think the country has never failed, and it won't fail. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u184	Mr Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the well-being of the Portuguese is inextricable from the behaviour of our economy. There is a close relationship between a healthy business fabric and a population with quality of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u186	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u187	Yes, sir. That is why this government and the previous governments have taken measures since 2015 to give companies conditions to grow, to improve wages, to improve their own capital,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u188	There's nothing in the supermarket!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u189	...to bet on innovation and development, which are so important for the development of the country. It is these companies that contribute not only to the growth of the economy, to take the name of Portugal further, as well as to the good results we have obtained in exports, but also to keep the levels of employment that we currently have, which enable us to improve the wages of our workers and give better conditions of reconciliation between professional, family and personal life to our workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u190	You're insulting people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u191	This was important through the agreement reached in the social consultation, which led the companies to the way we want to continue to follow, so that they can see the reduction of their taxes by acting actively in the development of the country and improving the living conditions of the Portuguese. In the face of a pandemic, a war, inflation, an increase in energy costs, we did not deviate from this path. We have more curves, of course, but also more support to the companies that need the most, and we are more aware of these difficulties and challenges, as Mr Minister mentioned. At the same time, we helped families while maintaining commitment to the increase in national minimum wage. Yes, because this is a commitment of the Socialist Party assumed since 2015, that which the PSD has always rejected and which today seems to forget, but we do not forget, we meet and we will continue to fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u192	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u193	To this increase we added savings in passes, reduction in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), limitation of income increase, reduction in fuel, electricity and gas, increase in family allowance, free daycare, guarantee for children, in a constant fight against child poverty. We have the greatest ever increase in pensions, we have support for young people at a difficult time in their lives, and we have also had extraordinary support. The Liberal Initiative spoke about cosmetic measures. Mrs. Members, ask the 8 million adults and children whether these measures have had an impact on their lives or not. in this debate, on the side of the PSD, we heard Mr Jorge Mendes mention that there has been a different interpretation between the Portuguese and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u194	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u195	We had Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira speaking on a date — 2 July 2020 — and asking when the Portuguese nightmare ends.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u196	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u197	I'll finish. Mr. President. Mrs. Members, the nightmare ended on November 26, 2015 and the Portuguese strengthened - and proved - on January 30, 2022, giving an absolute majority to the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I ask you whether these measures have also been propaganda or are they even the reality felt by companies and Portuguese and that they promote their quality of life? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u198	I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u199	Mr President, Mrs Vera Braz, I think she has announced the set of measures that have been taken and have had an effect on the economy and families. I recall only that overall in 2022, the set of support provided to businesses and families amounted to EUR 6400 million. We had a large family support package of EUR 2400 million; we had a EUR 1600 million package for companies; we had around EUR 1500 million only in aid to contain the price of fuels, and that was also clear, in addition to all other measures that were designed to contain energy prices. The effect that this has had is very important. That is why in 2022 we had some basic effect on the growth and performance of the Portuguese economy, due to the issue that came before. But we have also had — and we must very seriously recognise — a significant contribution of domestic consumption and net external demand, especially at the level of services, tourism and other industries. So I think these were significant packages, which had their impact and were designed for it. It is up to us now to monitor the development of the situation and, above all, to have the following in mind: the social state cannot go beyond the well-being of its citizens. It must be close to the citizens, and they must feel that the state is present and, in situations of crisis or calamity, helps them. This is also what happened in the fires in the greenhouse of the Star, with measures that have been taken and are already being implemented. I think it's from here that we have to move on. We must always be humble in order to measure policies and correct them when necessary, but at the same time we must try to work in partnership with all sectors of society and draw solutions that really enhance people's well-being. If we have a reduction in inflation, with the clear indication of the reduction in underlying inflation and the reduction in energy prices, and if we improve the situation of breakages in international logistics chairs, which are a factor that has contributed much to inflationary pressure—there is an index that we are following very closely, the Baltic Dry Index, which concerns the situation of logistics chains, and it also shows that in recent months we have had a much more comfortable situation—I think that, from the combination of these factors and the external environment we have in Europe, it is very possible that 2023 is a year that exceeds those expectations we have had for a time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u200	Let's start the second round now. this time, the initiative belongs, firstly, in the order of the interventions, to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. To that end, I give the floor to Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Mr Minister, let me tell you that I noticed with some disappointment how you did not respond in the first round to Mr Ventura. [[L. Protests.]] I can tell you something. In my land, there is a saying that characterizes it: "It is better to fall in grace than to be funny. Do not keep on seeking. ” You were in a state of grace until the State Budget, when the Minister of Finance publicly opposed it and won it. Funny being is a role that doesn't suit you, and you have to recognize it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] His initial speech also corroborated what I just said about being funny, because he talks about a growth in which the Portuguese economy seems to be German, Italian or French.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u202	These are very good too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u203	Minister, that's not true! We are on the tail of Europe, we are a disgrace within Europe, within the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ), and you want to pass an intellectual minority certificate to the Portuguese, which we do not accept!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u205	Minister 6, 7% of GDP growth, you say. It's true, those are the numbers. But how will you explain to the Portuguese that the recovery of the national economy in the post-pandamy period was 11. the slowest in the European Union?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u206	In 27 countries!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u207	In 27 countries, we went to 11. the slowest economy! How do you explain that the IMD ( Institute for Management Development ) says that the labour market in Portugal is the best in Europe and how does it explain — this was the first question — that the government, in percentage terms, to attract foreign investment, is equal to 0 %? Repeat: 0%. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u208	The Bureau has indicated that the honourable Members will now respond. State Secretaries. [[Pause.]] After all, he is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u209	Mr President, I am sorry, but the question has been addressed to me. Then, if Mr. Secretary of State would also like to comment, he will do so. Mr Filipe Melo, I don't like to be funny, but when the things of « funnyism» come from your bench, the thing is very difficult to accept. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u210	You've had a lot of fun!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u211	The honourable Member says that our country is a disgrace. This is a mantra that has nothing to do with reality. Do you know that in 2022 we were able to attract 2, 4 billion euros of foreign direct investment? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u212	Mr. Minister should go to the streets, talk to the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u213	Mr President, do you know that in 2022 these 2, 4 billion euros of investment, 19 % came from the United States, 15 % from the United Kingdom, 15 % from Switzerland, 15 % from the Nordic countries and 13 % from Germany?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u214	But for what sectors?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u215	Mr. Member, I have seen a Nordic consortium that wants to invest in Figueira da Foz, in offshore wind, which is one of the major projects we have. Mr President, for a country of shame, attracting this quality of investors is really very significant. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr President, the country of shame is, at this time, the most advanced countries in the world in connection with submarine cables.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u216	Hey, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u217	Yesterday, the largest company in the world that produces submarine cables signaled the intention of investing in Portugal, and we will have a sustainable submarine cable production center for this century. Mr. Deputies, things are completely different from what's going on in your brain. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] His brain is encased in an ideological narrative, which is a kind of barrier to reality. You don't see the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u218	Me? You must be talking to Mortagua!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u219	The reality is much broader, much more different than you see. And that's what the future will prove. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u220	Then there are those who have no brains!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u221	Mr Filipe Melo continues to use the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u222	Mr President, Minister, locked up must be you, since you fell into the socialist web.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u223	Well seen, well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u224	I'll tell you why. You have a President of IAPMEI, who is only responsible for 14 % of the RPP funds, who resigns. And who does you put there? A mine engineer who happened to pass through Partex, where you were the administrator, and who was in the Ministry of Economics. This is the socialist web, and this, yes, is a shame! Reaffirm, it is a shame, say Mr. Minister what you say! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But I'm telling you more. Do you know why it's a shame? What you came here to say about the Nordic investment in Figueira da Foz, and everything else, is worth zero for the Portuguese. Those intentions are worth zero! You explain to the Portuguese how the minimum order under their management grows 5, 4 % and inflation increases 7, 6 %. What justification do you have for the Portuguese? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u225	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u226	Mr. President, Mr. Filipe Melo, I note your conceptual scheme. I've named for the IAPMEI a person I've known for many years. It is extremely competent, it is a first-water manager, it has made projects in several countries of the world, it is very conceptual, and the fact that I know it disqualifies it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u227	He's your friend!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u228	You see this reasoning, which is absolutely extraordinary: Mr Felipe Melo, because he knows the other Members, disqualifies the other people he knows. Where are we going? Oh, my God! [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr. Member, is this the country we want to build? And it's with that widespread suspicion that you put on top of everyone, where you just know, just don't know what, and we're already condemning the man? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Sir, we don't live in the Middle Ages! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, we don't live in the Middle Ages. Judgments in public squares—including in this city—with accusations to the people, with stones, ended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u229	It's all serious people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u230	It is a fact of civilization in a rule of law, and we have an obligation to defend the rule of law. As a member of this government, I will do so - and I am sure that most of the Assembly of the Republic will do so too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u231	That's it, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u232	We can discuss, Mr President, and diverge in any way you want, within respect. But for God’s sake, it does not start to qualify and insult people. That's, yeah, it's embarrassing. That's embarrassing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u233	I didn't insult anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. Mr Filipe Melo, from the UK, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u235	Mr President, Minister, you will excuse me for telling you, but what you said about me is false! I didn't judge anyone. Much less... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u236	I know this is annoying. Minister, I haven't judged anyone, because I don't know the person in question. However, the Minister finally said that customerism and friendship are tolerated, accepted and very well accepted. And tell you what you want about it, I say this is socialism at its best. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Minister, let's change a little something. Since you don't answer me, I have to ask you another way. How do you explain, within your rhetoric and narrative, this news from the Newspaper, that the purchasing power has stagnated for 20 years? The speaker showed the news he mentioned. Is this the advance of the economy you are talking about? 20-year-old values? Oh, my God! If Mr. Minister knows how to respond fully to this, I would like to thank him. Then, once you so much defend socialism, having already attacked the right several times, which was not usual to you—at least when you were party leader you didn't—I ask you...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u237	The honourable Member knows the history of the entire life of the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u238	You guys are very nervous, but have a little calm there! How was he asking: what is the answer to the fact that the higher tax burden on work, during the period of governance between 1995 and 2023, is with Antonio Costa? He's here! The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. It wasn't with Durão Barroso, it wasn't with Santana Lopes, it wasn't with Passos Rabbit, it was with António Costa. Explain, Minister! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u239	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u240	Mr President, Mr Filipe Melo, we finally have some questions about the area of the economy. I was already freaking out! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u241	You think this is the circus, but it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u242	On purchasing power, we must not forget that the inflationist phenomenon has greatly conditioned people's purchasing power. The wage increases themselves that existed were below inflation, which obviously also conditioned purchasing power. That is why I say that, from the moment we put the change in terms of the inflation trajectory — we hope that it will happen, there are many uncertainties, but, if it happens, especially with the indications that come from the underlying inflation — it will start to feel. In any case, we must not forget that 2022 marks not only the agreement with the social partners to improve wages, but also everything that has been done at the level of Public Administration. It also marks, with the State budget for 2023, all that has been introduced in terms of wage valuation, the revision of the IRS steps itself and the reduction of the 2. Step. It marks many other aspects related to the ability of companies to increase their wages and reduce the gap within businesses through the support granted in IRC (the income tax of the public) with the increase of 50 % of the wage cost. I therefore believe that these measures can contribute to the future. On the tax burden, I do not know the chart you presented, Mr. The only thing I can tell you is that the tax burden is discussed a lot in our country, but the tax burden in Portugal is, on average, around 37 %. In the European Union, it is around 42 %. I repeat, 42 % is the European average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr. Deputy, it's numbers. These are numbers, of course, and are studies of the European Union indicating a rate of 37 % versus 42 %. So that's very clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u243	Mr. Filipe Melo, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u244	Mr President, Minister, is not 37 %, is 41, 3 %, with Antonio Costa. 37 % were already in the time of Durão Barroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u245	Take note! Take note!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u246	Another question, Minister. You said a little while ago that 10 000 jobs were created in Portugal. The question I want to ask you is very simple: who have these jobs been created for?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u248	It was not for qualified young people who had to emigrate in search of better working conditions. I also ask you: will this government's policy be dealt with? Are you going to let the young qualified paintings out, with enormous value, and open the door to everything that is foreign and that seeks, in Portugal, the Eldorado? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u249	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u250	Thank you very much, Mr Filipe Melo. Let me say, with all due respect, that the honourable Member must be distracted. Young unemployment in Portugal has reached the minimum for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u251	They were all out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u252	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen. I hear very carefully. Let me talk, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u253	They've emigrated!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u254	In 2012 the youth unemployment rate in Portugal was 38 %. In 2022 it is 18 %. We still have young unemployment, but it was a very significant decrease. More, the wages of young people in Portugal have increased by 40 % since 2015. So, Mr. Deputies, one way is being made. There is also in the State budget measures for young people, for young employment and, above all, to try to sitiate talent in the country, in particular by reducing the rate of IRS for young people by 50 % in the first year and then 40 %, 30 %, 30 %, 20 %. That is why, I say again, there are measures in place. We can discuss whether we are going to extend the scope of these measures—we will always be available for that—but the measures are there, the trajectory is being made and young unemployment is decreasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u255	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u256	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, if the youth unemployment rate is falling, Minister, it is because young people have emigrated from this country. That's the great truth. Again, socialism and socialists send young people to immigrate. First of all, I would like to greet the farmers of the High Alentejo who went out to the street today in Portalegre. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Thousands of them went out against socialist policies, against the socialist government. Despite being mistreated by this government, agriculture continues to generate more than EUR 4 billion in wealth to Portugal, and that, Minister, cannot say no, and is extremely important. I will not ask you, Mr Minister, by the Secretary of State of the Sea, because, by the way, you are not here today, but I will remind you that, in August, and I have already asked you this question in several hearings, Mr Minister said they had agreements with Morocco, Indonesia and India. The question I ask you—why you have never answered me and today you have no time to answer me—and what I leave in the air again is: what kind of agreements have been made with these three countries?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u258	In addition, how are these agreements being made? They've already come into force, haven't they? Today I would like to take advantage of the fact that the State of Tourism is here — which is a rare thing too — to ask you whether you do not think that qualified labour is that of our hotel schools, where we should go and look for it and not for other countries. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u259	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, to all compliance. The Minister has no time to answer, and I am therefore afraid to suggest that in the next speeches and answers he may also respond to Mr Pedro Pinto. For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u260	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the reality of numbers and facts, the reality of statistics, reject the world in which the opposition lives. This reality has even led to Eurostat and INE numbers being classified as political propaganda in this debate. This is a reality of this debate. We talked about emigration here too. Quickly, in any research, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we realized that last year we had 60 000 Portuguese who left our country. In 2013, when a particular government advised young people to leave, 120 000 Portuguese left. This is the reality of numbers, which is unforgettable. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u261	You don't advise, you force!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u262	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to what it really counts for the Portuguese. Until now, in this debate, we have heard about medieval practices and medieval games, certainly at a time when the amputation of members was possible as punishment, as democratic countries have already abolished. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] Let's get back to numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u263	to the numbers in perspective!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u264	A rate of 6, 7 % of economic growth, the largest economic growth since 1987. Even those who so much like international comparisons did not come here to deny these numbers, they just said that these data were political propaganda. Propaganda! No, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these data represent 2. the largest growth in the European Union. I want you to come here and deny it! I repeat, it's 2. the European Union's largest growth in 2022, with some quarters in which Portugal was the largest country in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about matters that concern the Portuguese and not just populism. We're talking about reducing public debt, according to data from the last 12 years. This reduction in public debt is crucial at the time of the increase in the interest rate. I ask the Minister whether this data, both from GDP and from public debt, are not crucial for Portuguese companies and to respond economically. Then I want to refer to the EUR 2, EUR 4 billion of foreign direct investment in our country in 2022. No one from the opposition came here to talk about this data. I ask the Minister what sectors we are talking about and also what economic answers can allow. We're still talking about some sectors. Tourism grew 20 %, a growth that represented EUR 22 billion in turnover. In the metalmechanics sector, it was EUR 20 billion and in the agri-food sector it was EUR 7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, in view of this data, because the opposition does not recognize that, in a difficult inflationist context, our country presents macroeconomic data which can be very positively compared with those of any European partner. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u265	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Pedro Cilinio.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u266	Mr Hugo Costa, indeed, the performance of the economy has been remarkable in many of the indicators we have identified here. Even at the level of foreign direct investment, the centres of competence and also investments in the industrial area are highlighted here, with new production units in the national territory. I would like to point out that Portuguese companies and their workers are, clearly, congratulations, since, in the sector behind the sector, they have records of growth and exports. We talked here about metalmechanics, footwear, textiles, clothing, but could add natural stone, leather, as well as cork. They all beat growth records this year. The context has not been easy, but the government has created conditions to ensure business sustainability and also to guarantee its jobs; it has helped to mitigate energy costs and has allowed companies to remain competitive and on the market. More than statistical data, these are testimonies that I have heard every day on the ground. Yesterday, in Paris, together with 70 companies in the textile and clothing sector, I heard this testimony; companies are looking forward to growth, what will happen, and the factor that differs our exports is innovation, is product sustainability. This is not just said by the companies, it is said by their customers, by their suppliers, people I talked to and that, time after time, they gave this witness. So I would like to leave this note here. It is in this commitment to innovation and sustainability that the government wants to invest and also help businesses grow so that it also continues in 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u267	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u268	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs Members: First of all, at the end of 2 hours and 11 minutes, we can talk a little about economy. And allow me, Mr Minister, to tell you that the Portuguese Parliament seems to be the only place where you can talk about economics without paying attention to mathematics. Here, everything is absolutely necessary and, therefore, we call for a small accountability, of course, democratic, of what this debate has been. And let us see, Minister, the government here has a surplus of focus, strategy and a certain direction. The opposition, in this balance, as has been customary — and is symptomatic — is presented in a debate with the government, which, it repeats, is a debate on the economic sector, and the first question you asked was about an agency. For the week, if Mr. Minister comes here, they will ask for a department and, if Mr. Minister insists on coming here, one day we will be discussing a square meter anywhere and we will be discussing everything but the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] And it is very important, Mr Minister, that you also understand one thing: it is not because of evil that the right is presented in this way, Mr Minister, it is because of despair. Imagine what it is to prepare for a debate, to confront a parliamentary group, a minister and a ministerial team that are presenting themselves in a serene way where the others win, which clarify where the others throw the confusion, which points to paths where the others are set to point their own finger. This day should even be marked not as the day when Mr Ventura lost his hand, nor the day when Mr Ventura lost his shame—because, not having her for the most reason, she cannot lose her hand—... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u269	... but as the day the right was softened with ideas and not with pride, the day the right was placed in the place with ideas and not with pride. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] And you know why I'm using this language, Minister? Because of everything we're watching here today, the only thing that's gonna stay is this language of the videos they're going to put on Facebook. And it's not with videos on Facebook, or Instagram, or TikTok that we're going to run an economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u270	But imagine one thing, Mr Minister, imagine that Mr Minister had to be in a debate to comment on a record GDP, to analyze a budget balance in improvement — 2, 4 billion euros of investment capture —, a public debt to be improved, an inflation that always leaves us with great caution, but with the satisfaction of finally seeing signs of slowdown,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u271	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u272	... and unemployment at record levels; imagine, Mr Minister, that this was all that Mr Minister had been saying to the Portuguese over the past six years and that he had to go through this door and come here with conviction to say things that clearly deny numbers and in which the right cannot truly believe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Minister, in the midst of all this dialogue we cannot lose the sympathy of what really matters. Anyone who thinks of Portugal with littleness can only reach a little Portugal. This is not even a design that separates the left from the right, separates only those who are in politics to change from those who are in politics just to pretend that they change or make a soundbit. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] So let me tell you that, in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we have no disillusionment, not letting you know that your performance today was dazzling, at least to expose the absence of an opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u273	Go, go, give him fat!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u274	But I would like to say something to you, Minister: we are anxious, because everything continues to be alarmed in the globalised world. I end with this idea: a position like ours is not satisfied with such a weak opposition. We were more ambitious, Minister, but we know one thing: the government has in itself the ethics of work and the requirement to continue to work. What is asked is that an opposition appear with another posture, but this, unfortunately, like the devil, may never appear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u275	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u276	Answer what? Oh, my God! Only if that's what I asked a little while ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u277	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your intervention and for shaping all the country's economic performance, the trajectory and the situation we have today. I believe that today's fundamental word for the country is 'trust', and trust on the basis of economic performance, based on what is happening in the various sectors of the economy. There are obviously concerns, but there is also a great deal of enthusiasm and belief that we can do better and better. We have several examples in our industry, such as the creation of technological centres, collaborative networks, the transformation of companies; we have the intensification of technological revolution, robotization, virtualization, three-dimensional printing, which is already reaching the factory floor, and really the issues are transformative. I would perhaps like to symbolize this discussion on a point that seems very important to me: we are a country that pays a lot of attention to bad things, but does not pay attention to good things. A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to visit Dielmar with Mr. Prime Minister. At this time, Dielmar has a businessman who is the most brilliant business minds we have in the country, Commander José Vilas Ferreira, who thinks very well. He recovered the company, integrated the workers, and within six months the company again reached the international markets and is prospering. We need these examples. And Mr Commander asked me to discuss with other entrepreneurs one of the aspects that I also think is one of the traps for the development of the Portuguese economy. It is that, despite all these advances, we have not been able to create global brands that have global effect and, at the level of marketing, we also have to work more and more. If you look at the Americans, they haven't created a product yet and they're already selling it everywhere. We sometimes create excellent products and we don't have that marketing and interaction capability. We must also improve there, improve the management, organisation and many areas. The question of trade and services is also under way and our Secretary of State has an agenda for competitiveness, trade and services. If there is time, I would like Mr State Secretary also to mention this, because trade and services are a significant part of our economy and fall within everything that he has listed for the transformation of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u278	To put your questions, I have the floor of Mr Jorge Botelho of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u279	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I think that it was clear from this debate that the Minister comes here to demonstrate clearly the results, the results of which are from everyone, are from the country. Obviously, the catastrophic conversation to list any bad measures does not take, because there was a very positive counterpoint on the part of the Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u280	Jorge, André's already spent all the fat, you don't have it anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u281	... based on concrete results. I would like to speak, Minister, of the tourism area.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u282	Also talk about the tolls on A22!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u283	The tourism area is the former trade book, the export of services we had in Portugal. It was an area violently attacked in the pandemic and which, fortunately, with the socialist government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u284	Yeah, yeah! It's true! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u285	... by means of a set of measures, we managed to make, with entrepreneurs and workers, a resilient area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, this sector means 20 % of GDP, it has a sales record — 22 billion euros of sales — of revenue to our economy. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I mean, Minister, this is a very important sector. And, being a very important sector, we have to recognize that we have no more tourism, we have, first, other activities that have to leverage. What Mr. Minister explained to us about the other exporting sectors gives us assurances that this country will produce wealth, will export more, will create jobs and will position itself to apply all funds...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u286	What about tourism? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u287	... that we have at our disposal — PT2020, PRR, PT2030 — with a set of measures that entrepreneurs must implement, should have the opportunity to apply. And we have to give confidence that there is security in investment, because only investment produces, only investment creates jobs and only investment is that it prevents our young people, the most qualified of all, from thinking about eventually leaving this country, because our entrepreneurs are also interested in being loyal to them. Mr Minister, I have only two questions to ask: how is the APOIR programme? What is the balance sheet of the APOIR Program, which was specifically dedicated to the tourism sector? How is the new Consolidated Line + Tourism, which was an aspiration of our tourism entrepreneurs and which, fortunately, the government, with the last regulatory order, managed to identify and publish, already being implemented? And finally training...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u288	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u289	I'm done now, Madam President. With regard to training, what is the training plan we have for this dynamic sector, which means 20% of our national GDP? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u290	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services, Nuno Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u291	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Jorge Botelho, thank you very much for your relevant question about a strategic sector for the country, which is that of tourism. In fact, the country, as shown here, has already been soberly demonstrated, on the basis of facts and numbers of credible, national and European institutions — as is the case with Eurostat — has had a remarkable growth in its economy of 6, 7 % — the second largest growth in the European Union and the largest in 35 years — and also the record in exports. In fact, one of the contributions to this growth and exports is precisely in the tourism sector. The tourism sector is the largest export economic activity in the country, represents 20 % of total exports of goods and services and has made a very important contribution to the country. This growth is due to the work of the institutions, companies and workers, and that is why we also have companies in the front line, in what policy options are. But despite this performance that has been developed by the country, by entrepreneurs, by public policies, which have favored this growth, we have the ambition to lead future tourism, and future tourism is a more sustainable, inclusive, more cohesion and more technological tourism. For that, we have five very clear priorities. A first priority is around companies. Companies are in line with tourism policy. And why? It is enough to see that, compared with Portugal 2020, between Portugal 2030 plus the PRR, we have an increase of 90 % in support of companies. But they are not just programmatic lines, they are also realisations. And Mr Botelho spoke — and very well — of the APOIAR programme. In less than a month, in the context of the Social Concertation Agreement, we supported 28 600 companies. More than 70 million euros arrived in the company stock exchange under the APOIR programme. This is to implement measures to support companies. So I also welcome the issue that allows me here to clarify the work of support for companies. Also the Portuguese Development Bank, in two calls, in two notices, assigns EUR 400 million to the capitalisation of companies — it is something we are working on. At the level of the territory, we are working on the qualifications of the territories. The basis of tourism is natural resources and we are also working in this area. We also want a more coherent, more harmonious territory, and therefore, without prejudice to the strategic importance of the most mature destinations, such as Algarve, Lisbon, Madeira or Porto, we also have to support the interior. And that is why we are developing an agenda for the tourism development of the interior, because we want a more harmonious development. And we still have people. He spoke very well in qualifications. In fact, this is a strategic priority, we are developing measures to implement the short-term, but we are already implementing some. This is the case with hotels and tourism schools, one of them precisely in the region of Mr. Deputy, in the Algarve : we have recently inaugurated the School of Hotels and Tourism in Portimão. Hotel and tourism schools are excellent schools, 90% of employability comes from hotel and tourism schools and therefore we are implementing measures in this area. But hotels and tourism schools also promote inclusion, inclusion of those who come from outside. We want to attract more talent and we want to include people who come from outside to have more work available to the tourism sector,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because it is what companies ask us to do — more labour and more skilled labour — and we are working in this direction. We are also working within the framework of international notoriety. We have agreed with the regional external promotion agencies, within the framework of the Strategic Tourism Promotion Council, of more than EUR 20 million, only to support the regions in external promotion. This is a very important work to strengthen Portugal's notoriety out there. We are also doing so with companies, and that is why I have always been present in this Parliament, Mr Pedro Pinto, always. Last time I wasn't at the end, because I had to be in FITUR, at the company's foot, listen to them, and the feedback they gave us was a very positive performance, with very high reserves to 2023, because this is a country that believes, companies believe in the country, and it's not a catastrophic country. It is not a country of shame, it is a country of pride, pride in our businesses, our workers and our institutions. So we're here to keep working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u292	To put your questions, Mr. Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, Mr. First of all, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, I would like to point out that this is a historic day, it is the day when the Socialist Party formally confirms the concern and agony with TAP, because it did something we had never seen before, that it was Mr. Carlos Pereira who said that in the first round we had talked about something we had not talked about, because we spoke about Efacec. So, in fact, cumulatively, Mr. Carlos Pereira has moved forward with a first scapegoat, which seems to be Mr. Neeleman, to join the Board of Directors, having perhaps forgotten Mr. Pedro Nunes Santos, Prime Minister Antonio Costa, Mr. Fernando Medina, and so many others who have taken us on the road without end that the TAP has. Mr Minister, it is not acceptable for you to say, when I ask you for an opinion and an opinion, that "they are states of soul". The Minister has his own states of soul, but he obviously also has his strategic and political views for the country's economic policy. The first question that I ask you is this: if you had started the trial with respect to TAP, however, knowing that you have entered the process already under way, would you prefer a private or public TAP? Another important issue in this regard concerns the statements made by the Minister in Madrid, who have already been referred to here, when he mentioned that they were said to increase the competition, competition and possible buyers of the TAP. Mr Minister, you say that the accounts are sound, and they are indeed, indeed, I will already address this aspect, but we will imagine a scenario in which Iberia, recognizing the added value of the TAP routes (North America, South America, Africa ) and having done works at Madrid-Barajas Airport, with an oversized that everyone knows, in the face of a sub-size of the Portela, is willing to pay a higher price to have the TAP and to be able to transfer to Madrid the destination of flights and routes from Africa, North America and South America, while we, with the airport from Lisbon, began to transport passengers from Madrid to Lisbon and from Lisbon to Madrid. [[PSD applause.]] in this context, Minister, how does he interpret his statement and his encouragement to buy TAP, by Iberia? The second question, Minister, has to do with the following: it is said a lot, and the Minister said - he said - that the accounts of TAP are healthy and that TAP is also said to be a success before what was planned in the restructuring plan. In terms of economy, if you give to any Portuguese entrepreneur or anywhere in the world the millions you gave to TAP, zero interest, and compressed the salary mass by 25 %, God free us but not from that profit. Mr Minister, that is no advantage! What is important to know is that the other congeners had money from the state, but they paid the interest. Lufthansa, for example, paid interest of 4 % and the State recovered EUR 700 million. And there is another important issue—see! — which is that of potential buyers who know that. You want to sell in a hurry, in a process that should be cautious, very carefully, but the buyers will study because this unique circumstance of good results happens and they will value that. I am sure that this does not respond to the desire to have the best recovery of the EUR 3200 million, of the Portuguese money, which has been made available in full. This is because the TAP said, and the government later assumed, that this money was not to be returned. Finally, Mr Minister, I leave you with one last question and appeal to your capacity, to you, also as a citizen, as a manager who was, if you do not think it is politically immoral and perverse the following: we put 32 billion in the TAP...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u294	We don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u295	... and, if Iberia buys for the 1000 million that are evaluated, Iberia will take 2000 million of the Portuguese, which are indebted, because we do not have this liquidity, and our children and grandchildren will be paying interest on a money that quickly went to Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u296	What if it's for Germany? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u297	And for France it doesn't hurt? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u298	You think that's right? from a moral and political point of view, this is absolutely perverse! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u299	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u300	Mr. Paulo Moniz, thank you very much for your questions. The multidimensional question is around the TAP. We, in the Ministry of Economics and the Sea, as you know, do not manage the TAP file. We have every confidence in the Ministers and their colleagues, who are managing this file. The central point, here, and that all studies on the Portuguese economy indicate, is that air connectivity is a fundamental factor for the performance of the Portuguese economy. Therefore, in the Ministry of Economics and the Sea, what we do is deal with air connectivity and, of course, TAP is a very important pole, but connectivity goes beyond TAP. We are discussing with several companies the opening of more lines, flights, etc. This is being done, but still with all the effort that was made in 2022, we are 6% below the air connectivity we had in 2019, so we will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u301	What a narrow view of aviation in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u302	On the TAP file, Mr Deputies, I believe that in business management, in transaction processes we must respect many principles in order to ensure a good transaction. In order to do so, we must draw up the criteria on the basis of which we will judge the various proposals. So what you are saying and listing is that the only criterion you consider is that of the price and is therefore based on the price you decide. Mr President, it will be designed, I hope, a set of criteria that safeguard the country's strategic interests. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u303	Oh, isn't it yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u304	And in this process, then, it is extremely important to weigh each dimension, and the final choice will be made by the Government, particularly by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Infrastructure. at this moment, the file is as it is and what we are trying to do, which I have already explained, is attracting the largest number of competitors, maintaining this competitive process until the end, in order to then have an analysis grid that allows the country to safeguard its strategic interests. And I certainly agree with you, the hub of Lisbon is absolutely crucial for the future of the country and the development of our connectivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u305	Again, I give the floor to Mr. Paulo Moniz. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u306	Mr President, Minister, in his round answer did not answer two questions which I would like to stress again. The first is: if you arrived today and had to decide, would you prefer private or public TAP, as you found it? The question is very clear and a clear answer is what I ask you to do. The second question, which is very important: you did not pronounce yourself on the perverseness of putting fresh money on the TAP at the expense of the Portuguese debt, and he fled, the next day, for whom to buy the TAP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u307	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u308	Sir, I'm saying again that my states of soul are not here called. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I don't have TAP file management, the TAP file is as it is, comes from behind and so that's very clear. Now, what we have to find is a good solution to the future. I would also like to see what the honourable Member has to say about how the problem should be solved. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u309	We're not government yet, but we're going to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u310	Mr President, it is very easy to question everything and something else, but it is also very important, for the construction of the debate, to express the opinion. And again, I mean, the management of this file is not with me, so I can't answer the details. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u311	To put your questions, you now have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Dantas of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u312	Mr President, first of all I welcome Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, Portugal is a country with great potential in the area of the sea. It has in its favour the extensive coastline, with 2500 km, and an exclusive economic zone (EEZ ) with a maritime area 18 times higher than the continental territory, which, in the future, with the expansion of the continental shelf, may be 25 times higher. It focuses on the two autonomous regions — Madeira and the Azores — 86 % of its exclusive economic area. These are facts that we all assume. Despite these indisputable findings, in practice there is much to be said. In practice, the organic of this government, as far as the sea is concerned, well reveals the socialist modus operandi: to please everyone and give a little bit to each one, not assuming a strategy in the medium and long term and not making reforms. Otherwise, let us see: in your ministry, and despite the transversal coordination of the sea affairs that has been committed to you, Mr. Minister directs three structures alone: the Directorate-General for Sea Policy ( DGPM), the Technical Commission of the International Register of Madeira Ships ( MAR ) and the Inter-Ministerial Commission for Sea Affairs ( CIAM). In addition, Mr Minister has the management or coordination of 13 structures with 8 ministries, which obliges him to connect to 22 other ministries.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u313	It's just connections!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u314	Only the IPMA(English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) has four guardianships: economics, agriculture, science and the environment. Still, no one was worth it to ensure the landing of the ship Mário Ruivo, because the ship was purely and simply run from the space of the Navy it occupied. Mr Minister, let me tell you that this seems more like an orchestra in which everyone plays any instrument,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u315	It's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u316	...but in which no one really has the main instrument — the batut — and in which some, who even play, have already exchanged the guidelines. Mr Minister, tell us here, frankly, if this makes sense. Does anyone really know who you're going to meet? In practice, can this work like this? With the National Innovation Agency, with which the Ministry of Science also intervenes, it is already public that has not worked. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u317	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u318	Madam President, Mrs Patrícia Dantas, thank you very much for your questions. On the question of the sea, it is one of the things we are looking at, because, as you know, it is an inheritance that has long been here. Everything that has to do with the sea involves, as Mrs Deputy has very well characterized, multiple departments, multiple areas and, therefore, in the end, to implement policies, it is extremely difficult. We're trying to simplify, try to sit everybody around the table and that's why, in the first few days, I created a task force for the economy of the sea. This task force is working and has the different entities sitting around the table, including all those mentioned here, and we define five or six objectives, which are being pursued. The first objective has to do with everything that is the knowledge network that exists in the country. We know very little about our ocean — if we know 5 %, it is already a lot — and, as Mrs Deputy pointed out very well, we are an Archipelago country. We must see the continental dimension, the maritime dimension, the two autonomous regions and develop a concept to mobilize the country and develop the economy of the sea. The economy of the sea, however, already accounts for 5 % of GDP, 5 % of exports, but it still has huge potential. What are we doing with the knowledge network we have? We're investing in marine biotechnology. We have several interests, several companies and consortia. We wanted to establish, during the year 2023, a large marine biotechnology center exactly in Matosinhos, in the area that was formerly occupied by the refinery of GALP. Therefore, the negotiations are developing, we think it is the best place in the country that is close to the scientific and technological system and can develop this whole sector. We are also working simultaneously in the area of energy. The ocean, as I often say, is a hidden power factory. We have, in our country, the potential of offshore wind energy, which is very powerful and is a more or less stable resource, which attracts large international companies, and therefore I spoke of the Copenhagen Offshore Partners project, a large Nordic consortium that wants to develop exactly this row. We have this great plan, as the Prime Minister has defined at the Conference of the Oceans, to establish an offshore wind energy cluster of about 10 GW by 2030. It's gonna be a big challenge. What is already in public consultation is the map of the five areas in which offshore wind energy will develop. We want to make more sustainable, most likely to have a kind of island with sustainable material on the base of reefs, develop, at the top, wind energy, photovoltaic energy, and then, below, that of the waves. We will also have aquaculture systems and coastal protection systems, because we must not forget that 25 % of the Portuguese coast is already under erosion today. So we are betting on network economies and economies of scale. We will also have to develop, with Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services, the part of blue tourism and ocean tourism, particularly relevant, both in Madeira and in the Azores. We are working with the governments of the Autonomous Regions in terms of what the PRR provides. In the Azores it is the cluster of the economy of the sea; in Madeira we are also working and we have already met with Mr President. In addition, Madeira has the largest protected marine area of the western hemisphere, which is a pride for Madeira and a pride for the country. But then we also have to equip ourselves with marine areas protected from management and planning instruments, and that is what we are going to do. So what we're developing here is the food part, the food line. If you look at marine biomes, you see that they have a multiplicity of organisms: they have algae, microalgae, plankton, they have everything that has to do with bacteria, cyanobacteria. And there are many companies interested in exploring, because one of the paths to the future, to build a more sustainable civilization, is exactly based on bio-economics and biological products. And so there's also there, let's say, projects and actions. I hope that when this whole scheme is simplified, which the honourable Member has very well characterized, we can move forward, but sometimes it is difficult, precisely because we have to be in permanent negotiation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u319	I give the floor again to Mrs. Patrícia Dantas. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u320	Mr President, Minister, I really wish you good luck for this challenge, because there is a lot to do to make the sea even a national design and bet. But Mr Minister, how is it possible, with this national design, that the Satellite Sea Account has sunk in 2018 and how is it possible that licences for companies wishing to invest in Portugal in the exploitation of marine resources take years and that there are opinions given by different entities of the State, particularly in the marine or maritime context, which contradict themselves? Mr Minister, it seems that many want to play in the orchestra, but that not everyone knows the teacher and that many no longer have the guidelines. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u321	Please, Minister, show the batata, show who leads this process and organizes the concert. It is music for 5 % of Portuguese GDP, 4 % of employment and 5 % of national exports. And this, Mr Minister, as you well know, is economic and this is what concerns the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u322	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u323	Madam President, thank you very much, Mrs Patrícia Dantas. I fully agree when he says there's a lot to do, but he just wanted to draw attention to something. The sea is the most important asset we have on our planet for the stabilization of climate and for the future of humanity, because it occupies 70% of the planet. And what's going on today? Our relationship with the sea is a predatory relationship. We intervened in the sea without knowledge, without technology and without science. Therefore, it is worth taking some more time, but putting the system to work exactly as it should be. And I give you just one example: you're saying that companies that want to explore marine resources take time. They delay, because we are preparing the law of bioprospecting biological resources, of the resources that exist in the ocean. This cannot be done without addressing the issue of sustainability and, most likely, what we will have in the future is that Portugal will be one of the pioneers in the world with its law of bioprospecting resources and for intervention at sea. How do you do that? Just like the Norwegians did. For years I have argued that Portugal should join the international project Argo. The Argo is a set of floats,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u324	We don't have to have the floats!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u325	... of sensors, which are placed in the ocean. They descend and rise up to 2000 m of depth, give all the information we need today about pressure, temperature, biological resources, other resources, oxygen and acidification, and the Norwegians used exactly that information to reverse the decline in salmon cards. They were in sharp decline and, using technology, science and information, they were able to intervene in appropriate cycles, reverse resource development and have a much more sustainable path. That is what we want for our ocean, because protecting the ocean is basically protecting life on our planet. And it is a paradise of biodiversity and ecosystems. That is why protected marine areas are very important, but we must also take care of everything that the ocean can offer in terms of economic development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u326	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u327	Mr President, Minister, ended the last reply you gave me to recommend that I read about the theory of organizations. There is an area of this theory, the theory of human relations, which, perhaps, applies a little better to the case in concrete, but I will not talk about it any more. Since we're in an exchange of didactic suggestions, I'm going to be a didactic too. As I recently asked a set of questions all in the same intervention and did not answer, I will now do one by one, which is to realize whether it can answer or not. Starting with the trade balance of goods, we had, last year, despite the value of exports, the biggest trade deficit of all time, since there are records. My question is: Does it concern you or not? And why do you think that happened?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u328	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u329	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I think your question is very important. Really, we have a deficit in our commercial balance, and that worries me a lot. In my view, it is linked to this fact : the imported content of our exports is one of the highest in the European Union. So, often in our industrial sectors, we prefer to import products, manufacture our products and export. And what we are discussing with our entrepreneurs—and that is why this intervention in the industrial quadrilateral in the north of the country is important and the same thing in that polygon of the chemical industry in Estarreja, the same thing in Sines and other areas—is the possibility to incorporate more and more national content into our exports. If we can reverse this situation, it will be a significant step. Often people matter because it is easier, because of the relations they have established, because they do not know the rest of the national economy. We are a very individualist people, we talk very little to each other and also in the business system often works in silos. That is why the creation of technological centres, the aggregation of large collaborative platforms in the various clusters can change the situation of the Portuguese economy and that is why we will try to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u330	I once again give the floor to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u331	Mr President, Minister, I understand the question of structural problems, but the fact is that the trade deficit has doubled in recent years. Duplex! Therefore, this is not a structural problem, it is also a conjuncural problem. With regard to GDP, does it not concern you, despite the propaganda of « huge growth », that from 2019 until 2022 Portugal has had the third worst growth in cohesion countries? What does that mean? It means that Portugal continues its way to the last places of the European Union's GDP ranking. Doesn't that bother you? What's the matter here?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u332	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Pedro Cilinio. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u333	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of course we are concerned about the growth of the economy and this growth of 6, 7 % is certainly a sign of the government's bet on this recovery. But if we also compare the growth of the economy with the year 2020, Portugal was the most growing economies in the euro area. So that is a fact, that is, we must also consider the effect of the pandemic. Obviously the data are the data, but with the economic policy we are developing, we will continue to grow this year. Surely we have passed over the year 2019 and we will continue on that path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u334	I give the floor again to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u335	Madam President, I confess that I expected better domain numbers of someone who is in the Ministry of Economics. Portugal was the third worst country among cohesion countries from 2019 to 2022, and so it is expected that it will remain until 2024, which is terrible for the country, is terrible. It's no pride anywhere, it's a terrible thing. But let's go to competitiveness. Again, a little while ago, he didn't answer. Portugal is one of the countries with the greatest fiscal effort of the European Union, Portugal is one of the least competitive fiscal countries of the European Union, 36. in 38 countries. Does that bother you? And what do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u336	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u337	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, obviously Portugal, as mentioned here by the Minister for Economic Affairs, has a tax burden which is 13. the place, with 37 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u338	I'm talking about effort!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u339	Tax charge, I'm talking about tax charge. The average level in the European Union is therefore 41 %. We're obviously at the intermediate level. We'd like him to be smaller. Once again, however, this path is also made through economic growth policy, and that is why we also bet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u340	I give the floor again to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u341	Mr President, in fact, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs there is only half of the economy: we look at exports, we don't want to know about imports; we look at the tax burden, we don't want to know about the tax effort; we look at what matters, we don't look at the numbers that really matter. Mr Minister, the numbers have not gone out yet, but I think we can easily predict and want this forecast to be confirmed. In 2022, we possibly had the highest ever drop in the weight of wages in GDP. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u342	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u343	Madam President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, we do not confirm, we do not have that information. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u344	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u345	Mr President, it is interesting that, with the data that have already emerged in relation to gross wage developments, they cannot yet conclude exactly what happened with the weight of wages in GDP. I am forward: we will see the final numbers, but most likely we have had one of the greatest reductions ever from the weight of wages in GDP. It has been known recently that the Portuguese State is placing 10 million per month in Efacec. He had already done the same with banks, with TAP and with other companies. We are always putting money on taxpayers in companies, which, for mismanagement, should have gone into insolvency. We are always saving managers, shareholders and creditors who should have fulfilled their role as scrutiny of investment. Money is injected into broken companies with the excuse that they are strategic. I tell you that there is nothing more strategic for a country than having good business incentives or good management. There is nothing more strategic for a country than economic agents know that, if something is mismanaged, they can even go into insolvency. There is nothing more strategic for any country than the possibility of well-managed companies grow by buying assets from poorly managed companies, allowing good companies to grow and bad ones to disappear. If we punish successful companies with one of the world's highest IRC rates and use this money to subsidize failed companies, we will only end up with failed companies living at the expense of taxpayers. No economy resists subsidizing poorly managed companies with money from well managed companies. There is nothing more pernicious than the idea that has been established in the country that a large company cannot fail, because a company that cannot fail is a company that can be mismanaged. There is the notion in the economy that all big companies can be mismanaged because they can never fail is the worst things an economy can have. We do not need to have managers convinced that they can do what they want, because if they do well, they get the profits and, if they go wrong, the taxpayers pay for the damage. This is not capitalism, it is sympathy. This is also what keeps the country stagnant. Therefore, Mr Minister, for the future, I would like you to tell us in what circumstances you think the Portuguese State should let a large company fail. from your understanding of what is a market economy, which I know you understand better than most of your colleagues, does the State consider it healthy to be constantly saving bankrupt companies? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u346	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u347	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, we have just heard here defending the dismissal of 2000 workers. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u348	No, I'm defending the insolvency of companies! I've seen that you don't know what a insolvency process is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u349	We are talking about a company which, as mentioned above, was strategic, has extremely valuable technological assets in the areas of energy, electricity mobility and transformers, and that is why the Government has intended to do this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u350	Don't be a populist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u351	Sir, let me speak, please. I believe that this demonstration of value is evident in the proposals we have received for the purchase of Efacec. We have seven consortia that are interested in the acquisition of Efacec, so it is a process that is under way and that will certainly, in the end, demonstrate the successful performance of the State in this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u352	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u353	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister for Economic Affairs has repeatedly stated, during this debate and outside this debate, that the State is not a good manager in companies such as Efacec or TAP. Now, this statement, presented almost as if it were a scientific postulate, a sort of fifth law of thermodynamics, actually serves to hide an unforgettable reality. It is that the political options and guidelines that prevail at every moment are decisive to defend a company or to end it. Look, for example, we could have a lot here to talk about the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo, the Atlantic ship and other such processes. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u354	What a great example of public management!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u355	Yes, and we could talk about the role of the regional governments and of political decisions that sent the naval shipyards to the tank at the time they were public. Efacec or TAP would no longer exist today if they had remained in private hands. That's the reality. Therefore, we have here the protest of IL and other right-wing forces, such as the PSD itself, to say that these companies should no longer exist, but our country has too many cases of companies and strategic sectors that were deliberately liquidated by political option in delivering to private interests with truly criminal businesses. Mr President, I would like to remind you of the process of SOREFAME (Metal Manufacturing Corporations). [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We certainly remember what was done by Cimpor and the revenue that was applied in these companies. How does the government expect this same recipe to have different results this time? Privatizing these companies means leaving them at the mercy of the threats that were already posed and now they are even more, from the outset with the privatization of Efacec. That is where the scenarios of segmentation and the dismemberment of the company are starting with the economic groups to say which parts of the company they want. Is that the reindustrialization of the country you are talking about, Minister? The state is a bad shareholder when the rulers want it to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u356	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u357	In fact, the State is even a bad regulator when the rulers decide not to put the necessary means to regulation. See what has happened to the situation of ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), which has not been spoken today either. The CFP has been alone raising the issue and we are back to raising it in this debate: lack of personnel, lack of cars and lack of means in the laboratory and facilities in general. When we raise the question, the Government systematically responds with palliatives and on-the-spot measures which are quite insufficient. Therefore, the question arises whether or not there is a political decision or recognition by the Government of the need for substantive action to provide means and capacity to respond to ESAE. In fact, the same is true of IAPMEI, with many of the problems that have been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic over the months and years on the lack of response to companies, up to access to support, investment measures and access to the incentives that the Government presents and mentions. Often, the response is delayed and fails because the IAPMEI structure itself does not have the capacity to respond to the needs that arise over time. At the last meeting on 17, we raised to the Government the question of the maturity in the IAPMEI response with regard to incentives and the access of companies here in the Lisbon parallium. The Government's response at the time pointed to complaints that were supposed to have been made. It's not true, they weren't complaints. It was the structure of the Ministry that simply did not have the ability to respond in due time and points to the end of the semester. Is there a need for a concrete investment in the structure to address the specific problems of companies, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to this current situation? Because competition is deeply unequal, disloyal, even that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face by large economic groups, even in trade and services, it is now a problem that becomes more serious when people do not have the power to buy. There is a very objective question that we also put on the question of trade. What is the Government's response to the proposal that the CFP defends from closing the large commercial areas on Sundays?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u358	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u359	Local trade is winning. Local trade was razed with the legal regime of trade and restoration services that moved from PSD to PS. What remains today — with the flourishing of large and medium-sized areas of large economic groups and with the entry into the neighbourhoods and the local trade of large economic groups of large distribution, from then on foreign groups that are killing local trade — requires a political and legislative response to put order in the situation, to defend micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and small trade, from this objective and concrete question of closing the large areas on Sundays. What does the government have to say about that? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u360	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services, Nuno Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u361	Madam President, Mr Bruno Dias, thank you very much for the questions you have here. On the subject of ASAE, I say that this is an institution in which we have great confidence and that has done a very important job in protecting fair competition and also in protecting consumers. We are working towards strengthening, both in human resources and in equipment. In 2022 we had an open competition for the acquisition of 20 cars. This competition was deserted and we are going to insist again so that companies can present proposals to strengthen ASAE with these cars. With regard to human resources, an invitation to tender for the hiring of 15 new inspectors is currently being concluded. We are in the interview phase and therefore is an objective reinforcement of ASAE, an institution, I repeat, very important for the country. But we also planned for 2023 the hiring of 20 more inspectors and 10 more senior technicians for ASAE. As regards trade, I also say the following: trade is a priority of the Government and this is included in several strategic documents. It is therefore envisaged in the social agreement and, in this respect, it is worth bearing in mind that this is also a government that has reached agreements in the most various areas through dialogue and dialogue. This was the case with the Portuguese municipalities and social consultation. That's trust. It is also confidence in the European Commission that we have had within the framework of the RPP, when it has systematically approved the various requests for payment for compliance with Portugal in the frameworks and targets. With this, I come to trade to tell you that under the social agreement we are working on an agenda for the competitiveness of trade and services in conjunction with the CCP ( Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal ). We are finalizing this document so that, as soon as possible, we have an agenda that enables us to revitalize Portuguese trade in its different dimensions. But in addition to the strategic dimension, we are also implementing. We have two notices issued under the PRR. One has to do with digital commercial accelerators, in which we are talking about 52 million euros. The analysis is being completed and will also contribute to the training of our trade throughout the country, particularly through an acceleration towards a digital transition. But we also have another warning, with about 55 million euros, to support digital neighbourhoods. There is a great mobilization of the country around this domain and in this process we are currently in the second phase, after a first pre-selection phase. at this second stage there is currently a process of explanation to promoters. We're not just launching warnings. We are explaining to promoters, municipalities and promoters how they work and how they can present their applications. Yesterday an online session was held for the entire northern region and today for the central region. I myself have been opening these sessions to also explain how these applications can be made. So, we're realising. We are also implementing very concrete actions in the territory, for example, in the context of transforming trade in the Serra da Estrela, a territory that has been reached. We have launched a EUR 2 million notice for trade in that region. There has been a very significant accession and we already have 77 approved candidatures. There are more than 150, too, who are already submitted. That means modernizing our trade. Yes, we want to modernize our trade, revitalize our 'right streets' and this work is being done to help our traders and our trade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u362	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u363	Mr President, Minister, after all these hours of discussion, you have been unable to explain why after 3 billion euros injected into the TAP and the company are finally healthy and making profits, you will sell it to a foreign group that may or may not guarantee the Lisbon hub. Most certainly not, but it's not just the hub. It is all technology, all innovation, all hiring of services and jobs. We know that the TAP is already getting rid of many, who are concerned with selling to a foreign company. We looked at the ANA process ( Airports de Portugal ) and we can make a balance sheet of what its privatisation was: the investment plan was not met, because ANA has not invested more than the public already invested, and airport rates have risen to maximum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u364	They shot!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u365	The only difference is that the profits of ANA ( Airports de Portugal) instead of staying in Portugal are sent out. And I ask you what does this do to the Portuguese balance of payments? If Portugal sells all its large companies, all the companies that give profits, and if these profits do not remain in the country, do not be reinvested—on the contrary, there is more contractualization outside, because foreign companies tend to contract outside—if no more investments are made in the country, if TAP becomes a small company, an 'adjection' of a large international company, what will happen to our country? What industrial reform is this? What industrial policy is this, which allows companies to sell that are the pillar of industrial fabric, of productive fabric, of the Portuguese economy? We've seen it in many privatizations, and that's what's expected to happen to TAP. I would like you to answer this question, not only with regard to the fact that TAP is now making profits and being sold, but also with regard to what it does for the balance of payments, which seems to be of great concern to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u366	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u367	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you another question, which has to do with the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. I would like to ask you how much you think the increase in interest rates helps the productive tissue to deal with the causes of inflation. Increasing interest helps companies deal with supply bottlenecks? Does increasing interest help companies deal with energy costs? Does increasing interest help companies deal with the costs of telecommunications? I would also like to ask you to what extent it is that compressing wages, as the Government has done, giving a signal to the private, with the false excuse of inflation, helps the economy to grow and modernise itself, because low wages are indeed a barrier to that objective. A country that lives from the national minimum wage is a country that will never be modernized, that will never have activities of high value added, that will never grow sustainably. Mr. Minister of Economics has several theories on factory floor, on technological model, but it was important for him to tell us how he intends to increase wages in Portugal. It is not enough to say that the economy is growing, because the country is growing but the weight of wages in GDP is decreasing. The reduction in the weight of wages in GDP is unrivalled in this century. The troika did not reduce wages in GDP as large as it is happening now, because the record growth of the economy and GDP is not being reflected in wages; it is being appropriated for astronomical profits from large companies that are monopolies or oligopolists and win with inflation. So I ask you what the Government has to answer to this brutal imbalance in the appropriation of wealth by large companies, penalizing wages and penalizing small and medium-sized enterprises. Is this the kind of modern economy that we want to have, with sectors that survive low wages, the exploitation of immigrant work without any conditions, and with large monopolistic companies that increase the price as well as they want, gain astronomical profits and to whom the government does not even want to impose extraordinary taxes? We understand precisely this dynamic when we look at two elements that affect both citizens and companies: tolls and telecommunications. In none of these sectors workers were increased, in none of these sectors there is more investment, but both sectors increased prices by 8 % and increased profits by more than 8 %. And I wonder what the government's answer to this is. What will you do with companies that deal with 8 % increase in telecommunications, and that is detrimental to their costs, when the oligopolist telecommunications companies have extraordinary profits? What is the Minister of Economy’s response, in addition to the great speeches on technology and innovation, to these real issues that affect the country and affect businesses? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u368	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u369	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in relation to the first points she pointed out, which relate to the destruction that took place in the country of large companies, value centres and innovation centres, is something that, from a collective point of view, was indeed a tragedy. We have had extraordinary companies in the country that have disappeared or become subsidiaries of foreign companies, and I therefore very much share this concern and, in fact, Mrs Deputy has already done studies and done analyses on this. Now, I believe deeply, in terms of the future, in a kind of multidimensional vision about what must be a modern economy: we must certainly have a State that provides services, a social state; we must also have a regulatory state and give regulators all the capacity to intervene in the economic sector; and we must have a rising market economy, which means the competitiveness of companies, but also their training in terms of knowledge, technology, work and, above all, the question of wages and wage recovery. I think that there is one way we are going, and of course there are policies. I have already given the example of a policy that is included in the State budget, to encourage companies themselves to make wage increases with IRC support, to increase about 50 % with wage costs, also conditional on the increase in the average wage within companies and the decrease in wage disparities. But this is a big problem that we have for the future, it is a very big challenge, and I think that the way is, above all, to provide conditions for creating more wealth and then the state, either through fiscal policy, or through regulation, to promote that transformation. What I often feel when I visit several sectors is that we already have a number of entrepreneurs in the country who understand this and who are aligned with this plan to improve wage issues, to have a more qualified, more competitive workforce. So let's continue to work to realize these transformations. I have already had the opportunity to say that I do not have this case in my hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u370	So why did you talk in Madrid? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u371	I think it is a very important problem that the country and the government have to solve. When I say that the state is not a good shareholder, it is for special companies, hence the design of Efacec. I feel that in the advanced technology sectors, with the mutations that exist in international markets, it is clear that states are probably not the best shareholders of such companies. But the State has the business sector of the state and is a good shareholder in many of these areas. Clearly, in terms of management, organisation and operation, it must continue to improve, as everyone is improving. I believe that, there, the processes of digitisation itself and all the great program of digitisation of the Public Administration, or of the digitisation of companies, can be transformative at this level, because it will involve deintermediation of processes, realignment of production processes, reconfiguration of value chains and, in itself, digitisation—at least the studies so indicate—can have a transformative impact on the economy. Therefore, by sharing some of your concerns, let us try, in this vision, to say, multidimensional, to combine these various sectors and to have a much more coherent and far more competitive economy in the future. But basically, what we have here is the transformation of a model of economic development, which is based on low wages, for a model that has to be based on technological innovation, value creation, export capacity and the country's competitive capacity. Today, we have several sectors that are aligned with this transformation; there are others that are taking that path. It is clear that the economy is heterogeneous and we need to see, in various cases, which are the best public policies to help this transformation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u372	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real from the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u373	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take up the topic of the sea, because its protection is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Sea — little has been said on this issue today — and, despite recognizing the importance of the sea as a carbon sink, there is a line which Mr has not yet made clear, which has to do with the prospect of hydrocarbons. If it is consensual that, in fact, we have a carbon sink here and that the exploitation of hydrocarbons can compromise these carbon cycles, it is essential to realize what to do, even because of the commitments that were signed at the UN Oceans Conference last year. I recall that the National Assembly of France recently approved a moratorium on mining in deep sea. We have pending regulation of the Basics of Climate Law, which in its article 79. the, also provides for the revision of the standards that allow the granting, prospecting and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Portugal, and its adequacy to the climate goals and objectives. So, Minister, what I would like to ask now is whether this exploitation is compatible with the principles that you have just defended. In other words, if we want to look at the potential that the sea has, it means that we have to bear in mind the risk of prospecting hydrocarbons, and the principle of preservation and precautions must call us in any way to harmonise the protection of ecosystems and marine habitats and not to exploit them in this dimension. So is it or is it not available to put a moratorium approved by Portugal on the table as well as within the framework of this review? Finally, and because little has been said about the circular economy, and Portugal has systematically failed to meet the goals of the use of resources, particularly waste — and the electrical and electronic equipment has also been a brand of it, and many of them have precisely valuable components that could be reused, and are not, thus encouraging the economy — I ask you whether you think we should or should not go further to the goal of fulfilling waste and creating a flow for electrical and electronic equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u374	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u375	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the sea is really an important issue for the future of the country, given the size it takes in our territory. In terms of carbon dioxide, you're absolutely right. The sea absorbs about 25% of the carbon that is produced on our planet and therefore ocean health is vital for the future. What are we doing? Everything Mrs Deputies mentioned in terms of hydrocarbon exploration will never happen. We have a law, including, adopted by the Assembly of the Republic, which prohibits the prospecting of hydrocarbons in Portuguese territory and, therefore, we will fully respect that law and that is not even at issue. What do I defend about the ocean? It is at the base of knowledge; we need to know much more about our ocean. He talked about ecosystems. If it goes to the Azores, they are crossed by a failure, which is the Atlantic dorsal fracture, which is extraordinary, because it communicates the lithosphere with the asthenosphere, which is the immediately lower layer. Therefore, through this great fracture, the phenomena of vulcanism take place and many materials are expelled, but when they arrive and solidify at sea level, we have aggregated to them ecosystems as we never thought. I thought life on our planet depended on photosynthesis, as science teaches, but there we have a completely different synthesis, that no one was waiting for. It's seeing the euphoria our biologists live with, because it's a kind of chemo synthesis. Those organisms directly synthesize hydrogen sulphide, which is the most toxic matter we have on our planet. So, what do I defend here? We will see all those areas, because they have to be marine protected areas that have ecosystems, but I open them to research, because what happens there are new systems of life, new forms of resistance of life, and there is a lot of interest, especially in the area of health sciences, and it can also be a very interesting way to develop that whole area. With regard to the law we are going to make bio-prospecting, it will, above all, be on the prospect of marine resources, biological resources, in order to systematize and see these resources. But, as you know, today, and the future can pass through, we will be able to reproduce these marine resources, for example, algae, and develop more sustainable food lines in the sea, based exactly on this marine biotechnology. On the moratorium that France has approved, we are investigating and we will decide what the country will do. My position here, Mrs Deputies, is, with all sincerity and frontality, the following: I do not like to make moratoriums on what we do not know. We cannot ban what we don't even know. I think that the country has the right, has the duty to know all the potential of its maritime space, systematize it and then make decisions, in the future, when appropriate. I think this is a national cause. In no way will we question the sustainability of the ocean—it is a rule of gold—but we must develop our relationship with the ocean based on science, technology and knowledge. And that can change everything, in the sense that we have much more sustainable systems and we have new, also economical rows related to the development of these resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u376	It is Mr Rui Tavares' turn to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u377	Madam President, Minister, three quick questions. As for the answers, perhaps two can be faster, another picture that is longer. A question, moreover, comes from the answer you gave me recently, about how we can take our big businesses — at the time we were talking about energy — to understand also the economic potential they have to treat their workers in the best way. And there is a simple way, and it has already been applied in many countries in the world, particularly in Europe, which is to have workers on the board of directors. I ask you: with the management experience you have, what is your opinion about the presence of workers in the board of directors and what will you, as a ruler, legislate to benefit companies that decide to take this step, because it is a step that has evidence given, particularly in German capitalism? Secondly, I have often heard our colleagues from the Socialist Party talk about the rise of the national minimum wage. I heard one, two, three, four times and, at some point, I almost wanted them to talk again about the absolute majority, because I could no longer hear about the national minimum wage in isolation. The Portuguese national minimum wage, like Spanish, is a victory for democracy. He was born in the 1970s. It was always around 80 % of the Spanish minimum wage, a little more, a little less. When the Socialist Party reached the Government last time, it was 78 %, practically 77 %, 86 %. Today, it's 70, 37%.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u378	You're not gonna talk until 7:00 in the afternoon, are you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u379	The governments of the Socialist Party have allowed the Portuguese minimum wage to be distanced from Spanish. When our young people emigrate, it is not with the tax code in the pocket, as the Liberal Initiative thinks, but it is thinking that, in Spain, even the minimum wage is more than 1000 €, and here it is not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u380	What about Ireland?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u381	Mr Minister, what is the impact from the investor's point of view of looking at an Iberian Peninsula, which is a very integrated market, where there is a higher Spanish minimum wage - and entrepreneurs say : 'for qualified young people' — and a lower Portuguese minimum wage — and people say 'is for cheap labour'?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u382	Are you gonna talk till 7 o'clock in the afternoon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u383	You have to finish. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u384	I shall conclude, Madam President. Third question. This is a quick question, perhaps the answer is that it is longer. What will Portugal do and how should we reinvent for a European Union that includes Ukraine, Moldova and the Western Balkans and in which we all win?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u385	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u386	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, the first question you have raised is very interesting, and I think that the model you referred to, which is the German model, is a standard that we have to study in detail. The German model is based exactly on the transformation of companies into a kind of communities between entrepreneurs and workers, where there is representation of workers on the board of directors, and I think this is extremely positive for the operation of companies: it will transform them into communities. The participation of workers in the boards of directors not only gives a greater sense of belonging, because they discuss the issues, as it smoothes the whole of labor relations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u387	And then who gets the money?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u388	... especially when entrepreneurs understand that the situation and well-being of workers are crucial to the transformation of companies and to the creation of wealth. I think this is a model that we should probably continue in our country. It is clear that we have to analyze and study. I believe that this is an excellent idea that you are presenting and is fundamental. I have already seen companies in several countries in the world that follow this model, which have this set of participations, and the results are always much better than those of companies that do not. So I think we have to explore this idea. On the second question that arises, which has to do with the minimum wage and comparison with Spain, it is really worrying still this gap that exists between Portugal and Spain and the possible reading that entrepreneurs can do in a cheap labour country. We want to value our wages more and more and align the country with all the transformation that is being made in Europe and therefore it is still a way to go. It drew attention only to the fact that, in spite of everything, with the measures taken, we have made progress in terms of the minimum wage and also to the fact that the level of the minimum wage depends heavily on the country's ability to create wealth, its competitiveness and also on the openness of entrepreneurs to consider this measure. That is why I think that this measure, which is in the State budget, of IRC support — let's see how it will work — is a great sign. There are some Portuguese companies, curiously, who are already doing this: increasing wages 5, 1 % or above, exactly not only to have this tax benefit, but also to share the major concerns about the operation of companies and the decrease in this gap. On the question of the European Union, here, Mr Deputy, with all humility — Mr Deputy is a specialist in this area —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u389	Specialist? Oh, my God! In what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u390	...what I think is that the European Union is in a process of gigantic transformation. The year 2022 is a historic year. For the first time, we had the European Union thinking in geopolitical terms and, above all, we have Germany, which is the European Union's engine country, also thinking in geopolitical terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u391	And the result is in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u392	The European Union has defined a set of rules and has made an admirable journey. Just travel around the world, to see the issue of climate change, the minimization of emissions and the health of the planet. It is an immense capital that the European Union has, but at this time, enlargement processes, with all the problems that exist, and functionality, can be processes that will complicate, let us say, future designs. But Ukraine is part of Europe, like Moldova and like other countries, and I think there must be a thought, a concert. I believe that the European Union is a great, great project and therefore I am deeply European, because I am still living in a time of aftermath of the Second World War and the impact that World War II has had, and we have not had wars in Europe for many years because of the European project. Unfortunately today, the geopolitical situation has changed, creates great challenges for the future, but at this time I cannot answer whether or not the integration of these countries is good or not. I believe that we must work and create conditions for this integration to take place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-09.u393	We have concluded this interesting and participated debate. I take this opportunity to say good-bye to the Minister and to the Members. Secretary of State and also of the Minister. I announce to the House what is already known, that tomorrow our plenary meeting begins at 10 a.m. with five points on the agenda. of the first point is the discussion of the Bill No 53 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The essential elements of the rate associated with the provision of postal services and the Law Projects No 498 / XV / 1 are implemented. a ( L) — Bans the sale of lottery and instant lottery tickets at stations and mail stations and 504 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the application of VAT exemption on importation to small consignments without a commercial character by amending Decree-Law No 31 / 89 of 25 January. of the second point is the assessment of Bill Nos 483 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism to combat wage inequality, 375 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — provides for a scheme of incentives for balanced representation between women and men in the management, supervision or management bodies of commercial companies, 500 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Establishs the creation of a conventional reference value for wage ratios in companies and 505 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Increases transparency in job announcements and remuneration. The third point consists of discussion of Bill No. 414 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the assessment of the cost/benefit and financial viability of all observatories, with a view to deciding on their maintenance or extinction. of the fourth point is the assessment of Petition No 8 / XV / 1. a — of the initiative of FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers — Teachers claim justice, enforcement of our rights and respect for working hours, of Bill No. 497 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Tenth sixth amendment to the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, Decree-Law No 139 / 90 of 28 April and of Resolution Projects No 172 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enhance public education and school workers and 379 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government undertake the salary updating of teachers and correspond to the high levels of demand that the teaching profession involves. The fifth point consists of regular votes. We have concluded our sitting here. I thank everyone and the Bureau say goodbye. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 45 minutes.]]
