ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We will start our meeting today with a debate with the presence of the President of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola, under Article 16 ( d ). the Rules of Procedure. Madam President of the European Parliament, Members of the Government, Mrs. Members of the European Parliament. Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the presence in the Assembly of the President of the European Parliament, Mrs Roberta Metsola, during the official visit to Portugal, and thank you for having accepted this debate in plenary, in which you will have the opportunity to address the House, to listen to all parties and to answer the questions put to it. This is the first time a debate is held with the President of the European Parliament here. It won't be the last. The Treaty of Lisbon has at the same time strengthened the role of the European Parliament and that of the national parliaments, which makes all the sense. A more affirmative and coherent Europe must be increasingly democratic, paying attention to the voice of citizens and their representative assemblies, and the consolidation of European institutions and the diversity of Member States, or diminishing the relevance of decisions taken as close as possible to the populations and territories. The Assembly of the Republic is one of the parliaments most interested in European construction, cooperating with the European Parliament and the other national parliaments. Speaking to us on matters of our competence, discussing and supervising the acts of the government, dialogue with the social partners, local and regional authorities and civil society. We make a point of honor in the ongoing follow-up to the European process, always welcoming the plurality of opinions, as this debate will show. It is not my duty to anticipate it, but I believe that I can and must express the pro-European orientation, which is a broad majority in this House and, from that direction, to identify, among the vast number of issues that define the current agenda of the European institutions — the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council and the European Commission — four issues that particularly motivate the attention of the Assembly of the Republic. The first question is the link between strengthening the European social model, implementing, inter alia, the European pillar of social rights and the development of climate action and digital transition. In view of the voices calling for the braking of the fight against climate change to supposedly satisfy public opinions, it must be very clear: climate action and social pillar are not alternatives, they are the two mutually indispensable dimensions to ensure a fair transition, which leaves no one behind and thus defend the common future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second issue is the reform of European institutions and rules in order to prepare the Union for new challenges — not only the immediate challenge of Russia's war on Ukraine, but also the next enlargement, which will have a profound institutional and financial impact, and the more general geopolitical and geoeconomic change that is already under way. We know that the tax revenue to respond to the 2010 sovereign debt crises was unfair, counterproductive and causing great suffering. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] We also know that the agreed response to cover-19 and to accelerate post-pandamy economic recovery was rapid, fair, supportive and effective. For we withdraw the lessons and move forward without fear for the revision of the rules and financial resources, so as to invest more in our security, preserve the other necessary investments, encourage convergence between us, increase the strategic autonomy of our Union and provide it with the tools needed to respond to future crises. The third question concerns democratic values and the rule of law. Let us not hesitate to defend what is the essential basis of the Union, which all candidates must accept and all Member States must comply with. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] There cannot be, within us, supposed liberal or simply electoral democracies. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] This, liberal or simply electoral democracy, does not exist. Democracy in Europe is either liberal and strong in society or not at all. The defence of the rule of law and democratic institutionality is, along with social cohesion policies, the most powerful weapon against mistrust and populism. Finally, but not least, the opening up of Europe to the world. This is a very close approach to Portugal, which sees in it an application of democratic values and the foundation for actions of utmost importance, such as the promotion of multilateralism, support for Ukraine against Russian aggression, the consolidation of the Atlantic Alliance, the strengthening of economic and political ties with Africa, Latin America and the Indo-Pacific, the humanitarian reception of refugees and the promotion of regular, orderly and secure migration channels. The European Union ( EU ) is the place in the world which better combines political democracy, social equality and economic development. Madam President of the European Parliament, you can count on the contribution of the Assembly of the Republic to continue to be that place—to be more and more so. [[PSP, PAN and PSD Members are applauded.]] I now give the floor to the President of the European Parliament. You have the floor, thanks you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u2	Mr. President, Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Members of this House of the Republic : It is an honour to be here today to represent the European Parliament. This honour is a testimony to Portugal's commitment to the European Union, Portugal's commitment to European parliamentary democracy and to Europe's fundamental reason. Here, in the most European parliaments. It is wonderful to be back in Portugal, a country that personifies what it means to be European, a place where I always feel at home, with a people who symbolizes the spirit of resilience, solidarity and unity that Europe must embrace. That is the Portuguese effect. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] The challenges are many. We are facing a war on our continent with the illegal invasion of sovereign Ukraine by Russia. We have lived with price increases and energy shortages. Too many people continue to have difficulty in dealing with expenses. Raw materials are becoming scarcer. Inflation remains an obstacle to growth. There is a climate transition that cannot be ignored, migration challenges that require a pan-European holistic approach and a post- pandemic economic recovery that still remains too fragile. But, my friends, it is not the challenges that will define our era, but our answer, and I am proud of how Europe has risen and continues to stand up. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN applause.]] In February 2022, a few days after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, I found in Strasbourg a group of women and children who had just left Kyiv. I asked them: “Where are you going? They answered me: « To the port, a place on the other side of the continent. » It was a touching moment that showed that, even at the worst, you did not run away from your responsibilities. Your camera presidents didn't say they were too far away to worry about. You gave people hope. Your towns and cities, including Lisbon, have responded to our « Hope Generators » campaign to provide electricity to Ukraine. So for all they have done to support our joint efforts to ensure the survival of Ukraine and for all they continue to do, I thank you. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] It is true that Portugal knows how to overcome the challenges of geography better than most. Your nation is where Europe begins. from Latin America, from Africa to Asia, your unique ties enabled Europe to talk to the world and listen in a way that allows a common understanding and protects multilateralism. The Corvo, an island with 17 km2 in the Azores, is at the same distance from the United States as from Brussels. It's our gateway to the world. That's Europe. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] They told me a story about how on Europe Day in 2017 a wall depicting Jacques Delors and the oldest resident of the Corvo, José Mendonça Machado, was painted in the local public library. The message was clear — Mr Machado is as European as President Delors — and we hear it everywhere. There can be no place in Europe too far away to be important. That is our joint challenge. That is why we are promulgating European legislation to enable islands such as the Azores and Madeira to obtain more resources to prosper. That's how we raise our continent. We can regenerate ourselves and we can do so by strengthening the foundations of our European project in a sustainable and socially just way, oriented towards the future. I have just come along with my colleagues from the European Parliament where we voted on the world's most advanced legislation on artificial intelligence. We have developed a legislative act that allows us to be world leaders in digital innovation, based on EU values. In the future, we will need clear and constant limits for artificial intelligence. We will encourage innovation, but there is one issue on which we will not make concessions: whenever technology advances, it will have to be accompanied by fundamental rights and democratic values. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] We need to reconsider how we legislate, as we think. It began a new era and, with it, a threat from evil entities that use technology to undermine our democracies. This is a new form of hybrid threat that we, the parliaments, must face together. Europe has the capacity to make a worldwide tone, to lead, and we can do so in our own way, in a responsible way. This is also the spirit we want to see with our response to the challenges of migration. It is a historic moment with the Member States finally reaching agreement on the path to migration. But this historic moment was blinded by another shipwreck in the Mediterranean — more lives lost in our seas, more mothers waiting for news that will never come. The urgency of agreeing on the folder of migration and asylum is real. I am convinced that we can find a path that respects borders and that is fair and compassionate to those who need protection, that it is firm with those who are not eligible and that it is strong against traffickers who exploit the most vulnerable people on our planet. That is the European way of acting, and that is the Portuguese way of acting. We do not need to reinvent the wheel, but we can bring people's decision-making process closer together, strengthen links with national parliaments and raise people's awareness of the potential Europe has to make people's lives a little easier, a little safer and a little more equitable. One year from the elections to the European Parliament, this is the message I want to convey to people: Europe is important. Your voice, your choice, is important. Your vote is important. Europe is not just its institutions. Europe is made of its people. Obviously, I am not here to say that the European Union is perfect. In fact, I share many of the frustrations with some of our processes. But I am here to say that Europe can be better if we act together. I am here to call on people, young people in particular, not to give in to the comfort of easy cynicism, not to accept a silent retreat to the extremes and political fringes. To do this, we must continue to listen to people, we must continue to convince them, we must continue to show results. We must show people the tangible benefits of Europe. We must have the courage to go beyond rhetoric and we must be honest — honest about where we have failed, but honest about where we have been successful, and we have much to be proud of. It is up to us to show leadership and to do a better job in ensuring that the value of Europe becomes felt. We must not fear change. We are on the road to enlargement. What worked for 27 will not work for 30 or 33. We must be ready to strengthen and reform. It will not be easy, but there is no doubt that it is necessary. This past year has meant completely rethinking our security and defence policy. I brought up the debate on our strategic autonomy for the agenda. It has framed our response to the digital and ecological transition, and will continue to do so. In Portugal, you know well. At the beginning of 2022, renewable energies accounted for only 52 % of your total electricity consumption. In January 2023, this percentage had risen to 88 %. That's the future. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] But our dual transition can only be achieved if we are able to have the right framework for sustainable and ecological economic growth. That is how we settle our debts, which solve the intergenerational problems of poverty that affect all our societies, which we can give hope to young people and which we can do as we achieve our climate ambitions. These changes are not just about greening. They have to do with growth, they have to do with safety, ensuring that people can expand the reach of their wages and pay their homes. They have to prepare our economies for the future. Finally, they have to do with the way we left our project stronger than we found it. To do so, we need to do a better job with regard to mitigating the economic and social impact of these decisions. We have to explain better why and how we are doing it, because none of our policies will succeed if the people who choose us, if the people who hope we meet what they want from us are not on our side. That is what I mean by « a Europe of renewal ». We want people to regain this sense of mission, this feeling of optimism, of enthusiasm for Europe. Europe does not intend to make everyone the same. We understand that we are different, that we have different cultures, different national realities. Our differences and our ability to unite are what makes us strong. The European Parliament belongs to both Portuguese and all others. No decision is made in Europe without you. Many are taken for your sake and many are led by you. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] Europe is worth it. It's worth your time, your energy, your conviction. It's worth the frustrations that sometimes provoke. It's worth the money we've invested in. Europe is you. Europe exists because of you and Europe simply cannot exist without you. So thank you, Portugal. Thank you for 38 years of European solidarity and leadership. Thank you for helping build our Europe. Now, let's make it stronger. [[PS, PSD, IL, PAN and L applause standing, and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u3	Let us now hear the speeches of the political parties. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u4	Mr. President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues of the European Parliament, dear fellow citizens, Mr. President Roberta Metsola : Welcome to Portugal, Mer fil-Portugall.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u5	Speak Miradense too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u6	Those who see it in this Parliament, who even celebrated its 200 years of existence last year, think it comes from a European Parliament which is a recent idea. It's not. The idea of the European Parliament has been four centuries and is a fundamental idea for the future of human rights, democracy, progress and peace on our continent. The President had just been elected to the European Parliament — I believe it was her first or second vote in Strasbourg, now 25 years ago — we have warned the Council and the Commission that a Member State of the European Union does not respect the values of Article 2. that of the Treaty on European Union, in particular respect for the rule of law, would jeopardise the whole democratic architecture of the European Union. We knew, when we voted on this report, that it would not be easy and that Member States and the European Commission would take time to listen. Now that it will be ten years ago and that the problem we have detected in Hungary, we have detected in Poland — and we have also seen in your country, in Malta, the murder of journalist Daphne Caruana Galicia for its fight against corruption — is an increasingly urgent problem, even more so when we prepare to extend the European Union. I leave three suggestions to the President of the European Parliament for the future of the rule of law in our Union. Firstly, since now enlargement takes account of the participation of the candidate countries in the European Parliament, sending parliamentary delegations as observer members to take advantage of the 50 places which are now vague in the European Parliament after Brexit. Secondly, the European Parliament should create its own Copenhagen Commission. If the candidate States have to comply with the Copenhagen criteria to enter the European Union, it does not make sense that after they are in the Union they cease to comply with the rules of the club they had to comply with to enter. For example, it is enough to appoint the Sakharov Prizes which the European Parliament, each year, welcomes to form an independent committee of experts to assist us in the task of being vigilant in the face of violations of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u7	You have to respect time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u8	Last suggestion: the President, while she was in the permanent representation of Malta, negotiated the Lisbon Treaty and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is not possible to have a Charter of Fundamental Rights which, in 50 articles, makes a European promise and in Article 51. he fulfills it with that promise. It is essential that in the context of enlargement the European Parliament should have a very firm position and not enter new countries, new Member States, without Article 51. that of the Charter of Fundamental Rights is abolished so that each citizen is the guardian of the rule of law in our Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u9	To intervene by the party Persons-Animal-Nature, I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u10	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Distinguished Guests, Dear President of the European Parliament : As a representative of an environmentalist, Europeanist and feminist party, it is with particular pleasure that we receive it, since seeing a woman follow Simone Veil's legacy and occupy the presidency of the European Parliament is, of course, a way to see another stone fall from the wall of inequality, which not only persists as we know, remains very high. We are 6 years and 36 days from the non-return point, the point where climate change will be irreversible. That is why not only the fight against the climate crisis with the implementation of measures such as the Climate Bases Act, which recognises the climate emergency and sets climate policy objectives in Portugal, but also the European Climate Law, which has set the goal of achieving the European Union's carbon neutrality by 2050, as well as reducing emissions by 55 % by 2030, are absolutely fundamental. These are important steps to maintain global warming below 1, 5 °C, as defined in the Paris Agreement. But we feel that these goals do not always end up out of role and lack concrete action. I would therefore like to leave you a first question, Madam President. The ecological restoration law, whose vote was postponed, provides for the repair of the damaged ecosystems by 30 % and a 50% reduction in the use of chemical pesticides in the European Union by 2030. We have seen some resistance to this law and we would like to know what the European Parliament's effective commitment to the conservation of ecosystems, the creation of ecosystem services and the fight against biodiversity decline. A second concern is precisely the protection of biodiversity and I would like to take this opportunity to tell you about the importance of the European Union to work more closely in animal protection, particularly in combating trafficking in species, including pet animals, and also to review legislation on the transport of live animals. Finally, Madam President, I cannot help but tell you about the European social pillar, because irrespective of the refugee crisis, whether it concerns the human rights of women who have fallen back, as we see in countries such as Afghanistan or Iran, and for whom we must also have a welcoming response, we must not forget the families who are experiencing great difficulties in the European Union, by virtue of an incomprehensible decision of the European Central Bank. The galloping rise in interest rates in countries like Portugal is representing a rise in credit benefits of 300 €, 400 € and 500 € per month, which is absolutely unbearable. I ask you, therefore, whether you are available to help us combat and prevent this phenomenon and once again thank you for your presence, which honors us so much in this Parliament. [[Greetings from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u11	To intervene in the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u12	Mr President, Madam President of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost 50 years ago, there was a consensus in Portugal that our people's backs would never again carry inevitable futures. This consensus is called 'democracy'. It requires choice and the purity of choice is the truth of alternatives. For many, Europe, or the idea of a post-war Europe, a social state, solidarity, cooperation, respect for national sovereignty and the affirmation of universal humanism is part of this greater idea of democracy and freedom. Today we have the right and the duty to ask what they have done to our idea of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Europe they are talking about is the one which has made this land a laboratory of destruction by austerity, which wanted to impose its law as a national consensus and which has entered through our history in search of the weak points of our Constitution. The Europe they speak of has sacrificed the social state and future investment, on behalf of budgetary rituals that leave us unprepared and unprotected in health, education, work, climate catastrophe. And there are those who want Europe to continue to do so. With the euro area in technical recession, Frankfurt announces further increase of interest and Brussels decides to return to the collection of budgetary forces. Do not tell us that there is flexibility to define the rhythm when the drum is played by the Commission and the baton is in the hands of the Council. They do not tell us that they have learned from the past when they insist on short-term pro-cyclical criteria that penalise investment. We are well aware of the Brussels criteria and prejudices. Because of them, today we spend fortunes on health jobs, but no structural careers are created. Because of them, Portugal gives up public care in childhood and old age or has an industrial and productive policy. Healthy finances require a sustainable economy in social peace. What the rules of economic governance set up is the subjugation of all policies to a financial rule, even if the cost is this unbearable notion that, vote on those who vote, win those who win at the end send Germany. It is a well of resentment this policy that does not and does not allow it to do, which promises democracy and affirms inevitability, which ascribes prosperity and imposes precariousness, which raises flags for human rights, while causing death in the sea or builds concentration camps for those who have the misfortune of being born in hunger and war. Yesterday, more 79 deaths were confirmed in the Mediterranean and on the coast of Greece, which can come to be 500, 100 children among them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what was the power that banned rescue and reception missions of human beings, that criminalized NGOs (non-governmental organizations) that did so, that deported and made agreements with dictatorships, to erect concentration camps for unwanted people? What was that power? Tell me, am I talking about Trump's presidency or the European Union? They know that the right answer is « both». The European Parliament will decide whether the honourable Council's decision, supported by the Portuguese Government, which gives a price to human life, €20 000, to be exact, and which sees people as cattle to arrest, to deport, to let die, or if on the contrary, it can recover a resistance from the so-called fundamental humanism of the European Union. The exemplary treatment of the war refugees caused by Putin proves that Europe can and can do differently in the reception of refugees. The suspension of budgetary rules during the pandemic opened a very small gap of wisdom in the dogma of austerity. The certainty that public services are destroyed and that the lives of those who work are precarious, in the shadow of bricks such as flexicurity, can indeed give rise to secure policies for the reconstruction of the social state and for the fight against inequalities. Retrogressions in environmental matters can be avoided if the fossil is at the door of the lobbies of buildings where everything is decided in European policy. Who, after all, defends Europe more, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President of the European Parliament? Who defends Europe more? Who wants her well and thinks she can be a place of choice or who sinks her into a sea of cruel inevitability? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u13	To speak on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u14	President of the Assembly of the Republic, Madam President of the European Parliament, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Invited : In Portugal, as in other countries of the European Union, the current situation is marked by a reduction in the real value of wages and pensions, the accumulated loss of purchasing power for workers and pensioners, the increase in prices of essential goods and services, the attack on public services and social rights, the deepening of inequalities and injustices, the increase in exploitation while the profits of economic groups do not cease to increase, in particular in the energy sector, in banking and telecommunications, profits obtained at the cost of sacrifice of workers and pensioners, in a process of concentration of wealth by capital. In view of this reality, there is no word from the institutions of the European Union to combat the cost of living or to increase wages and pensions. There is no word because the reality is inseparable from the political options of the European Union itself, responsible for the sharp deterioration of the economic and social situation, which is revealing the nature of the European Union, at the service of the interests of the economic groups and multinational companies. They agree with the European Pillar of Social Rights, which, in fact, only serves to level social rights. But as far as the institutions of the European Union are trying to move side by side, they cannot hide the degradation of the living conditions of those who live from their work. Systematically, the institutions of the European Union seek to impose their neoliberal guidelines, in the offensive against rights, whether labour and trade unions, whether rights to health, education, housing or social protection, to contain and reduce wages and pensions, to attack public enterprises and promote the privatization of strategic sectors of the economy, to stop public investment or to withdraw new shares of sovereignty from countries. The European Union always signals as a risk or a danger any update of wages or pensions, however short it may be. There are policies that are not only unable to solve the problems that workers and people are facing, as they are responsible for their worsening. In the face of high inflation, which the European Central Bank itself has already come to the public saying that it does not result from the increase in demand and that it is associated with the increase in profit rates, the institutions of the European Union have not stopped the use that economic groups are making of war and sanctions, as they did before of the epidemic. What was put forward, in the area of energy, was clearly insufficient. The costs of electricity, gas and fuel for families and for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises remain extremely high. Yesterday, the European Central Bank decided for the eighth consecutive time to increase interest rates in the last year and the prospect is that they will continue to increase. In Portugal there are estimated to be more than one million households with housing loans. The increase in interest rates is becoming unbearable for families, with increases in benefits of 100 €, 200 €, 300 €, 400 €. It is a decision that harms families and the country and only benefits the bank, allowing for scandalous profits at the cost of transferring income from work to capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u16	Maintaining this option, sooner than later, the situation will blow-up-CL, with many families being able to enter into a situation of non-compliance and be able to stay without their home. The Mediterranean remains the largest cemetery in Europe. It is inhuman to deny aid to thousands and thousands of refugees, men, women and children fleeing the war, often in circumstances caused by the interference of the United States of America, the European Union and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u17	It's from Russia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u18	... that they seek security and better living conditions. There is passivity of the authorities, who, despite requests for aid, refuse to lend it, as willfully leave people on the high seas, to their lot, and are not few times in which the consequence is death, at the doors of Europe. Where are humanism and respect for human rights, which the European Union so much appreciates? After the European peace support mechanism, funding for military operations and interventions and for the acquisition of arms and war materials, a mechanism now emerges to support the production of ammunition. The European Union, which mobilises and provides millions of euros for arms, is the same one that refuses to value wages and pensions and investment in public services and which pushes people towards poverty. To increase wages and pensions is not possible, but for arms and war there is no restriction.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u19	It's Putin!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u20	What about Russia?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u21	Armamentist escalation only brings more destruction and suffering, prolongs and intensifies war. It is necessary to stop instigating and fueling the war in Ukraine, to open the way for negotiations with all those involved to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict,... [[PSD protests.]] ... the response to the problems of collective security and disarmament in Europe and the fulfilment of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the end of the Helsinki Conference. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to add the following: the dissatisfaction and struggle of workers and peoples, the fight for rights, the fight for wages against exploitation, the demand for peace, which is growing. The promotion of European values, rights, cohesion, solidarity, progress and peace does not resist confrontation with reality, which is quite different. It is necessary to respond to the problems that workers and people aspire to, increase wages and pensions, control and reduce prices of essential goods and services, charge extraordinarily the profits of economic groups, combat speculation, strengthen public services and social rights. For a Europe of workers and peoples, of progress and social justice, respect for the sovereignty and equality of rights between States, solidarity and cooperation between peoples and the promotion of peace. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u22	To intervene by the Liberal Initiative party, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Mrs. Euro MPs, other individualities, Madam President of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola : Allow me - in this speech - to underline three challenges which I consider fundamental, two addressed to the European Union and one to the Portuguese Parliament. The first challenge to the European Union concerns the situation that follows the barbaric invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin. Ukraine is fighting for its sovereignty, for its territory and for its freedom, but in doing so it is also defending all of us and our way of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u25	The European Union has a duty to continue to demonstrate, as it has done so far, its solidarity and support for Ukraine and cannot hesitate as far as the accession process is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u27	contrary to what the Prime Minister, António Costa, defended, the road does not go through other alternatives or by claiming that, at the moment, there are no institutional or budgetary conditions to move forward with the process. The place of Ukraine is in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u29	Ukrainians are Europeans and are paying, with thousands of human lives, the price of their own and our freedom. [[Congratulations from the IL and PSD.]] Yes, the island of the Crow is as European, in the Azores, as is the island of Gozo, in Malta, as should Kharkiv, in Ukraine, or Chisinau, in Moldova, because it is also necessary to ensure that steps are taken towards their accession to the European Union. [[Applause from the IL.]] The second challenge I wanted to highlight concerns the European Union's own internal aspect. It is essential to strengthen the defence of the rule of law and democratic values before those who, like Viktor Orbán, in Hungary, do not hesitate to control the courts, social communication and the academy and limit rights, freedoms and guarantees. [[Applause from IL, PS and L.]] And those who support them, as Mr Ventura, here present,... [[CH protests.]] ... that a few days ago in Budapest stated that the Brussels dictatorship is a threat to our lifestyle, it is necessary to counter the firmness of the principles, using, if justified, the conditionality mechanism of the rule of law. [[Congratulations from IL, PS, PSD and L.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u30	That's why they're the fourth Portuguese match!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u31	on this subject, Mrs. Members, such as Prime Minister Antonio Costa, who considered that the rule of law should not be a criterion for European funds, are always a sign of weakness, when not more or less explicit complicity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u33	in the same way, they serve badly to defend the principles of the European Union those who, as also happens with the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, and with the PS, like to present themselves as paladins of liberal democracies on international stage, with smiles on the corridors of Brussels,... [[CH protests.]] ... but that, by mere opportunism, they do not deny the possibility of understanding with the Left Block — we have seen the radical discourse that has been preferred here today — or with the PCP. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Members, it is the same PCP whose then Secretary-General stated in 2016 that he intended to defeat the European Union. The same PCP that cannot now hide your support for Vladimir Putin. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u34	Have shame on your face, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u35	to the PS and the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, who, in the same line, are the same as those who do not insist on feeding the extreme right of this Parliament, for this benefit,... [[Protests and laughs from PS and CH.]] ... it must be said that all this constitutes a huge hypocrisy on the part of the Socialist Party and the Prime Minister. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS and CH protests.]] The third and final challenge, Mr. Members, it is addressed to this Assembly of the Republic, since it must also do its part in the preservation of the rule of law. The European Parliament called for the suspension of extradition agreements with the People's Republic of China and Hong Kong due to serious human rights violations there. However, despite the fact that the Liberal Initiative has already taken the vote three times, Portugal is the only country in the European Union to maintain extradition agreements with Hong Kong and China. Parliament must act decisively and unequivocally, suspending such extradition agreements. This is the challenge I want to put here. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Members of the Liberal Initiative, there is no doubt or reservation. We reaffirm here our full commitment to building a European space based on freedom, respect for fundamental rights, democratic principles and peace. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u36	I'm asking for a little more silence in the room. I give the floor to speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Party to Mr André Ventura. I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u37	Mr President of the Portuguese Parliament, Madam President of the European Parliament, Mr Dignatarios Presentes, Dear colleagues : Portugal is, as Mr President of the European Parliament, Europe. And we are pleased and proud to be of this Europe. of Europe, of Europe which we have founded together, of Europe to which we belong and of this nation, which, as long as they try to step on, is the oldest and most recognised in all of Europe. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, in this nation, in this Parliament, despite the diversity and what separates us, in this Parliament and outside it, we have never had doubts about where we belong and where we would be, on the day when a barbaric aggression condemned a country in Europe to poverty and suffering. That is why we also had no doubt on that day that we are Europe, because we know where we should be to protect what our civilization is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u39	Only that this is not only Europe that defends Ukraine, it is not only Europe that defends fundamental rights, nor is it Europe that we want for the future, as opposed to the great blocks of the world. This is Europe which has sunk into little transparency, corruption and the worst that has affected international institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u41	In addition to the Catargate itself, which involved the European Parliament in recent months, with prisoners, who still returned to Parliament yesterday, we lack brutal and significant transparency in the vaccine business, during the curfew 19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u43	And I cannot but say to you, Madam President, that it is regrettable and intolerable that the European Commission and the European Parliament are asking all the countries for transparency, but they are not able to ensure basic transparency, that it was to tell the Europeans with whom they made contracts, that they made contracts and how many millions were spent on the public record in anti-covid 19 vaccines. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, Madam President, Europe has had the largest entry of illegal immigrants since 2016. Only 1 million people — I repeat: 1 million people! — sought asylum in 2022 in the European Union. It was the year when more illegal immigration occurred in Europe, since the great crisis in 2016. It is not sustainable to continue living in a house without doors, where the garden is open to all, even criminals, terrorists and bandits. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam President, this European Union, made by democracy and freedom, cannot be the home of terrorists, the house of bandits, the house of corrupts and the house of those who want to destroy us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u44	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u45	A house without doors ceases to be a house and becomes an absolute banner in global space. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Our identity is in danger. of these illegal entries of immigrants, most came from Syria, Afghanistan and Tunisia. Madam President, Europe has a duty of humanity for all, but it has a duty of identity for its own people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u46	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u47	This Europe in which we live and in which we want to live is the Europe of Christian matrix in which we grow and develop ourselves. And we do not want to see one day the churches of this Europe replaced by mosques in all the cities of this country. [[Applause from the CH and from IL Rui Rocha.]] Even last week, four babies were stabbed in the French Alps by a Syrian refugee.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u48	Christian!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u49	It was worth the action of a Portuguese,... [[PS protests.]] ...who gave his body and his integrity to defend those families. Not to the terrorist and not to the Syrian, but to this wounded Portuguese, we pay our tribute here to what you did in the French Alps. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President and Mrs President, 21, 7% of the population of the European Union is at risk of poverty. I repeat: 21, 7 %, including this Portuguese territory, is at risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u50	It is! It's the lowest!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u51	The European Union, which multiplies political positions in the political space where there are more politicians than in any other part of the world, where the European Parliament spends on travel, places, lobbies, positions and advisers more than any other area of the world, is the same place where national agriculture, national fisheries and national industry were destroyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u53	It is the block where poverty and the risk of poverty accentuate the threat to our citizens. No, Madam President, we do not want to live in a lobby area and political advisers. We want to live in an area of prosperity, wealth and prosperity for all and not only for the politicians in Brussels, who make it survive. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] But we also do not want to live in Europe of blackmail, in Europe that threatened the candidate then the Italian Prime Minister that if she gained, she would have to see Brussels and that they would be here to take action, if necessary, or the European Parliament, which vetoed the Hungarian presidency of the next rotation of the European Union. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the European Parliament which is not the European Parliament of the people and of those who vote, it is the one whom the lobbyists of Brussels like and those who bow to their economic interests. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam President, we have to choose what Europe wants, if we want a Europe of ordinary citizens, the middle-class Europe that has founded, paid and built this European Union, the European Union of workers and families, of those who have built this space in which we identify ourselves, or if we want to be the union of lobbyists and the union of bureaucrats. The European Union must choose which space it wants to have and must choose which path it wants to follow in the future, if it wants to follow the path of common men and women who built this Europe or of propagandaLGBTI (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex) on children, of woke culture that destroys our civilization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u55	...the Islamization of Europe and the impoverishment of our citizens. Between one path and another, we will always choose the path that matters, the path of those you all ignore, but that is the way of those who pay our wages. It is the common Europeans for whom it is worth being here. The rest is lobby, the rest is Brussels, and that, Madam President, is not our Europe. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u56	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u57	President of the Assembly of the Republic, Madam President of the European Parliament, Members of the Government, Illustrious Guests, Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great honour that today, on behalf of the Democratic Social Party, we welcome the presence of the President of the European Parliament in the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic. Be very welcome to our Parliament. [[PSD and IL applause.]] Madam President, Roberta Metsola, as we have heard here, is a defender of the same Europe as we advocate. Commitment to peace, freedom, equality, democracy and human rights are values we share. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u58	In fact, Europe is more than a geographical reality. Europe is more than a political space. Europe is, above all, these common values. As Durão Barroso recalled in this same forum in the debate on the Amsterdam Treaty, European policy defended by the PSD is a policy of conviction and coherence. Nor could it happen otherwise, in a political force inspired by the legacy of Francisco Sá Carneiro. [[PSD applause.]] Francisco Sá Carneiro has always identified the national interest with the European project. And it is based on this legacy, which makes us very proud, that we should look at Europe today. Already in Schuman's famous statement, serving peace was the main objective. Today, this goal is more modern than ever. At the doors of Europe, Russia has been facing our inalienable democratic values for over a year. Just 478 days ago, day after day, Russia tries to turn Ukraine into a land of destruction and death. However, the European Union responded quickly, solidarity and transatlantic cooperation, including with the presence of you, the President of the European Parliament, in Kiev. The Union supported Ukraine, provided military assistance, political and diplomatic support, welcomed millions of people on the run and granted funding on an unprecedented scale. Of all the measures, let me highlight what I consider to be the most significant in political terms: the granting of Ukraine's status as a candidate for the European Union. [[PSD applause.]] Before the war, we lived in another time, in another Europe. My generation has grown to believe that Europe was an area of peace, freedom and democracy. We know Europe from behind, with an Interrail ticket, we made friends for life with the Erasmus programme and worked in any country in Europe with a sense of comfort and security. Today, much of what was given to us as we acquired is again questioned and we must continue to know how to respond to these challenges. It is increasingly people who desperately want to come to Europe precisely because of what we have built here. It wasn't easy the way down here. It was from the ruins of World War II that we built a new international order and institutions to sustain it. Ancient animosities had to be overcome. National pride had to be united with the commitment to the common good. This should continue to be inspiring for millions of people in Europe and around the world. [[PSD applause.]] Unprecedented times require unprecedented actions. From the outset, Europe cannot ignore the shortcomings in democratic rule states until it is a fundamental principle of our Union. They add issues such as artificial intelligence, climate change, migration and social issues related to globalisation, world phenomena that need to be tackled with the joint efforts of nearly 500 million European citizens. We are in favour of a Europe that is open to the world and not a Europe that is closed about itself. [[PSD and IL applause.]] Finally, we must also look at the Portuguese situation. Portugal has benefited—and much! — the European Union and, in particular, the European Funds. But the President, who will walk through the streets of our country and contact people, knows that more than half of Portuguese workers received less than 1000 € per month in 2022?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u59	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u60	It's not easy to live like this. Even less, when health, justice and education also show serious deficiencies in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] It would certainly be much worse without the European Union, but it is essential that the results reach the citizens. I end with the words of Konrad Adenauer in those early days of European construction: « European unity was a dream of few. It has become a hope for many. Today, it is a need for all of us. » Madam President, this is our way together. [[PSD and IL applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u61	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u62	Isn't that Eurico?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u63	We're 120! Just for you to understand, it's 120!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u64	Still!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u65	And by this way, next time we are more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u66	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u67	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Madam President of the European Parliament, Cara Roberta, Mrs. Members of the European Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by greeting, in a special way, the President of the European Parliament and convey to him the great pleasure of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group in receiving it in the Assembly of the Republic. It is of particular symbolism that it is the President of Parliament who represents the peoples of the States of the European Union as the first President of a Parliament to participate in a debate with Members in plenary session. The European Parliament, whose history is confused with the history of the European Union, reflects the gradual realization of the dream of a Europe of freedom, unity, peace, prosperity and solidarity among peoples born of the rubble of World War II, whose horrors were never repeated again. It is a Parliament whose origin dates back to the Parliamentary Assembly of supranational communities, which is in the genesis of the current European Union, which has been gaining powers, reflected in the Treaties, from Paris to Lisbon, over the last 70 years, and which has since 1979 become the only European institution directly elected by the citizens. It is an institution with a fundamental role in the architecture of the European Union, which, still far from desirable, has important powers in political decisions, from participation in the legislative process and competences in budgetary and control matters to the revision of the Treaties. The parliamentary front of European construction cannot, however, be limited to the European Parliament. The role of national parliaments, which has become increasingly important, is today well enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon and is equally relevant. In the Portuguese case, we have sought to take up this role fully. We are proud to say that we are one of the national parliaments that is most voting on European initiatives and we hope, with the ongoing amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and the deepening of the relationship with the European Parliament, to involve all Parliamentary committees in the decision-making process of European legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to emphasise the contribution of President Metsola, as Vice-President of the European Parliament responsible for relations with national parliaments, to strengthen our links with the European Parliament. We have witnessed their commitment and readiness, well exemplified in their participation and interest in some of the many initiatives we have carried out within the parliamentary dimension of the fourth Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, of the first half of 2020. The challenges that we are facing demand an increased intervention from parliaments, as the foundations of liberal democracies and the expression of the social contract, which, despite all the imperfections, puts the European Union in world leadership with regard to respect for democracy and the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The most pressing challenge facing us is the firm and determined response to Russia's unprovoked and justified criminal aggression against Ukraine, which, in addition to the destruction of human lives, families, entire communities and uncompromising economic, material and environmental damage, undermines the international order built in the post-war period and promotes a new arms race, with the consequent diversion of these resources, which should be channeled to human development and the defense of the planet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In Portugal, there is a broad consensus in society and in Parliament on the condemnation and application of sanctions to aggressor and of support and solidarity with Ukraine. Defending democracy against populism, protecting institutions and the rule of law and combating corruption are essential priorities for socialists to preserve the values in which the European social model is based, which we want to preserve and bind, perfected, to future generations. On these issues, I would like to commend the position of the President of the European Parliament for his example as the first European political chief to visit Kyiv, when very few dared to do so, and for his determination and firmness in the response given at the recent scandal about alleged corruption involving some Members of the European Parliament. I had huge questions to ask you, because this was a debate that was supposed to ask questions to the President of the European Parliament and therefore I cannot stop asking you two questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u69	The first question is about European elections. I would like to know if I fear that some kind of external interference may occur, such as what has happened in the United States of America and, if so, whether what we are and what we can still do until one year is enough to prevent it. The second issue obviously has to do with the invasion of Ukraine and its consequences with regard to the European Union. In addition to six countries already with the status of candidate countries, some of them with the accession process in progress for several years have now joined Ukraine, Moldova, and most likely in the short term Georgia. All these latter are in conflict, open or frozen, with Russia. How do you think this process can evolve in the short and medium term, taking into account the tremendous impact it will have on the financial and institutional architecture of the European Union and still taking into account the position of the Council, which, as far as I know, has not yet responded to the European Parliament's proposal, formulated about a year ago, to open a process of revision of the Treaties? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u70	I would like to thank all the speeches and now give the floor to the President of the European Parliament for the final intervention in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u71	Thank you very much for this reception and for this very heated debate. This is democracy in action and we definitely need too much. They will always be welcome to the European Parliament. I'm going to answer a few questions, one at a time. First of all, Mr Rui Tavares, thank you for reminding us of Article 51. the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Few of us know it by heart, but it is in fact an article that has dominated our constitutional discussions for many years and, especially in the context of enlargement, I agree with you, perhaps we should focus on it again. Parliament, even before the European Commission began to consider this issue for a long time, insists that the rule of law is not spoken only when a country is about to join the European Union. I can tell you, on the basis of my personal experience, of the difficulty and the time that it takes for the membership of a member, with all the challenges, all the objectives that it has to meet, then enter and then suddenly Article 2. it ceases to exist. And that's not all, Article 2. it cannot be implemented with a country that likes to think that, because it is in government, it can ignore all others. Thank you for mentioning Daphne Caruana Galicia. I can tell you that being someone who made a very active campaign, that is why I came to politics, that is why I went into politics, to fight corruption, but also because I believed that my country was in Europe. Nothing would have made me think a journalist would be murdered for doing his job. And it's been 68 months since she was murdered. And the answer we came from your country, from different countries, in order to identify and say that never again will a journalist be prevented from doing his job simply because he was investigating the truth. And I was asking awkward questions to politicians. That is not the European Union which I want to see, not in my own country, not anywhere. Thank you for that. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L applause.]] With regard to the climate, thank you very much for mentioning the legislative act on the restoration of nature. This was discussed yesterday in Parliament for about four hours and was effectively voted on in one of the committees of Parliament, the Committee on the Environment. It was an intense debate and most of the votes were divided to 50 - 50. The vote is not over, it will continue on 27 this month. But once again, it was democracy in action. Our Parliament takes very seriously its role as a co-legislator and we will do our work on this matter. As regards the protection of diversity and the protection of animals, I fully agree. The European Parliament is on your side in this matter. As far as Afghan women and Iran are concerned, what is going on is still one of our main concerns and the motto 'Women, Life, Freedom' now echoes everything we say and do. I am not just saying this because I am a woman and I am not saying it just because Parliament or the European Union preach democracy. The point is that when we see violations of rights, when women are murdered and when minorities are threatened, we defend them everywhere, both within and outside the European Union. But I would like to warn you, on the other hand, that, when we talk about the flexibility that is necessary, I agree. My predecessor, President Sassoli, who unfortunately died last year, used to talk about the cruel inflexibility of the rules. We found this flexibility during the pandemic. It was a hard work also carried out by the Portuguese Presidency. We cannot forget that. But it's easy to forget. It is easy to forget that the first instinct of the Member States was to close the borders as soon as the pandemic began. It is easy to forget this when we see projects to be implemented in the ecological and digital area and in the social area. I agree that more needs to be done, but please do not forget that this comes from the European Union. Please don't forget that. [[PS, PSD, PAN and L applause.]] If it weren't the European Union and the votes of your Members in the European Parliament, we wouldn't have the NextGenerationEU, we wouldn't have the REPowerEU and we wouldn't be discussing at the moment how to mitigate the social and economic impact of all measures on our citizens, our small businesses and our families. As far as equality is concerned, we have adopted the most advanced legislation on gender equality, we are talking about equal treatment with large majority and transparency, we are fighting domestic violence and feminicide, although this is still too common. There are still too many women to be murdered in our Union, and that is something we have to fight against, not only from the podiums, not only trying to attack the other, but understanding where our social challenges are, what we have failed and where we have failed. I will now talk about the review of interest rates. Yes, the review of interest rates is one of the most difficult decisions. This is how we try to combat growing inflation, but at the same time we need, as I said, to mitigate that impact. If our young people tell us that they are being excluded from the real estate market because of prices, we need to listen. If our small businesses tell us that they cannot continue to operate in this kind of environment, we need to solve this. One thing doesn't exclude the other. It is about doing what is right, but at the same time ensuring that we mitigate the effects. Now, with regard to Ukraine, Mrs Paula Santos, I chose to make an intervention, as I am doing here, in the Ukrainian Parliament on 1 April 2022. I ask you to tell the Ukrainian Members what you have said here. [[PS, PSD, CH, IL and L applause.]] Tell those Members that they have not seen their spouses for weeks, whose children cannot go to school, who are currently entering a conflict. It is not a question of sitting at the table and trying to get people to talk about; it is Russia's need to abandon Ukraine's territory, simply and simply, no more, no less. [[PSD, IL and PAN applause from the foot, and CH, BE, L and PS Members.]] Mr Rui Rocha, I agree with you. First of all, with regard to Ukraine, enlargement and the need to be prepared. Mr Capoulas Santos also referred to this. With regard to Moldova, I was there a few weeks ago. I was invited to give a speech at a concert in front of a crowd of 75 000 people. The first thing I thought was : « See the number of EU flags. What does the flag symbolize for millions and millions of people around the world? It symbolizes hope, symbolizes security, symbolizes values and, above all, symbolizes protection. We don't let them down when they're eyes on us. [[PS, PSD and IL applause.]] I said in my speech that this is the most European of all parliaments. I am, now, more convinced than before. But we need to do more to convince people to vote in one year, and vote in a responsible way. I'll tell you why I offer these words. He mentioned the scandal of corruption, Mr. André Ventura. You know, this has been hard for us. The easiest answer would have been: "This happens everywhere and, therefore, let's move on. » My colleagues and I said no. We looked at what went wrong, looked at what we could improve, looked at how we could be a parliament that is not surrounded by those who want to destroy the European project because of the actions of some people allegedly. [[PS, PSD, IL and PAN applause.]] He said that we all speak from Brussels, but today I am in Lisbon. I'm going to Braga tonight. Europe is here too. It is not Europe to tell Portugal what to do, but to listen to you and understand what we can do with our decisions to improve the lives of your citizens. He's talking about immigration. This year we marked 10. the anniversary of the greatest tragedy with migrants we witnessed in the Mediterranean. I come from an island that lies precisely in the middle of the Mediterranean. You know what we said 10 years ago? « Never again. Finally, we have a release in the Council, in the governments of the Member States, to move forward with regard to migration. Now you can say: "No way. The appeal I address to you is that you sit at the table and vote in favour, that you vote in favour of a balanced pact, a pact that takes into account the protection of borders, yes, that you understand the difficulties each country and each community faces. Some countries are under much greater pressure than others. For some countries, even the expression « Member State of 1. the line’ has changed over the years. For many countries, it is difficult to see that there is solidarity in other areas or in other crises, but not when it comes to people coming to our backs. But I ask you not to forget the following: if, for millions of people, it is still safer to enter a boat, simply because our policies have not worked, and your children, as we have seen two days ago, face an almost certain death, if that is safer than that child remaining on the ground, that must be at the heart of our policy, because we are talking about people. [[PS, PSD, IL, PAN and L applause.]] I tell you, I come from an island that has faced disproportionate responsibility, a difficult responsibility, but this pact that has been unlocked will try to find that balance between countries that need help, between saving lives, between protecting borders and talking to third countries with results. Yes, with results. Just analyze it and don't say it won't even discuss it. I'm asking you to do it. He also asked me which path he chose between what he was interested in and what he would choose. You know, for me, the way always goes by choosing honesty. So when I see that we can do better, we will be the first to talk about it. When I see that things are not going well, we will be the first to address the matter. However, there is one aspect on which I feel that we have achieved a lot and on which we can do more, Mr Capoulas Santos, with regard to misinformation. in an election in which we will have European legislation in force, even in this country, from 1 September — the so-called Digital Services Regulation — in which we will have 16-year-olds voting for the first time in four countries of the European Union, it is up to us to show them that Europe is important to them and that they can choose who represents them, because if they can choose, they can hold their representatives accountable. That is what I think we owe all our citizens. That is our position, which democracy basically means, and that is what we ultimately need, I think all of us, whether we agree on everything or not. At the end of the day, that's what we all depend on. So thank you very much for listening to me. Thank you, too, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, for mentioning the precariousness of work and housing and for referring to Konrad Adenauer. [[Applause from the CH and, standing up, PS, PSD, IL, PAN and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. The plenary session will now be interrupted for technical arrangements. We'll be back at 11 o'clock and 40 minutes. [[It was 11 hours and 32 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our work again. [[It was 12 hours and 1 minute.]] There is a small period for reading the dossier, so I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President, very good morning to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 830 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and Draft Resolution No 774 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We will move on to point 2 of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Law Projects Nos 742 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Guarantees the payment by postal voucher of extraordinary support to the most vulnerable families and their impermenability, 793 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the forms of payment of extraordinary support to the most vulnerable families by amending Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March, 800 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Add support for long-term unemployed persons to the set of minimum social benefits cumulative with the extraordinary support provided for in Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March) and 802 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure access to social support to persons without a bank account to order, amending Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March. To submit Bill No. 742 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March 2023, the Government again approved a set of measures to mitigate the effects of rising prices of essential goods and increasing inflation and to directly support the purchasing power of families. Without prejudice to its relevance to many families, it should be noted that this, however, corresponds to a lack of willingness to increase income and to control price increases. The first support, amounting to €30 per month per aggregate, paid per quarter, is directed to more vulnerable families, beneficiaries of minimum benefits or families benefiting from the social energy tariff. The second support is a complement to the extraordinary support for children and young people up to 4. the step, in the amount of 15 €. The government's forecast was that support would reach 3 million people and cost a total of EUR 583 million — more than previous support, of course, which is understood by the criteria used. Everything would be fine here, it would not be that the government decided, contrary to the extraordinary support last year, that this time this support would only be paid by bank transfer. Objectively, this decision excludes persons from the support they might be entitled to. At the last regimental hearing the Minister of Labour replied to this saying that they had even reached more people. However, the point is not, indeed, the point is that still, people who, by the criteria, are entitled to this support will certainly not receive it. And frankly, to tell people, as Mr. Minister did, that they can give the IBAN (international bank account number) to a family member or that they have to open an account with minimum banking services, it is not acceptable. First, because no one is required to have a bank account or to give the number of a bank account from another person to receive the support that is theirs by law. Secondly, because several social support continues to be paid by postal vouchers, even in cases where bank transfers are given priority. So what we are saying is that we cannot have a process that excludes, which is what is happening right now. Mrs. Members, from our point of view, the justifications given so far do not take up, until they are not excluded from the objective, also announced by the Government, that they can gradually pass everything on to bank transfer, on matters of security and reliability of these processes. We do not object to this. The question is that, during the process, it is not acceptable to leave people out and that is exactly what we want today with the bill, i.e. to end this injustice and that no one, who is entitled to this support, can be excluded. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u77	You're here now! You didn't hear and you're saying, "All right"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u78	To submit Bill No. 793 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Does it make any sense that a citizen, in order to receive extraordinary support decided by the Government, even if insufficient in the face of worsening living conditions, must be obliged to have a bank account? Does it make any sense that the government does not allow any more forms of payment of this support, which is not only by bank transfer? at other times it was possible, why not now? If there are reformers whose reform is paid by postal value, why can't these support be paid by this way either? These are questions to which the Government does not answer. He claims he does not want to leave anyone behind, but, in the first round, he leaves behind all the citizens who, even if they meet the criteria established to receive this support, only because they do not have a bank account. The government talks about inclusion, but it is the government itself that is, at the outset, excluding all these citizens, all families that are vulnerable, simply because they do not have a bank account.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u81	The CFP brings up a proposal to overcome this issue, which would not have been necessary if the government had solved the problem or, more than that, had it not created this problem. When we faced the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security with this issue, what the Minister said was: « If you do not have an account, then indicate the account of a family member». This is totally unacceptable, and a statement of this nature is of enormous gravity. The CFP, with the initiative which brings the debate today, proposes that the payment of this extraordinary support may also be made by postal form as well as we propose that these support should not be the subject of penhora. The situation of workers, pensioners and families with the most difficulties is indeed extremely serious, but what the Government reveals with this position on this matter is a great insensitivity and, more than that, a lack of will to solve a fundamental problem we are currently facing. The living conditions are worse, the increase in the cost of living is present, but the government refuses to value wages and pensions, so that people can regain purchasing power. The support that is given is, in fact, insufficient in view of the reality that we are currently living, and yet a number of limitations are introduced to prevent them from reaching more families. If you really want to solve the problem, today there is this opportunity in the Assembly of the Republic to at least allow the extension of the forms of payment of this support so that in fact what the Government says it does not want to leave anyone out, that is, in fact, this way, and that these families are effectively assured of the support that has been decided upon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u82	To submit Bill No. 800 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address this House to discuss a matter which is both urgent and of vital importance to our society — the imperative need of the State to provide effective support to long-term unemployed. We know that long-term unemployment can present numerous challenges for individuals and their families. Loss of income, emotional pressure, disunculation of the labour market are factors that can lead to extreme economic and social fragility. In Portuguese reality, the scourge of long-term unemployment is particularly relevant, taking into account its social and economic impact, as well as its implications, at the level of social cohesion. We are talking about people who, year after year of relentless search, cannot find an opportunity to return to the world of work, facing the anguish of uncertainty and demotivation. The role of the State in this context, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's fundamental. Through training, retraining, employment incentives and social protection measures, the State can help reduce the duration of unemployment, improve the employability of long-term unemployed and reduce the negative impact of unemployment on the lives of these people. More than that, it is the responsibility of the State to create mechanisms that can guarantee a minimum of dignity and security for those who, even after having exhausted all their possibilities, have not yet been able to return to the labour market, which implies the adoption of financial support measures that are capable of protecting these people from poverty and social exclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u85	However, it is imperative that these measures are not perceived as an end in themselves, but as a means of achieving an end, that of the reintegration of these people into the labour market. Work is a duty, but it is also a fundamental right of the human being, and unemployment, particularly when long-term, is a serious offense to that right, by paying attention to the dignity and personal realization of those who want to work. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to ensure this right and to protect workers in situations of unemployment. And the obligation to grant funds to the unemployed, i.e. the duty to ensure the necessary subsidies, for the subsistence of the unemployed and their families, is a duty deriving from a fundamental principle of moral order. It is in this context that we bring to the consideration of this House a proposal which we believe is fundamental to better serve one of the most vulnerable fringes of our society: the long-term unemployed. As you know, Decree-Law No. 21-A of 2023 established a set of measures to mitigate the effects of inflation, supporting the purchasing power of the most vulnerable families, measures of an exceptional nature in the current context of economic and social crisis. This diploma is therefore a significant effort to support those who need it most at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u87	One of these measures is extraordinary support, which is cumulative with several minimum social benefits. However, the listing of the minimum social benefits eligible for accumulation with extraordinary support omits a crucial benefit: support for long-term unemployed. The long-term unemployed are, as has been said recently, a portion of the population that faces very particular challenges and that are especially vulnerable to economic crises, such as the one we are currently living in. The support that these employees receive, after the end of the period of granting the social unemployment allowance, is often the only source of income, and serves to cover basic and unfeasible needs. We therefore believe that this support for long-term unemployed should be included in the minimum social benefits and can be accumulated with extraordinary support. This is what we propose in our bill. This inclusion would not only extend the hand to a particularly vulnerable group, but also ensure a fairer redistribution of available resources. This legislative step would reinforce the State's social commitment to ensure the well-being of all citizens, regardless of their working situation. We therefore appeal today to all Members of this House not to place ideologies or health fences above the interests of the people, and to consider this proposal to include support for long-term unemployed in the lists of minimum social benefits, eligible for accumulation with extraordinary support. This is a fundamental step in ensuring that we are doing everything we can to support who seems to have been forgotten by this government. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u88	To submit Bill No. 802 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One in ten Portuguese adults has no bank account in Portugal. Although there is no complete study on the socio-economic conditions of people who do not have a bank account, the few data available tell us that we speak of people who are more vulnerable and, in particular, older people. We know that banks — even without a legal basis — require proof of address to people who want to take account of minimum banking services, even if the person does not have a fixed address, and evidence of profession and employer, whether the person is unemployed or even homeless. As this is a clear reality for all, in our country there is a system in which payment of social benefits, such as old-age pension, disability pension, family allowance or social benefits for inclusion, can be made either by bank transfer or by postal voucher. This possibility was maintained in all social support arising from the social crisis generated by the escalation of inflation, as was the case of extraordinary support to income and social benefits holders paid in October 2022. However, surprisingly and against what is the consolidated practice in our country, extraordinary support for families most vulnerable to the mitigation of the effects of inflation, created in March, only provides for payment by bank account, not allowing payment by postal value. We are sure that this has been a step-by-step from the government, but the truth is that it is causing worrying social injustices and that it has to have an alternative that does not have to exclude families from support that is fundamental, so that they can better cope with inflation. The NAP proposes the correction of this injustice, allowing this support to be paid by postal voucher to families without a bank account, which is the minimum of the minimum. It is a matter of improving payment procedures, a measure which will not have any budgetary impact, since the scope of the beneficiaries and the support budget are already fixed and are not amended with this proposal. We also believe that it is essential to ensure the impermenability of support given to the most vulnerable families, as well as to complement extraordinary support for children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u90	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing a set of proposals aimed at filling a gap in the implementation of the extraordinary support decided by the Government in March. In other words, the government that obliges, and well, all companies to accept non-bank payment means, now obliges families to take bank account to receive the support they are entitled to. Result? It is estimated that there are more than 200 000 people who were unable to receive those 30 € per month to which they were entitled, and many of them also failed to receive the supplements for children and young people, decided at the same time. All proposals are therefore welcome to allow support to be paid by the postal value, although they are already more questionable those that also provide for the impermissibility of these support, because the Civil Procedure Code already provides that the most vulnerable cannot see their incomes in this situation. Now, if the support is extraordinary, the incompetence of the PS and the failures of this government are the least extraordinary thing there is, because the PS Government seems to have specialized in making clear promises and disastrous executions. And before everyone gets killed, I have a number of examples here. Last year, those 125 €, which were to be paid to the families they had the right to, did not reach all the Portuguese who had the right and arrived to some thousands of Portuguese who had no right to them. The failure of pensioners in the bank to pay half the pension—I do not know if they remember—is only now completed in May.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u93	to pensioners who received half-pension at that time, in November, it was said that it has no tax impact, that it does not alter the scale of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and that it is not taxed. They forgot to warn that in the year 2023, the correction of the non-reimbursement would cause treasury difficulties, and all of us should have received complaints in our parliamentary groups about it. But there are more clear promises and disastrous executions. I quickly recall the genuine fiasco which was VATucher, which did not deserve the accession of more than 17 % of traders and very few consumers ; the fiasco of Solidary Bilha, whose membership did not exceed 12 % of those who could be beneficiaries ; the delays in the validation of the IRS declarations of those who have Young IRS. You say it's a mere delay, but it's not! There are tens or hundreds of young people who are unable to make contracts with the bank, who require them to confirm and validate the IRS declaration for the previous year because the AT ( Tax and Customs Authority ) does not validate the declarations. This is not to mention the difficulty of the AT, which remains, despite the interpretations and even laws adopted in this Parliament, with regard to the interpretation of what constitutes the most favourable assessment of the certificates of incapacity of more than 60 %. My gentlemen, therefore, we are discussing extraordinary support, but for me, what is truly extraordinary is how the PS considers itself an extraordinarily good government, when these examples all and what the Liberal Initiative shows here every week proves that it is extraordinarily bad. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u94	You now have the floor to speak in order to speak in the debate, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u95	Mr President, dear colleagues : This debate has all the relevance, since it is a problem that, although it is detailed in the general framework of support, the fact is that, for those who need to receive, it counts a lot, it counts everything! So it makes every sense that you can receive it, too, by postal value. However, we can take advantage of this debate to think, in a broader way, of the whole question of support. We had extraordinary crisis support, before, we had extraordinary support during the pandemic and we had governments, on the right or on the left, who implemented emergency basic performance systems during the pandemic. We all know that, with the major changes that we will have in the world of work and the economy — with artificial intelligence and with a series of other things that will increase productivity, but steal jobs — we have to rethink how we support, not only from the point of view of technological infrastructure, but also not leaving out people who are digitally or technologically more excluded. And so when the Free, in the election campaign that elected us all, spoke of carrying out a pilot test of unconditional basic income, some people said: "No, because we are against unconditional basic income, nor do we want to know how it works in practice." Others said: "No, why would it be good if we managed to find a way to have unconditional basic income for everyone, then why are we going to do a pilot test? Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, a pilot project serves precisely for this: we would have identified administrative problems, technical and infrastructure problems — if any, in a pilot project, in a small community, but where all these problems are — and perhaps when we had to provide extraordinary support, we would already know how to overcome these problems. So next time we can test to prevent our fellow citizens—probably, of course, those who need the most—don't stay out of support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u96	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing here is an inexplicable action by the Government — indeed, another unexplainable action. If not, let us see: last March, the government approved extraordinary support for families to mitigate the effects of inflation and to help combat the problem of loss of purchasing power. Within these support, it was announced and the 30 € support for the most vulnerable families was realized, which would be paid every three months. It was, then, a quarterly support of 30 €, to pay from three to three months, very well. The government announces this support, implements it, but says it only receives those who have bank accounts. What happens to those who don't have a bank account? He doesn't get any money!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u99	Therefore, the most vulnerable families need this support that the government has announced would give and that it is therefore obliged to give, but it does not give, because without explanation it obliges people to have bank accounts. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD has already had the opportunity to question the Government, either by a written question, or by a statutory hearing, on this matter and on the reason for this injustice. Indeed, the Minister pointed out, among other aspects, that any citizen could open a basic service account at reduced cost. Step aside: someone who has difficulties and is therefore eligible for extraordinary support will have to have costs in order to be able to receive such extraordinary support! Only a socialist government, with total social insensitivity, can say something like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u100	All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u101	Only a government that announces, but that actually does not want to pay, can have such an action. This is what's happening. Therefore, the PSD accompanies all initiatives aimed at inverting this situation because this, contrary to what Mrs Inês de Sousa Real said, in fact, unfortunately was not a failure of the government, was an option of the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u102	There he is! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u103	... that it has been called to attention and that it continues not to pay fundamental support to families. This government — and it is good to remember — has already raised more revenue by April than it planned by the end of the year, so it has money, but it is a government that fails families, fails people and fails those who need it most. [[PSD applause.]] We therefore hope that today the Socialist Party will cease to be the Government's resonance box and correct this tremendous injustice and allow those who do not have a bank account to receive this support for the postal value, as is the case with the other support and the payment of the reforms. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u104	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we have in our hands at the moment comes from the way the Socialist Party chooses to intervene through a public social security system, robust and aware of its obligations, as an important part of the social contract that it establishes with its citizens. Indeed, ideologies greatly condition the way the State is positioned in relation to social support, either in the form or in the amount to be allocated. There are those who believe that the less state, the better state, allowing the market to function freely and giving to charity those who do not have a place in that market. There are those who believe in the disciplinary and tax power of the State, until the time of managing social support. And there are those, like the Socialist Party, who believe that social intervention is based on concepts such as solidarity, dignity and autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, in a difficult period in the lives of Europeans in general, and many Portuguese in particular, due to high inflation rates, the Portuguese Government decided to allocate a transitional amount, quarterly payment, to particularly vulnerable families benefiting from social benefits or the social energy tariff. The procedure is simple: the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology informs social security beneficiaries of the social energy tariff and social security refers to the allocation of support automatically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u107	This automatic allocation implies greater justice and the certainty that the shame of poverty will not force anyone to demand what is theirs, by law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a vision of respect for the user, in everything contrary to the allocation of support such as the creation of social meals — a measure created by the last Government of the Portuguese right — of which there was no good memory, nor a record of good practice of intervention, so that neither its creators speak of this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] With a very different view, the extraordinary support for the most vulnerable families and the extraordinary complement for children and young people have, in their origin, the idea of helping financially who is most precise and, therefore, the decree provides that they do not compensate for debts charged by social security and the Tax and Customs Authority and other benefits of the social security system, and we consider it appropriate to ensure that they are not punishable by other ways. We also define these support as solidarity, because it includes social security users already covered by the social benefits scheme such as the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of insertion, the social disability pension, the social benefits supplement for inclusion, the social pension of old age, the family allowances of 1. o is 2. the steps, social unemployment subsidies — including here, the allowances allocated to long-term unemployed proposed by the Arrival, so this party's proposal does not add rights to these beneficiaries, because they are already included in these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government of the Socialist Party works to develop the country and improve people's lives, supporting them when necessary, but working to have certain accounts that allow us to allocate these support when it is best and most necessary for all. Let us bear in mind that what is best for all is best for each one of us, always reserving the right to individual dignity. And if there is any doubt that we are on the right track, here it is enough to mention the numbers of economic growth and the sustained size of the risk of poverty since 2015, removing 695 000 people from this risk and putting us at a level below the European Union average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we continue to say that they count on us for social advancements, because they are part of our history, of our ideological matrix. Social progress and well-being have all done, and it is part of the 50 years of life of the Portuguese Socialist Party and it is still our Azimuth today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u108	It's not being part of the PS, it's being part of the families!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u109	The honourable Member has a request for clarification, but I do not have time to answer. I wish Mrs Clara Marques Mendes had the floor to make this request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u110	Mr President, Mrs Paula Reis, we are certainly not in the same debate, but I will explain. We are in a debate in which we are demanding the government and asking the Socialist Party to do justice once and for all, because what is at stake here is that the government has promised support to the most vulnerable families and is not paying them, because they do not have bank account! [[PSD applause.]] This is what you are in charge of, Your Honor. What we say is this: if this support is to mitigate the effects of inflation, if it is a support that is recognised as lacking to families, why is this support not paid by postal value, like all the other support? on hearing the speech of the honourable Member, it remains to be said that you have not had the courage to say how many people have received this support. And worse, they're ashamed to say how many have not received this support. [[PSD applause.]] And this, Madam Member, allows us to say the following: either you change your position, follow the initiatives that are here, allow the people who have been created the expectation that they will have support and vote in favour, or once again you show the great social insensitivity, the great social injustice that this government has had in its work! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u111	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u112	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the initiative we are bringing here is aimed at solving a specific problem, which is to prevent people from being out of the criteria set by the government, from the support that the Government has decided to give to families with greater difficulties. But let me add the following: we are talking about support which, by itself, is extremely insufficient. What would be needed was indeed to value wages and pensions, as we have defended, but the Socialist Party and the Government continue to refuse to do so. This, yes, would enable workers, reformers and families to improve their living conditions and to cope with the difficulties they have experienced in recent times. But, in conclusion, Mr President, one last issue. Come here and say that if you're on the right path, it can only be a joke of bad taste. A joke of bad taste with those who, every day, are counting on the torsons to survive by the end of the month. A joke of bad taste for people whose wages have been losing real value and who do not have a prospect of regaining purchasing power. A joke of bad taste, indeed, when referring to a set of economic indicators, when the truth is that people's lives have worsened, and the government does nothing to improve it, it is only contributing to the impoverishment of workers and pensioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u113	To close the debate, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: It is a bit difficult to make apparently simple debates, of corrections of injustices that have been created, when the Socialist Party does not want to see the reality ahead of it. Madam Member, there are several matters that are absolutely simple. Point one, no one in this country is obliged to have a bank account, that's the first one. Unless the legislation is changed or the Constitution is changed in this sense, no one in this country is obliged to take bank account. That's the first point. Secondly, on the question of simplification and the argument which has already been used by the Minister of Labour, in the statutory hearing, concerning the claim that these support is gradually and preferably paid through bank transfer. As I said earlier, we are not against the simplification of processes, nor are we against the fact that they can be done preferably through bank accounts. The problem, and I repeat again, is that, in the process, such simplification cannot be perverted by injustice, nor can the fact that someone does not have a bank account mean that he is left out. We have already said this to exhaustion and it seems so simple, so simple, so simple, but the Socialist Party has not been able to understand what is at stake. In addition to anyone being obliged to have a bank account, tell people that they can give the number of a family member's bank account paying attention to the autonomy of the individual. The honourable Member mentioned the autonomy of the people who receive these support, but when a minister in this country tells people to give the number of the bank account of the nephew, uncle or grandfather, that is, this makes no sense at all. But, in fact, the great injustice is that the government has placed extraordinary support for a particular range of the population on the table. However, what you are saying is that there are people who have the criteria to receive these support and who will not receive them. So what we appeal to, as well as all the projects that are on the table today, is that they can be approved, so that we may eventually be able to work what needs to be worked out in specialty, to end such simple injustice. On the other hand, I read the wording that is proposed in the Project of the Left Block, which is no different from the wording that exists for other social benefits that are currently paid in this way: « The payment of extraordinary support is made preferably by bank transfer through the International Bank Account Number ( IBAN ), contained in the social security information system, or by the Vale de Correio, which is what exists for many other social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u116	And this formulation, which is the one that exists for many other support, is the one that ensures that those who have the right to social benefit or extraordinary support are not left out and are not excluded from receiving. So the only appeal you can make here is that the Socialist Party admits the mistake it has made, admits that we are facing social insensitivity and that we can, once and for all, quickly correct this injustice, so that it does not spread for much longer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u117	We now move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 662 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Immediate measures to support agricultural and livestock sectors in combating the effects of drought, together with in general draft Law No 797 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Creates a national plan to support precision agriculture and with Resolution Projects Nos 146 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthen support for Portuguese farmers in drought, 380 / XV / 1. ( IL) — Regadium Reform, 672 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the agricultural sector in the face of the effects of drought of 2023, 699 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Promote the allocation of incentives to the agricultural sector within the framework of the RPP to improve water efficiency, energy and the strengthening of the circular economy, 713 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of incentives for the production of vegetable crops, 721 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary measures to minimize the effects of drought and 728 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the immediate implementation of measures to support agricultural and livestock sectors in order to combat the impacts of drought. To present the Resolution Project No 662 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The torrential rains and the hail that have fallen in some regions of the country in recent weeks, which can alleviate water needs in the nearest times, have not resolved a situation that was, is and continues to be worrying. In fact, they added even more problems where the situation was already difficult. in this framework, the first words of the CFP are of solidarity to the people and to the farmers of Murça, Foz Côa and Meda, faced with high levels of destruction, but also words of demand to the government, to act fast support measures to these farmers, working people, who do not give up those territories, despite the difficulties they are faced every day by the right policy and the common agricultural policy (CAP) which crushes them. Mrs. Members of this debate, scheduled by the CFP, on the measures necessary to combat the effects of drought, in which we present the immediate measures to support the agricultural and livestock sectors, it is important first of all to recall the history of the drought support last year. It is that, after announcing support in February, when the drought situation we were facing for months had already been realized, and calling for support, after, late in asking for help from the European Union, the government announced after the announcement of millions, and these support was then turned into support because of the effects of sanctions and war and then wrapped up with support because of the crisis. Always, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the same million. As a result of all this trouble, some support has only arrived at the end of the year and thousands of small and medium-sized farmers have not even received any support. This year, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go the same way. The announcements behind millions of announcements are already made, support to reach farmers, or see them, and support for combating inflation is already being turned into support for combating drought. Well, the government may, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking in crisis aid, which no longer convinces anyone, because, as we saw last year, the result was less than EUR 9 million in support. This is the solidarity of the European Union. Otherwise, let us see: the European Commission announced two days ago that it will activate EUR 330 million for the agricultural crisis reserve, a European Union reserve for all Member States affected by drought. The question we are making is as follows, Mr. Members: of these 330 million, how many Portuguese farmers can count on, and, above all, who will be the farmers to whom these support will come? The CFP Parliamentary Group, aware that it is urgent to respond to the problems posed by drought, argues that it is necessary to recognize the difficulties that drought conditions represent in agricultural production and to take measures necessary to protect production and ensure the continuity of farms. Today we are presenting a resolution for the Government to take necessary measures and procedures to ensure that crisis aid is immediately implemented within the framework of the common agricultural policy, so that affected farmers can access these extraordinary support more quickly; adopt a programme of water management measures for agricultural purposes; create extraordinary support for the purchase of animal feed; develop and implement a national feed plan; and establish a programme of measures to promote increased storage capacity and water availability. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u119	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiative for the Book.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u120	Mr President, Dear colleagues : I would like to begin by welcoming the CFP, by scheduling this debate on immediate measures to support the agricultural and livestock sectors to combat the effects of drought. It is a debate that is perfectly timely and perfectly timely and to which the Free will wishes to add its contribution, in a debate which is on immediate support, trying to extend it a little more in time. We must create routines, institutional habits, both in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Government, so that, when we are responding urgently to a crisis, we may be preventing future crises we have already seen. It is in this sense that the Book has proposed the creation of a national plan for support for precision agriculture, an agriculture that is more sustainable, which uses less resources to obtain more income and which attempts, as far as possible, to escape the trap of declining returns, for example, in the use of fertilizers. The same fertilizers used at the same rate, in the same plots, always in the same way, give increasingly decreasing returns. How can you break this cycle and start a virtuous cycle of more yield, quality and rise in value scale for our agriculture? On the one hand, with the transfer of knowledge from the institutions that collect data from the academy, pass this data to agricultural holdings, including small and medium-sized farms, families, who are always below the water line of sustainability, and with this technical support explained, also reused later by the academy to adapt practices, we can help them to be increasingly sustainable. The knowledge economy, when we talk about it, we're not just talking about people sitting behind computers. It is in agriculture, and in particular in precision agriculture, where some Member States already bet a lot, that we can find the way of the knowledge economy also adapts to our land, to each cubic meter of it, to the surface and where the roots of the plants are buried. But the knowledge economy must also be a circular economy itself. Let us not forget that our farmers, generation after generation, know their territory well, know some cultures that are now of added value, although they may not know which markets are of added value. Therefore, a national plan for support for precision agriculture, as we propose here, is not just about passing raw data, from the academy and scientific institutions, to farmers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u121	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u122	... it is also about knowing on the ground, talking to farmers and bringing their knowledge acquired for further reuse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u124	Let us therefore hope that this debate will produce, as it is appropriate to say, fruits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u125	You only spent one minute, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u126	To present the projects of the Arrival, I now give the floor to Mr. Pedro Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u127	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members: Farmers and fishermen know that they cannot count on the Socialist Party, and much less on their management partners, and have many doubts about how to count on the PSD. Over the last 27 years, the Socialist Party has been running for 20 years, counting on the collaboration of the parties in the far-left of this House and also, on time, with the PSD. in these decades we have seen so many and aggravated droughts, once again today, discussed here today, and we want to attach these droughts with two initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of Arrival. But we also saw so many other calamities: fires, soil degradation, progressive aridity, desertification and abandonment of lands. All of this is not new phenomena, they are old realities. All these calamities have been growing year by year. Not because they're fatal, sirs. Members, but because they are the consequences of the bad political decisions of the Portuguese governments, which are aimed at an anti-Soberanist and globalist agenda, imposed by Brussels on our valuable territories and nations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u128	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u129	European funds to support agriculture!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u130	Excellences, a people who leave the countryside and the sea is a nation that gives free of charge to their food sovereignty, becoming dependent on other nations. Unfortunately, this is what is happening in Portugal and through the hands of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the only way to understand the political weight loss of the primary sector, agriculture and fisheries within our Council of Ministers. This, in contrast with the increase in pendor, animalism and eco-alarmism. This is only the reason why Maria do Céu Antunes is still allowed to occupy the pasta of agriculture. Our ability to feed the Portuguese decreases from year to year, food sovereignty is at risk, agricultural fields are abandoned and fishing fleets rot in ports. It is already clear to all that it is intentional to maintain an incapacitating and inoperative ministry. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can apply here the image of the vineyard, recently used by the former President of the Republic, Prof. Dr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. in this image, in a way, Mr President also took responsibility for not cutting off old and dry branches from which no fruit has been produced. It is not only the Ministers João Galamba, João Gomes Cravinho or Maria do Céu Antunes, but it is the Prime Minister himself, António Costa, who should be beaten by the President himself of the Republic, who by sight perceives the pota. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is this government that needs a deep potion, to allow the seed of hope to give life to the fields, the sea and our people, finally, a handful of fruitless trees to give Portugal a new hope. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, our farmers and our fishermen, who put bread at our tables, eagerly expect this House to cut off definitely with the ecomarxist policies, always against the dams, against the irrigation, against the true entrepreneurs of the primary sector, these ecomarxist policies that, because they have such obvious consequences, can only aim at the destruction of agriculture and fisheries, both sectors that have been identified for millenniums as fundamental to the autonomy and sovereignty and also the freedom of the peoples. Let's see: Portugal is sometimes seen with a cereal stock for only 15 days, in a country where we depend on 90 % of imported wheat to have bread on our tables. Excellences, the level of domestic wheat supply is 5 % and the total grain is 20 %. And just to give another example, we imported 40% of pig meat to our tables, coming from Spain. All of this is a consequence of the policies in force, which cause the food deficit in Portugal to continue to grow and be of the highest in Europe. The policies imposed by António Costa and the maintenance of an incompetent ministry are only a light update of Lenin and Mao policies,... [[L rice and PS Members.]] ...are an heir to the great hunger and Holodomor policies. [[Congrats from the CH.]] After the common agricultural policy, Antonio Costa knows that, by the destruction of primary production, both slavery and the dependence of the people and let farmers aspire for compensation and imposed asphyxiation. But read our lips well. No, arriving will not allow the death of Portuguese agriculture and fishing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u131	Mr. Pedro Pinto, do you ask for the floor to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u132	Yes, Mr. President, Mr. Pedro Frazão finished his speech when there were still two seconds to finish his time... [[PS, PCP and L rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u133	Will call VAR(video assistant reference)!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u134	When I finished talking, there was also one second left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u135	...and makes all the difference between negative time and positive 2 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u136	All right. And you don't know the tenths of seconds? One more precision was made. I ask the services, then, to discount that minus 1, plus 2, is plus 1. To present the draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the third time, in 15 days, this Parliament is dealing with the issue of water. So let's hear again about the scarcity of water, the restrictions to be imposed on water consumption, the dramatic consequences of the lack of water,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u138	It's dry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u139	... especially for the depopulation and impoverishment of the interior. All this is fatalism, I know it's very Portuguese, but it's not useful because it resigns to the current situation. In the Liberal Initiative, we do not like fatalism or resignation, we prefer to have a proactive and positive attitude. Here we will try to show solutions that focus on the best use and quality of available water, now and in the future, and on finding that drought crops are increasingly unviable, agrological and economically, at the same time as a recent study by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, tells us that the standard production value of 1 ha of irrigation is six times, Mr. Members — six times — greater than the best crops of drought. Therefore, the draft resolution presented here today goes on this proactive and positive line and, throughout its 15 points of resolution, aims to urge the Government of the Socialist Party to start a genuine reform of the stream with courage and ambition. in this draft resolution, we plan to monitor and advertise all the funds provided for in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), in the PDR 2020 ( Regional Development Programme ), in the PEPAC ( Strategic Plans of the Common Agricultural Policy ), even though all the funds of these programmes together represent no more than one third of the needs for irrigation and water use identified by EDIA ( Development and Infrastructure Company of Alqueva, SA) and Fenareg ( National Federation of Regantes of Portugal ), in the most recent study. It is proposed to amend the legal-legal framework to finally conclude the water efficiency plan of Alentejo — the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has been here for days and said it is soon — and to move quickly to implement the water efficiency plans also of the West, Viseu and Trás-os-Montes. Let's see if we don't expect as much as that of Alentejo. It is also intended to monitor and prevent water losses in irrigation distribution networks. We have been talking about this for years, there is no money to make proper monitoring and monitoring; to make determined progress in the expansion of the irrigation areas and to put this expansion into modernizing water systems, which, in my view, should be the main focus of PEPAC and is almost a footnote; in the desalination solutions, which we have discussed last week, based on renewable energies, in which we are so late in relation to Spain and that we can now have tests to make public-private partnerships like those of Mira's watersheds. And in the assessment, without prejudice — we do not have them at first — we propose ambitious alternatives, whether water transfer between water basins, water reuse systems and the use of rainwater, whether in the recharge of aquifers. Because, sirs. Members, a modern recreation plan is the only solution that can, at the same time, guarantee social cohesion and the interior, with all that this implies, even in the prevention of forest fires, and at the same time ensure the viability of Portuguese agriculture and its contribution to a more sustainable economy. For that, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, courage is needed, ambition is needed, and a ministry of agriculture is needed that works and is respected by farmers. Our unhappiness is that with this PS government we have none of the three. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u140	I congratulate all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. As we continue our debate, I now have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Ramalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome all the parties that bring today to debate in this House their contributions to the construction of policies that make national agriculture more resilient and competitive, with genuine concern for food sovereignty and security, while expressing the need to immediately turn to a state of grave emergency in which most of our farmers and livestock producers live today. In fact, after a year of 2022 very difficult for the agricultural sector, marked by the inflationary crisis of the production factors and by the drought that devastated the national territory — which culminated in a loss of income in the order of 12 % over the previous year — farmers and livestock producers are again confronted with uncertainty and the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u143	About 40 % of the Portuguese territory is at this time in severe and extreme drought, being the most affected Alentejo and Algarve regions, with water percentage values in the soil, according to the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere), less than 10 %. This situation is strongly affecting agricultural activity, compromising many of the spring/summer crops and, in particular, the livestock production that, without access to pasture and water, faces many difficulties to ensure animal feeding. [[PSD applause.]] In despair, many of the producers are already opting for the sale of their actual animal. Unfortunately, the loss of income for many farmers is already a certainty this year again. therefore the PSD, after hearing various organizations in the sector and in the face of the total inaction of the Ministry of Agriculture, presented on 4 May the draft resolution now under discussion, which aimed, above all, the formal recognition by the Government of the existence of severe and extreme drought in part of the national territory, so that the necessary support would be made available to the farmers affected. The alleged formal recognition of the existence of drought, however, has already happened. As for the necessary support, farmers are still waiting. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u144	Sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u145	It is true that much of the territory of our neighbour Spain is also in severe and extreme drought and its farmers are also in a difficult situation. However, there is a big difference: while the Portuguese Government is still considering new support measures for farmers and livestock producers to cope with the drought situation, as Lusa reported on 17 May, and it is expected that the European Commission will allow the use of the available instruments of the common agricultural policy to help farmers, the Spanish Government has already approved, since 11 May, a package of support measures for its farmers - see - at an overall amount of EUR 784 million which, only in direct State aid, already reaches EUR 636 million. The Spanish Government did not expect it to rain or others to go to the despair of its farmers. He acted at the right time and on his own initiative. The Portuguese Government has been slow and slow, always waiting for the money from the agricultural crisis reserve that Brussels will be distributing to the Member States most affected by drought, which will be around EUR 330 million, which will be shared by those, not knowing what value Portugal will play today. As we have been trying to get used to, this socialist government is good to feed expectations, but weak to realize, so it is very possible that when the aid comes to farmers — if they arrive — it is already, as it has happened in the recent past, too late. [[PSD applause.]] On 17 May, the Minister for Agriculture said that it was her conviction that there would be no lack of water for Portuguese agriculture this year, no drastic measures are necessary for now. In turn, the Minister of the Environment recently, after the decision to reduce by 20 % the share of water for agriculture in the dams of Odeleite and Beliche, announced the possibility of new restrictions on the agricultural sector. However, agriculture is an absolutely priority and strategic sector for any country that wishes to assert its sovereignty in full. However, without water it is not possible to promote agricultural production and ensure food safety. It should be recalled that, despite all the resilience and work of our farmers, we still have a deficit in our very high food balance. Structural measures are urgently needed to respond to climate change, which is increasingly a reality in the national territory. We must be able to promote water retention and storage and take where it is really necessary, to extend the agricultural area of irrigation, to continue to work on solutions that promote the integrated and more efficient use of our water resources. Farmers are trying to do their part. Precise agriculture is a path that is already being made by a large part of the sector. The protection and promotion of environmental sustainability is a day-to-day mission for farmers. Now, the Government has at its disposal a financial instrument that could be absolutely decisive for an effective response to these challenges, which is the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but clearly does not have the political will to do so. It was not by chance that out of the EUR 16 billion initially planned for the RPP, the Government only allocated to the agricultural sector a little more than EUR 300 million. Indeed, if doubts exist, this is proof that the agricultural sector is not even a priority for this government. In fact, the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group well knows, therefore, the draft resolution it presents to us today, in which it calls for more support for the agricultural sector, coming precisely from the PRR. [[PSD applause.]] We fully agree, and it is not, in fact, enough to have will, we also need to know how to plan and have the ability to execute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u146	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u147	I will now conclude, Mr President. In this regard, it is recalled that the National Regadios Programme, presented in 2018, intended to create 90 000 ha of irrigation up to 2022, through the construction of new infrastructures and the realization of existing but damaged other infrastructures, which was extended to 2025 and will at this time be implemented by a little more than 50 %. We look forward to the promised simplified licensing for the construction of tanks and small reservoirs of water for agricultural purposes. We demand the necessary and necessary support for farmers affected by drought. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u148	Mr Paulo Ramalho has a claim to request clarification, but he has no time to answer, so I ask the Member of the PS Norberto Patinho Parliamentary Group to make the request for clarification. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u149	Give him time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u150	Hold on. So you have the floor, Mr Norberto Patinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u151	Ah, the PS doesn't give anybody anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u152	You won't miss a chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a particularly difficult year from a meteorological point of view. It is with great concern that the Socialist Party faces the drought situation we are facing. The Government has acted correctly, appropriately and appropriately, monitoring, monitoring and acting in order to overcome the situation and the many problems that seriously affect the agricultural sector and farmers. In an order signed by the Minister on May 5, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food recognized the situation of severe drought and extreme drought in 67 municipalities. This declaration allows for the implementation of a set of measures — such as, inter alia, grazing in laying areas and the reduction in the requirement for minimum headings — which enable the damage resulting from the drought period to be mitigated, and did not happen sooner because there are national and Community procedures and rules to be complied with.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u154	Like for the Spaniards!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u155	Those who compare us with Spain forget that in the neighbouring country the situation is much more serious, so the latter met earlier the conditions that allowed them to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u156	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u157	to those who are now demanding urgent recall the statements by the Minister of Agriculture of the right-wing Government that in 2012 it was stated that it was necessary to remove the effects of drought before any Community aid was triggered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u158	By 2012 it was planned!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u159	The various measures made available in 2022, within the framework of the 2020 RDP, amounting to EUR 160 million, the implementation of which runs in 2023 and 2024, ensuring reflections on the increase in resilience to the drought phenomenon. The operation of the exceptional package of measures amounting to EUR 180 million is still being prepared to support the agricultural sector and, consequently, to contribute to the stabilization of food prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u161	The resolution of the drought problem requires structural measures and, despite the insufficiency of the funds allocated to irrigation within the Community framework negotiated by the right-wing Government, the Ministry of Agriculture has been building long-term impact solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u162	What's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u163	We highlight the implementation of the National Regadios Programme, the PDR 2020 and the PRR. It is more than 330 projects in public recreation, an investment of 810 million euros in traditional regazios, rehabilitation of regadios, development of efficient regadios, security of dams and installation of photovoltaic panels. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to support the Government in taking measures to prevent, regulate and mitigate the effects of drought. And no, we're not staying for faith, waiting for it to rain! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u164	Mr Norberto Patinho, I want to tell you that I didn't understand exactly what the question was,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u165	No one's noticed, he hasn't asked any questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u166	...but she was there underlying, so I realized. Through all the intervention, there was a question. He didn't notice, but there was that question. [[PS and CH rice.]] Then, in this case, for an intervention now by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor, which now has almost no time, only 3 minutes and 7 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u167	All right, he's got nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u168	Mr. President, the first slow alentejo is about to be born! [[Laughing.]] [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] Over the past 40 years, 2021 was the year when Portuguese farmers most invested in their farms, it was the year when net income in agriculture recorded its highest value and it was also the year when products originating in the forest — wood, cork, resin products, wood, pellets, paper pulp and recycling — reached its highest value. The Community funds and the way they have been programmed over the past 20 years well reflect the assertive form of dynamism in different sectors of Portuguese agricultural policy has reached relatively satisfactory numbers. But still, the PS wants more. There is an important indicator that we should continue to analyze, which has to do with the irrigable surface depending on the agricultural area used. Today, the watered area according to this area is already 90 % of its total. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was an absolutely enormous work that the Socialist Party and a man who today is a Member of this House, Dr. Luís Capoulas Santos, have done for agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this is also the sector most exposed to climate change and its effects, with enormous impacts, on the lives of our farmers. It is today to react quickly to protect such an important sector as the agricultural sector, to defend national production and to be able to give competitiveness to Portuguese agriculture, fisheries and forest. Thus, 70% of the water consumption in Portugal is not spent, but invested, on agriculture and Portuguese farmers...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u169	What about the losses?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u170	... and 16, 6 % of the total energy that the country uses is invested and applied in the Portuguese agricultural sector. It is extremely important that investment in R & D ( research and development ), which has already been mentioned today, continues to be valued. Example of this is the InsectERA, a project supported by the PRR Mobilizing Agendas. For the possibility of cancelling the deficit in the import balance of maize and soybeans from other countries outside the European area, it is extremely important that protein is produced from insects, also taking into account how we are able to feed these insects.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u171	It's just bazaar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u172	For this reason, the reprogramming of the RPP and the way the Community funds are analysed and discussed lack a moment of attention for all energy efficiency measures in the agricultural sector: agricultural holdings, digitisation and innovation in the water distribution model, reduction of energy consumption in agricultural activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u173	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u174	...and a strong bet on the use and circular economy of this sector so important to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u175	To present Resolution Projects Nos 713 and 721 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today, once again, the drought, when this week's report by the European Environment Agency which estimates that the south and centre of Europe, where Portugal is included, will be dramatically affected by these phenomena and that economic damage can range from EUR 25 billion per year, with a global warming of EUR 1, 5 °C to EUR 45 billion, if we exceed this value. In view of this scenario, and when the discussion of this theme goes through the construction of more dams or even, imagine, of transvase megasystems to channel water from the north to the southern region of the country, what we must say is that only failed even to propose the planting of more eucalyptus to combat the scarcity of water. In fact, it seems that some parties in this House have not yet realized that the solution cannot go through old usual formulas and insist on equal formulas to achieve different results. We cannot continue to use water to feed unsustainable activities, such as livestock,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u177	What about the stoves?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u178	... ignoring that the production of 1 kg of meat amounts to the expenditure of 15 000 l of water, or other intensive or superintensive agricultural activities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u179	For the stoves it can be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u180	...or waste it with the water of the golf courses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u181	How much do you spend on the stoves?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u182	This has to do with the acceleration of soil degradation and desertification in the country, which is important to combat. The NAP therefore presents two projects related to this theme, with measures that can effectively contribute to minimize the effects of drought, in particular the reuse of wastewater treatment plants for the stream of public spaces in all municipalities of the country and the incentive to produce legume crops as a way to fix atmospheric nitrogen, increase the efficiency of land phosphorus consumption and also ensure greater profitability in the use of water. We also recall that a resolution of this Assembly is to be complied with, following a proposal from the NAP, with a view to including in the National Reform Programme of 2022 the urgent revision of the National Water Plan. This has not yet been achieved by the government, so we cannot stop calling for this plan to be reviewed urgently.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u183	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Again, we are discussing matters related to the problem of lack of water, and, in fact, saying, in this debate, that there is a problem with lack of water is not fatalism, it is a fact. For many years now, science has told us that the trend towards ever more extreme droughts has existed, particularly in our country, for many decades. So, as we said last week, in a debate on these matters, for decades, the country and the public policies of the country failed to anticipate the trends that science had already told us they were on the table. As I said, we are again debating proposals, which are most connected with agriculture, which is obviously an important and interested part in water management. But, as we have also said before, it seems to us important and increasingly relevant, as we go through, when the effects of climate change are increasingly extreme, we differentiate what we have in our country at the level of agriculture. It seems to us that some of the projects on the table in this debate continue not to look at the essence of this problem, for example, when we have projects, proposals and programmatic lines that continue to insist on intensive agriculture, although we all know the consequences it has on the use of water and even on the wear of the soil itself, which, after that, cannot be used for anything else. in this debate, there is still a lack of — and this has happened in all the debates that we have had on this subject — a more conjunctural view, which goes deeper into the problem of water scarcity and extreme drought in our country and which really looks at one of the biggest problems that they are facing for this drought, which has exactly to do with the form and model of agriculture that we have. in this sense, we should be looking, for example, at the small farmers, who are even more disadvantaged, because policies are being directed towards intensive agriculture and large latifundium.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u185	For the culture of the cannabis!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u186	Therefore, it seems to us that, with several proposals on the table, some of them try to respond to this matter from a more effective management of the water itself, but others lack a look at this fundamental problem, because they continue to go in the direction of increasing the area of intensive agriculture, which we do not think is the right way. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u187	It can only be intensive if it's cannabis!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u188	The Bureau no longer records requests for speeches. We shall therefore immediately turn to the closure by the CFP Parliamentary Group to what Mr John Dias has said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP was right when you made this schedule on drought. Of the nine proposals, we will see how many will remain at the end — probably the one which, even though the PS Parliamentary Group is at stake, will have little practical results, taking into account the content of the proposal. We all recognize today that drought is indeed a problem facing our national production and livestock producers, which has effects on the country's sovereignty and food security and which, of course, needs measures. If we discuss exceptional and urgent measures today, it is because we have failed in the need for structural measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u191	What the CFP has long presented in this House, in particular a national plan to respond to the structural effects of drought, is still missing and we do not see, in the measures presented here, answers to this situation. The drought naturally puts, above all, a dilemma, the dilemma between those who have access to water and those who do not. Today, the viability of agricultural production is so confronted. The truth is that the production of fodder and hay is compromised, so our producers have nowhere to buy, even if they want it, and they are in the hands of those who make shameful profits at the cost of this speculation. Therefore, in order to conclude this discussion, it is important to bring the issues of drought, but we must also bring what farmers and producers are already faced with, namely the increase in the cost of production factors — and I spoke of rations, hay and fodder — and the consequences of sanctions and war. This is now a very important thing, which is the process of applications for PEPAC, chaotic, complex, bureaucratic, removing our producers from these support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u192	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, within weeks of the completion of this process, only 20 % of the applications are completed. Well, this is a complication.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u194	Sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u195	For the Land of Peace and Brussels it will be all right, even more concerned about the digital field notebook. Now, for our farmers, this has effects and scope in the abandonment of our villages and villages, in the abandonment of territories and agricultural production. Certainly, the Land of Paço and Brussels will be satisfied with the concentration of production on larger farms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u196	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u197	... but absolutely sure that, with these effects, adding to the drought the abandonment of the territories, what we will talk about later, and that we have already talked about, which is the problem of fires, will have a greater dimension. We therefore cannot agree with the rejection of measures, including exceptional and emergency measures, but also the structural measures that need to be implemented so that, once and for all, our farmers and producers have more access to water under conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u198	Thus, we have reached the end of the third point of our agenda. We are now moving to the fourth point, which is the vote. I therefore ask for the good attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the necessary inclusion in the quorum of votes, and I therefore call for the electronic system to be opened so that this can happen. [[Pause.]] I would ask the services, please, to highlight the results. [[Pause.]] We are going to do that routine exercise, in which I ask whether any Member or Member present in the Chamber could not sign up electronically. Therefore, whoever is in those circumstances, please announce your name.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u199	Patrícia Dantas, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u200	Some have already left, Mr President. It's better to discount those who have already left!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u201	Thus, we have only one person who has not been able to sign up, Mrs Patrícia Dantas, and the quorum is stabilized. We will then proceed to the votes, from then on with the Vote Project No 373 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings by 650. the anniversary of the Anglo-Portuguese Treaty. Mr. Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u202	Mr. President, let me read: « On 15 June 2023, 650 years of the signing of the Anglo-Portuguese Treaty signed in Tagilde in 1373. The alliance between Portugal and the United Kingdom is thus the oldest and longest in the world, reflecting deep ties between the two peoples and fruitful relations at political, economic, cultural and scientific level. The alliance between Portugal and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is now more current than ever, as demonstrated by the adoption in 2022 of the Joint Declaration on Bilateral Cooperation to renew the wishes of friendship and which has set new objectives for deepening the ties that unite the two countries. In particular, in the field of foreign policy, security and defence, trade policy and science and innovation. The sharing of values and interests between the two democracies is also well expressed by the common participation in multilateral organizations, since then in the United Nations and the Atlantic Alliance, of which the two countries are founding members. This is a clear expression of the commitment of both States to effective multilateralism, the defense of a rule-based international order, the promotion of peace and security, human rights and sustainable development. The strongest basis of the Luso-British alliance is the links between the two peoples, specifically expressed by the more than 400 000 Portuguese residents of the United Kingdom and the more than 40 000 British who chose Portugal as their home. In addition to residence, tourism is also a people-to-people link, and the United Kingdom is the first tourist market to Portugal. And academic and university cooperation, as well as cultural exchanges, today represent promising fields of relationship, particularly for young generations. Thus, aware of the importance of the Luso-British alliance and committed to its development, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes 650. the anniversary of relations between Portugal and the United Kingdom. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u203	Let us then vote the deliberative part of this draft greeting vote for 650. the anniversary of the Anglo-Portuguese Treaty. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u204	Proudly alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u205	Incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u206	Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u207	Mr President, the CFP will make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u208	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 8 / XV / 1. a ( IL ) — Possible Commission of Inquiry into the Operation of the Security Information Service ( SIS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u209	It's transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u210	We have a number of requests for a word, so I ask the honourable Members. Members who wish to announce the submission of explanations of vote that are identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u211	Mr President, Antonio Maló de Abreu, I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u212	Mr President, José Silvano, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u213	Mr President, Antonio Topa Gomes, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u214	Mr President, Antonio Proa, to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u215	Mr President, André Coelho Lima, I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u216	Mr President, João Dias Coelho, I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u217	Mr President, Carlos Eduardo Reis, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u218	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u219	Mr. President, Tiago Moreira de Sá, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u220	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall now proceed to the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 9 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Possible parliamentary investigation commission for the evaluation of the performance of the Security Information Service ( SIS ) and the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( SIRP ), as well as the political protection of these institutions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and L were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions of the CFP and the NAP.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who wish to announce statements of vote identifying themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u221	Mr President, Tiago Moreira de Sá, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u222	Mr President, Antonio Maló de Abreu, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u223	Mr President, Antonio Topa Gomes, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u224	Mr President, Antonio Prôa, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u225	Mr President, André Coelho Lima, is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u226	Mr. President, Carlos Eduardo Reis, is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u227	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote on the two legislative initiatives just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u228	Mr President, José Silvano, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u229	Mr President, I had said this in the previous debate and I reiterate that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u230	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u231	Mr President, I also reiterate that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u232	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We are now voting in general. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 742 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Guarantees the payment by postal voucher of extraordinary support to the most vulnerable families and their impermenability. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] This project goes down to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 793 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the forms of payment of extraordinary support to the most vulnerable families by amending Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 800 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Add support for long-term unemployed persons to the set of minimum social benefits cumulative with the extraordinary support provided for in Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 21 -A / 2023 of 28 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 662 / XV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Immediate measures to support agricultural and livestock sectors in combating the effects of drought. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u234	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u235	It is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u236	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall immediately proceed to the general vote of Bill No 797 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates a national plan for support for precision agriculture. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u238	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u239	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u240	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 146 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthen support for Portuguese farmers in drought. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PAN and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u241	How will they explain the PCP vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u242	We now proceed to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 380 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Reformation of the regádio. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the CFP, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u243	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u244	Does Mrs Inês de Sousa Real ask for the floor to announce a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u245	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u246	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 672 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the agricultural sector in the face of the effects of drought of 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the PS and CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u247	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u248	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u249	Mr President, it is to announce that I am going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u250	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote in general on Resolution No 699 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Promote the allocation of incentives to the agricultural sector within the framework of the RPP to improve water efficiency, energy and the strengthening of the circular economy. [[The vote was taken with the vote on PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] This project is down to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u251	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u252	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u253	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u254	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u255	It's a message to Mary of Heaven!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u256	We continue the vote in general, now with draft resolution No 713 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of incentives for the production of vegetable crops. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u258	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u259	Mr President, it is only to say that I am going to deliver a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u260	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 721 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary measures to minimise the effects of drought. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 728 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the immediate implementation of measures to support agricultural and livestock sectors in order to combat the impacts of drought. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the BE and IL and L abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 698 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the immediate suspension of the application of Ordinance No 86 / 2023 of 27 March amending the rules on the distribution by electronic means of proceedings in judicial courts and administrative and tax courts. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 707 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government adapt judicial and extrajudicial systems to the rights, interests and needs of children. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u261	Little children's cunts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u262	We now turn to the global final votes. We begin by voting on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 305 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government review the careers of professional social reintegration technician, senior social reintegration technician and higher education technician, the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, and regulate their progress and remuneration. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u264	Mr. Marcos Perestrello, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u265	Mr President, I just wanted to inform Mr President and the Bureau that, invoking the prerogative of Article 8 ( 3 ). that of the Statute of Members, I shall not participate in the vote on the final text on the Proposal for a Law No 62 / XV / 1. a, which will be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-16.u266	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 62 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime of sports societies. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and BE and with abstentions from the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We are therefore giving the voting time to close. I will announce our agenda for June 21, 2023, which will consist of the Interpellation to Government No 5 / XV / 1. a (BE) — About ‘The People deserve + SNS’. We are now at the end of our plenary session. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 32 minutes.]]
