ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. Today's agenda consists of the Government's Appeal No. 8 / XV / 1. a (BE) — About the lack of day care breaks. To open the debate on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor. I would like to ask the colleagues, with the ease of reference, to allow the honourable Member to begin her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're still having a little noise in the Chamber, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u3	Mrs. Member, let's wait a little. I ask the services to reset the times to zero. [[Pause.]] I think the audience is almost accommodated. Mr. Manuel Loff can sit down and talk quietly with his parliamentary leader. Please begin, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u4	Mr President, I begin by registering and thanking the presence of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the Secretary of State for Inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a short version of this debate, a very short version: there are no breaks in day care centres. There are so many vacancies in day care, there are so many vacancies that the Cresce Feliz program no longer has vacancies where to grow. It is symptomatic that a good and old idea, such as the freeness of day care centers, ends up barging, not at the immediate cost of the measure, in the lack of public investment. I said it's symptomatic. I didn't say it's surprising. There is no rigorous and up-to-date survey of equipment needs for early childhood, but the Social Charter of 2021, most recently, speaks of an average coverage rate on the continent of 52, 9 %. It is a realistic number, consistent with the reality we know, but misleading when calculated in terms of national average. Guard, Portalegre or Castle White, because they have a lower population density, press the average upwards. Still, there are no vacancies throughout the country and no districts — I repeat, no districts! — reaches 100 % of the daycare coverage rate. As is expected, the situation is more desperate in Porto, Setúbal and Lisbon, far below the average or even 50% in some cases. The data are known. Portugal has a historic public investment deficit in early childhood equipment, and the consequences are in sight. They are piled up as a pile of empty promises, and in this case neither the promises of the government can solve the problem. For years, economic difficulties have covered this lack of public investment. For years, what hid the lack of jobs in day care centers was the impossibility of many families paying more expensive monthly fees than the propines of a private university. António Costa's promise was, then, free daycare for everyone, and this came with a second promise: opening 10,000 new vacancies. As is seen by all, 10,000 new vacancies is a promise that does not only sin by modesty. It must also be ignorance or incompetence, because the universe of children with access to the Feliz Creche, i.e. free access to a wave in day care, is far superior to the universe of available vacancies. Recent data from the Public Administration's Planning, Policy and Prospective Skills Centre ( PlanAPP ) indicate that, for the freeness of day care to reach all children up to 3 years of age, it would be necessary to double the current installed capacity. And here we enter a slightly longer version of this intervention, which is to explain the original sin. The historical insistence — I could call it 'historical teimosia' — to not include the day-care centres in the educational system made them always to be regarded as social assistance and not as part of the rights of children, in which the State has special responsibilities. The idea that a public daycare network can be replaced by the Social Security check to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) or to the private daycare has brought us here. The impact of the existence or absence of a public network of day care centres is recognised by numbers. The Social Report of the New SBE ( School of Business and Economics), drawn up by researcher Susana Peralta, says that, at the age of pre-school, the existence of public and free schools increases the frequency for all income quartiles, but above all the frequency of children from poorer families. This debate is made, and I recall Recommendation No. 3 / 2011, of the NEC ( National Council for Education ), on education from 0 to 3 years, in which it is considered that the realization of the right of children to day care is a factor of equal opportunity and it is said that the only way to create a right that is universal is to include the first childhood in the Basic Law of the Education System and assuming the responsibilities of the Ministry of Education on the right to daycare. I also recall the words of Prof. Teresa Vasconcelos when he said, and he has said it here many times: « Education begins at 0 years. » Education from 0 to 3 years is a right of children, is essential for their development and should therefore be included in the educational system. The decision of successive governments was a different one and, once again, it was that decision that brought us here. In a few words, returning to the short version: there are no vacancies in the day caretakers. There are no daycare breaks in the social sector, no daycare breaks in the private sector, much less daycare breaks in the public sector. The Association of Creches and Small Establishments of Special Education has already confirmed this statement. A little across the country, parents are trying to consult the Registration Portal, which, by way of example, has been below, or to consult the lists published in the establishments they have applied for, and are becoming desperate. And it's despair we're talking about. How else can you feel a family that sees the holiday period end and not find a daycare leave for your child? What do these families do that are pushed for private day care, with a monthly amount of €600? And most importantly, what do these women do? In view of this decision and depending on the salary, many women decide to leave the labour market. Knowing that real wage inequality in Portugal exceeds 20 % and that women have more precarious jobs, what is the real impact of the absence of a public response and vacancies in the day care centres in Portuguese society? Come here, what to do? The only answer is to take responsibility and to allow all establishments with Creche Feliz agreements to open new rooms or increase the number of vacancies whenever they have conditions for this, but in facilitated and fast licensing processes; to allow the authorities to be part of the solution—there is so far no good explanation for the public financing of day care centres to be closed to the authorities. Why do interests, which certainly are not the interests of children or families, are that the State funds the opening of day care rooms in IPSS, but prohibits this funding when the authorities are opening day care rooms, and are the authorities who know the lack of breaks and what happens in their territories? On behalf of what interests is the State, a government is heading for the authorities to solve the problem of the lack of day care, making the right to day care in the hands of third parties, be these thirds of the social sector or the private sector? The pandemic has shown the risks of this policy, but we do not seem to learn anything. In addition to these measures—which we are not mistaken, are emergency measures—the Government also has a service, paid for by Social Security, which is that of the friends linked to Social Security, with so much effort in its struggle, whose response must also grow if we want to find a quick solution for the thousands and thousands of children who have now left off the lists of placements on the day-care grounds. I received today a message from a mother from Almada, who enrolled the child in 12 day care centers and did not get a job in any.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u5	And why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u6	It is a message that conveys the indignation of many other mothers. She says, and I quote: "As Mr. Minister promised, during the campaign, you raised everyone free of charge in the first year, I feel wrong. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister's promises that all children would have access to free daycare were in vain because there is no investment so that there is an offer capacity to respond to this promise by Mr. Prime Minister, and that is an irresponsibility that falls on the government account. But there is another one, which falls into the government's account. It is because, if we add to all this the promises that have been made to educators in kindergartens for years about the accounting of service time — and do not forget that the aging and exit of the system, which affects all teachers, also affects educators and educators of childhood — if we all add to this the problem that the government has with teachers and the promises failed to make to those teachers and educators who work in day care centres, then we will see that the problem of lack of vacancies is not only a problem of equipment and that, very soon, it will also be the lack of educators to give rise to the lack of vacancies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we bring here is an appeal to the Government: how many of these measures will you accept to solve the problem now? And if you do not accept them, what alternative measures do you have to guarantee the right to be raised to all children? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u7	To open the debate on the part of the Government, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I wish you all very late, of course, and I am particularly pleased to be here to account for a measure that is even transformative and structural for our country, a measure that we are achieving at the service of children and an inclusive growth for our country. The times have been enormously demanding and enormous challenges, times in which we have always sought to respond, at every moment, from the point of view of the need for the mobilization of extraordinary responses, but never losing the north of the structural investment we are making in our country. This investment that we have made, whether in the extraordinary responses, or in the structural investment, has always had as background and great focus the support and structural investment in children. In the extraordinary responses, in which all the measures we have mobilized have always been, also, with a differential mobilization of increased focus to children, I give the concrete example of the support measures for vulnerable families that are being paid this year to support families to cope with the costs associated with inflation. For example, in a family with two children with family allowance, with these extraordinary support — whether the families have the social rate, and, as you know, the families who have family allowance have the social rate of electricity, whether in the families who have family allowance — there is this year an exceptional support of €720. But we have sought to ensure that this investment is also cross-cutting, in all the measures that we have mobilised in a structural way. For this reason, the Dignified Work Agenda — whose regulation of the size of the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life of parental leave has been published today — is precisely here a major concern with greater child monitoring capacity, greater reconciliation of personal, family and professional life and better sharing between men and women in parental responsibilities. We have also mobilized and created, for the first time, the guarantee for childhood, an automatic provision to combat cycles of poverty, which is already reaching 150 000 children in an automatic way, without the need for a request. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are creating centres of guarantee for childhood at the level of all the councils in the country, so that there is an integrated and personalized intervention, to break down cycles of poverty, as well as a decisive investment in children, transformer of our country. Also in the family allowance, we reinforced the benefits: the average family allowance benefit has increased by about 75% since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u10	Investment in family allowance this year is increasing by about 30 % of the amount paid and will reach more than 40 000 children in 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This has been an integrated strategy of decisive investment in children, where the freeness of day care is one of the decisive measures that we have created and that we are mobilizing. It is even a transforming measure of the country's lives and transforming. It is a decisive investment — I think this is consensual to all who are here — of support for parents and family budgets, to alleviate the family budget. For those who talk so much in the example of Ireland, I remember that in Ireland a daycare costs a young € 1200. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] We in Portugal are one of the five countries in the world with free of charge of day care, also created as a decisive instrument of support for young people who decide to make Portugal their country to live. This is also a decisive measure for the liberation of women, for equal opportunities and for full participation in the labour market, but it is still a decisive and transforming measure, for a real equality of opportunities for children, regardless of the socio-economic context in which they are born or the place of the country in which they live. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u11	This measure has indeed had a huge demand, because it is essential for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a measure that has been brutally successful, and numbers speak of the capacity of implementation, precisely because adherence by people has been enormous and with an exponential increase in demand. at this time, for many families that did not even equal the children in a daycare, the daycare is their main and first answer; of course, with a huge demand, to which we all have to answer. It is a measure with a huge mobilization of public resources from the State budget, which we assume as a direct and decisive investment for all families who decide to have children. In the law passed in this House, by all parties except the Liberal Initiative, it was soon assumed that its implementation was progressive until 2025. Not only are we doing this just as we are actually overcoming it, in view of what was initially planned. We had planned about 40 000 children in the first year and now we already have 58 000. of these, 20 000 are children of 1. o is 2. the steps, ensuring that it is a measure of diversity, guarantee and that there is real inclusion of all children, and not the exclusion of them always. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is clear that the exponential increase in demand puts all of us in the challenge of rapidly increasing the capacity of existing day care centres. Portugal has a coverage rate of around 52 %, which is 7. the country in Europe has a higher coverage rate, but that does not satisfy us, because we really want to get more and reach more people. That is also why we mobilized, structurally and unprecedentedly, investment of PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) and PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) for the increase of 26 000 day care centres. In addition, we have decided to create special mechanisms to allow rapid increase in response capacity at the moment we live. Of course, the Left Block also had access to the proposal we made to the social sector partners about two weeks ago, precisely for the simplification of these mechanisms and for the speedy conversion of rooms, so that we could quickly increase the response capacity. It was also following this joint work and the contributions of the partners of the social sector and the Association of Small and Small Schools that, yesterday, I signed a transformational simplification to facilitate the automatic conversion of spaces previously dedicated to the area of childhood to day-care— provided that, of course, the issues of safety and comfort of children—sufficient enough for the purpose of communicating to the Institute of Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u13	On the other hand, in the office signed yesterday, we created the possibility of increasing two places for each daycare room, provided the rooms have enough area, per child, to ensure the quality of the response. This is done at the service of children and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, we do not apply these rules to births for the obvious reasons for safeguarding the quality of response, but also because we believe that parental monitoring is essential, in particular with the new measure that we have created for parental leave. A measure that allows parents and mothers, in part time to be able to accompany the child until 1 year, as long as they do so in a shared way, thus promoting a real sharing between men and women, once again, releasing women into the space they deserve to occupy. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u14	No one's back there applauding!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u15	With these measures, we foresee a potential for rapid and immediate capacity-building, which could be about 6000 new places, as early as 2023. In addition, we have made provision for the possibility of setting up day care centres in universities, companies, hospitals, public institutions, always safeguarding security conditions. This is our commitment, to be and to do, to always be at the service of people to pursue a path that is of permanent challenges, but at every moment we are also seeking to respond better, evaluating and accelerating the ability to respond to a measure that is even transformative of children, families and the country. We will always continue on this way of service! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u16	We are now beginning with requests for clarification of Mrs Joana Mortágua's intervention. To make a first request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Lagriminha has the floor. [[Pause.]] Marta Lagriminha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u17	It's Mara, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u18	Marla Lagriminha, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u19	It's Mara. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u20	Mrs. Mara Lagriminha, with our apologies, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u21	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Ministers, the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to greet the Left Block for having scheduled this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u22	That was a good idea, yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u23	This is because, when we reflect on social equipment such as day care centres, we are clearly reflecting on the future and society we want, and we are building, so that no child will be reliant on what is the « birth batch ». That is why in recent years the Socialist Party has responded very clearly. If we are having this debate, it is because in fact there was a concrete government policy, and the reality is proof of this with the progressive freeness of daycare, which is now reaching more children than it was a year ago. Today we have 58 000 children already covered, when in September 2022 we had only 36 000. And these are concrete data, Mrs. Joana Mortágua. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are even reaching the middle class and those who need it most, giving the opportunity to those who would never have that possibility without this program. And that is why we have a broad membership, because the measure has even positive financial impacts on the family budget. It is not just us who say it, just analyze the study of PlanAPP, published in February 2022, which indicates that this measure means an average saving of €400 in the pockets of families, in particular of single-parent families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u24	Some don't even get that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u25	We are talking about a monthly state investment of more than 9 million euros. Madam Member, let me also tell you that, contrary to what you have said here today, this measure has predictability, it has planning, with very clear rules that have been improved in the field, simplified — as, recently, the Minister said — and with a time frame up to 2024. Moreover, on the initiative of the Socialist Party, we adopted in this House a resolution to reach the municipal network and the day care centres in public higher education institutions in order to extend...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u26	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u27	...and giving the same opportunities to all children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have heard here speaking late, but what we know is very concrete: Portugal has a daycare coverage rate of 53 %, which is far above the average value of the European Union, which, as you know, is 32 %. We're really the 7th. the European Union country with the highest coverage rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u29	...but that's why we don't even stop investing. That is why we strengthened the PARES Programme and the PRR and have already launched warnings for the conversion of places to other responses, including kindergarten, or allowing—with the door that was published yesterday—that other spaces that are not being used for child support can now be converted into the day-care centre. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I give you another very concrete example: even last May, we had Minister Ana Mendes Godinho in the Santarém district to sign 153 contracts for the creation of more 5300 new daytime vacancies within the framework of the PRR. In the face of all these facts, I should just like to ask whether the Left Block recognizes that we are making the greatest public investment ever in early childhood, with real results in reducing the burdens of families, because, Mr President, we are making the greatest public investment ever in our first childhood. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing I say to you: of course, Portuguese families recognize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u30	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Maravilha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u31	Mr President, Mr Ministers and Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs Joana Mortágua, the Left Block brings the debate, and very well, the lack of day breaks. Indeed, the available vacancies do not reach more than half of the children in Portugal, which has led to the despair of many families. But the Left Block does not bring a proposal or a suggestion for that problem to be resolved immediately. So, what Mrs. Joana Mortágua brings is the creation of a public network of day care centers and the end of the IPSS and private day care centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u32	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u33	So it's an ideological question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u34	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u35	I heard, I heard, what is meant is to end the IPSS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u36	Of course it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u37	In fact, it has been regrettable since that, during your speech, not one word of appreciation has been addressed to the IPSS and private day care centres for the high performance they have had so far. [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u38	In fact, I remind you that 374 private day care centers have already joined the program and have been activated for free. On the other hand, the honourable Member is saying that the government must allow the municipal chambers to make agreements with social security to have their own day care, and that is what I wanted to clarify. What I want to know is whether this offer from the authorities, which the honourable Member proposes, is mandatory or optional. I also ask whether this municipal offer works simultaneously with the social sector, in particular the association and the private sector. On the other hand, please clarify to me also what is the advantage, in the immediate or medium-term, of having the municipal day care centers...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u39	We've got more jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u40	... when we have a public and private sector that also does this service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u41	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u42	Mr President, by speaking Mr Hugo Maravilha, I can only conclude that the PSD is absolutely in line with the government's policy on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u43	No, and you're not with yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u44	For the PSD, none of the alternative proposals is good, neither does it present any, and therefore all that the government is doing with the daycare policy is very true, it is correct, there is nothing else that can be done, there is no more effort that can be made to add vacancies to those that exist and that are insufficient! What the PSD has to say to families is this: if the social sector and the private sector are doing such a good job — we say no! — Why add? You don't add anything, you don't move that's good like this, you leave things as they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u45	They want to get rid of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u46	In other words, the PSD has nothing strictly to say to families who are currently homeless.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u47	You're kidding! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u48	The honourable Member is still doing something that I think is absolutely unbelievable, which is to ask how it makes sense that the public sector, particularly the authorities, has an offer of day care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u49	What's the advantage?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u50	O honourable Member, increase the number of vacancies! Does it seem to you that it makes sense to increase the number of day breaks and respond to families? Oh, my God! Or should the public sector be prohibited from having day care breaks?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u51	What's the advantage?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u52	We can conclude that you want to ban public day care breaks. If so, you can say! We have 52, 8 % that we have to offer vacancies right now and the discussion is over, because we already understand what the PSD wants to do about it: strictly nothing! We will end up perpetuating the system of things we have so far, which is a very weak response to the needs of day-care vacancies, and that is what I wanted to say to Mrs Mara Lagriminha, because it confuses the support that the measure deserves in what she has good intentions — which is the free access of all children to day-care — with the implementation of the measure. Irresponsibility is not giving children the right to free daycare, irresponsibility is promising that all children have access to free daycare without having the ability installed on the ground to respond to this promise. And that capacity does not exist because, even when funding, the State depends on the willingness of third parties to open a room. I believe that there are several autarchs here and, despite Mr Hugo Maravilha's mistrust of the role of the autarchs and the authorities in this area, I say that many authorities would like to be able to respond to the families of their municipality with the lack of a daycare.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u53	Which ones? Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u54	Maybe not PSD ones. Maybe the PSDs are satisfied with the state of the situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u55	Which ones? Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u56	But there are many authorities that need and are desperate because they have families that don't have a day job. What you have to do is compete as co-financers or fully finance equipment, day care facilities... [[Pause.]] As long as Mrs Mara Lagriminha wants to debate with Mr Hugo Maravilha, I may, perhaps, interrupt... Thank you very much. Mrs. Deputy certainly knows many cameras that finance equipment and that then, as they cannot manage them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u57	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u58	... because Social Security does not allow the financing and sharing of these equipment, they have just had to deliver them to IPSS. When there is no IPSS to whom to deliver them, the opening of a day with social security funding is forbidden to the authorities. What I wanted to know is if that makes sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u59	We have already proposed this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u60	In what world can the State not finance itself to open a daycare centre in municipalities where there is a lack of vacancies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u61	We now turn to requests for clarification from the Government. For the first request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, I note that, in her initial speech, and even in the Socialist Party itself, we have not yet heard a word for the thousands of families and children who are staying out of this programme, and this explanation is exactly about them, about those who are staying out of it. We are talking, in fact, about the expectation that has been created and is not being met, and therefore legitimately, many people and many families feel wrong about government announcements without realisation. In addition to the problems that have already been identified here, there is one that we would like to deepen a little with Mrs. Minister. It is a service that has already had a very preponderant role, more dominant than it has today, and that could and should be an addition to the solutions that could now be found. I'm talking about family day care. According to the Social Charter of 2021, in that year there were 601 lovers in the country, which at that time represented a fall of 57 % compared with the 2000 data. So we had a very large decrease in service that was provided and that is very important for many families in various regions of our country. The question is that there are still many problems to be solved with regard to the situation of family daycare attendants, who remain in a situation of low wages and precariousness, despite the commitment made by the Ministry of Labour. The truth is that it has indeed been the action of the Government which has relegated its rights, and we have come to draw attention to it repeatedly, as the Minister knows. In December 2022, the Government and solidarity institutions signed an addendum to the cooperation agreement which provided that from January 2023 this year the IPSS would carry out an increase in wages and the conclusion of employment contracts. The problem is that we are in July 2023 and this agreement, in the overwhelming majority, remains to be fulfilled. Indeed, right now there are still threats of dismissal and there is still no compliance with the rights and wages of these workers, because the CNIS (National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions) says that the government has failed the accounts and the government, when questioned, little or nothing says. In the middle of this, the women continue to be subjected to threats of dismissal and to see their rights violated, and, moreover, families are being left without an answer, essential in many cases because this issue is not being guarded by the government. So, the question that we would like to ask is precisely this: if family day care lovers are an important answer that has been declining, contrary to what should be happening, and knowing that rights and wages are still not met, while there are many families who could be benefiting from this service, why is the government's choice still going to be let go? Why does it still not solve problems that are identified with the lovers and that it does not reinforce an answer that — not solving all problems of lack of vacancies, we know that — would certainly help to overcome this same lack of vacancies in many parts of our country? Why does the government continue to refuse to help solve the problem that has been created with the addendum, which is still not completed seven months ago? And how long will it allow this situation of lack of vacancies to continue to be resolved, in addition, through the family day care service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u63	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome all members of the Government. It is another day when we talk about daycare, particularly about the lack of vacancies. Whenever the Government or the PS Members speak on this issue, we hear that everything works for the thousand wonders, but we know it is not. I will repeat the words of the Minister, who spoke in terms of « transformative measure for our children» and « mobilisation of responses » and present some figures. Number of daycares, since 2016 : 2674, 2631, 2570, 2554, 2561, 2549 — fix, descend! Number of vacancies since 2016 : 118 693, 118 451, 117 238, 117 622, 118 280, 118 260. These are the issues of the Social Charter. This is the transforming measure for our children, but we have not yet recovered the 2016 numbers. On the basis of this data, on 31 May, the Liberal Initiative denounced—as it had already done in a regimental hearing with the Minister—that, on that date, there were no more childcare vacancies under the programme of gratuity and that there was a need to expand the offer, since we were talking about it. The application for membership of private day care centres continued to be slow, slow and complex. I will focus my questions on this first intervention on the subject of the private sector, but for now I want to continue in the portrait because there is, yes, the legitimate expectations of families, as already mentioned, that there are more vacancies under this general gratuity, but this expectation has been undermined. It does not matter just to speak and put in the law a free daycare program. It is important, yes, to ensure that there is a vacancy, otherwise what is free is the promise. We've heard often about the vacancies, but we're going to talk about the coverage rate. The coverage rate has increased — and I will again quote the Social Charter, but these are not the figures of the Liberal Initiative — « by reducing the population from 0 to 3 years old ». It is noted that this pressure will rise, because, fortunately, in 2022, there were more births: 521 more in port and 1348 more in Lisbon, for example. That means the pressure is still going to increase. Then we heard that the Minister is available for solutions. I said that at the last regimental hearing, I was very happy! — and said it was available to hear dialogue solutions and proposals to open new vacancies. A few days later, however, we saw a proposal for licensing and reconversion of rooms in this room itself. I'm glad I announced now that yesterday you made a deal, but the PS — and I don't agree with that! — has led our draft resolution. However, of course, we have heard Mrs Mara Lagriminha talk about the draft resolutions that the PS approves. We do not agree, but at least if it is to decide overnight, that this debate has already served something. Therefore, the government says that families are first, that children are first, but we also see, first, a prejudice against the private. Specific questions for concrete answers: will they insist, in the next school year, that only the vacancies of other types may be registered in the private? Why, in particular, do you know that families who have jobs on the other side of the street are being harmed and that enlargement to the private sector in this way would lead to increased membership of the private sector in the programme? What is happening today, and it has to be said, is that there is instability in the rules, there are bureaucracys and, unfortunately, whether we want to or not, the state is not a good partner. So if there is interest in increasing vacancies, I suppose this would be good measures. In fact, I've heard of 6000 vacancies here, and 6000, or 10 000, we need doubles. At this rate, only in 15 or 20 years, depending on the birth rate, is that we would have a significant coverage rate. There has also been talk about PARES and PRR, for which I have one more call of attention and one question. These programmes are once again restrictive, discriminatory and only aimed at non-profit entities, so I ask: what is the logic of excluding private persons from these programmes, taking into account that, even through co-financing mechanisms, the State would decrease investment? Is this what it is to promote answers? Are we going to continue with this model? We now leave these questions, we will then continue with others, but we already know that if the answers to families were in the sense that the Liberal Initiative would certainly be much faster. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u65	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Carvalho, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has announced here a number of measures which are certainly important to help correct what is an increasingly accessible system. Mr Minister, first of all, we would like to point out — it is important for you to know — that this measure, which was part of the Socialist Party's electoral propaganda and which was also mentioned several times by you, began with a law passed in the Assembly of the Republic, consisted of a sheet A4. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. Therefore, this measure began with an A4 sheet where a set of issues was not included, which then Parliament needed to correct, some of which the Minister also announced. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u67	I mean, what does that mean? In practical terms, what has happened is that, throughout this whole period, this Parliament has made a series of initiatives, of attention calls, because the system that was intended for free of charge is not working. In addition, it is enough to analyze the coverage rate to clearly realize that a set of free vacancies is offered, but that there are many children who stay out of these free vacancies. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister has a way of being in this Parliament — and let me say it this way — that there is nothing in accordance with what the PSD thinks in terms of government position. In fact, there is a good example: of all the questions that the Democratic Social Party has already asked you in writing, so far, the deadline has passed and the Minister has answered to zero. We hope you can answer these things that we are going to do here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u69	Mr Minister, this is not only about the questions but also about the initiatives that we are presenting. The PSD has eight initiatives on day care centers and what happened was that the Socialist Party led them all to do something very ugly. What? Copy them and say that the idea was yours. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] It's ugly, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It's so ugly! But the copy is later paid in the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u70	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u71	However, it is good for the Minister to correct what, in practice, was nothing but an A4 sheet, which only served as a propaganda role for the Socialist Party, because it excluded a set of subjects and measures that were important to take into account. But there are still a few more. Mrs Minister, do you know whether, eventually, there is any measure to make parents who have a private day at a few meters or 1 km away from home are not required to travel 4 km, 5 km, 6 km, 10 km, sometimes up to 20 km — according to some cases we have heard of — to have to fill a vacancy in a public day? This is one of the concrete themes that has been put by the different parties and, of course, as you should imagine, is for a matter of justice and even for improving access to this system. There is another topic, Mrs. Minister, that we would like you to grow up a little bit and that is extremely important. In view of what is in the Social Charter and what the Minister has announced, unless we have grown up falling from heaven and landing on the ground ready for parents to leave the children, we will not be so soon able to offer free daycare according to the demand that exists. So I ask: to address the failure that exists right now, the scourge of some parents leaving their jobs to stay with the children, is the Minister available to extend the period of parental leave, so that parents can spend more time with the children? I know that we have discussed this issue in the Dignified Work Agenda, but we are talking about a matter that can actually lead to a structural and truly transformative change. So, if the Minister wants to answer, it's fine; if she doesn't want to answer, we're used to it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u72	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u73	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Dear Citizens in the galleries, Mr State Secretary, Mr Ministers, on the left at least we use a lot of the illustration of that hall that says « it is not a expense, it is an investment», precisely with this example of day care. I think there should be those who agree with us even beyond the left. If it is not in the daycare centres that we guarantee that there is more equitable and earlier access to education—because the daycare centres are part of, whether or not we want, formally or not, an educational course—if it is not through the daycare centres that we guarantee some equity in the distribution of the work at home, if it is not through the daycare centres that we guarantee that many people can be in the workforce, people who otherwise would not be, and if all this is not an investment much more than a expense, there are few other examples that are just as good as this principle. It's not a expense, it's an investment. The great mystery for all of us is: how can a country with a decline in birth not be able to make an investment on a scale enough to already have a universal coverage of free day care centers? We know that this is not a time for each other, we know that it is a goal that we all agree with, but what we are discussing today is how we get there faster. On this, the Free has a clear option. The Free is in favour of a public network of day care centres and that this national daycare service is organized as other national services and, therefore, is being extended to the extent to which it reaches this universal coverage. The Minister tells us that there are 26 000 places planned under the PRR for the conversion of spaces. That's good news. There is a lot of building in Portugal that can be taken advantage of, I wonder if the RPP funds, also with the implementation rates we have, would not already deserve a rescheduling so that we can reach higher numbers in a short time. More than immediate measures, it is important to think about how to extend the numbers that we have planned for the next few years and I would like to ask whether it is possible to reverse them up. In addition, it would be important that, since your Ministry is dealing with the most infrastructured side of access to day care centres, there could be, from our point of view, a dialogue for a transition from part of this portfolio to the Ministry of Education, assuming that day care centers are part of an educational trajectory and therefore that the Ministry of Education has an increasingly central role in the management of day care centres. Mrs. Minister, I am referring now to another subject. Taking advantage of the fact that you are here, I cannot help but ask two questions that are very important and that have to do with commitments between the Free and the Government. One of the commitments has to do with increasing family allowance for single-parent families. I would therefore like to have a perception of the implementation of this measure planned for this same semester. Secondly, a measure which was probably the first commitment we made between ourselves — and the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs is recognising it, because it is a very important step which is part of her portfolio — and which has to do with unemployment subsidies for victims of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u74	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u75	It seems to me that we are failing our responsibility, the government is failing its responsibilities if a measure that was the first agreed upon in this legislature is not yet being implemented, when it would make a difference in the lives of many victims of domestic violence. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u76	To answer, you have the floor to Minister Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me. I'll try to answer individually to each one of you. Mrs Isabel Pires put here, of course, some anathema about the fact that there are no children covered and this measure is not reaching anyone. I recall that our commitment, which we have assumed from the beginning, was that this would be a step-by-step measure, being a structural measure, being a measure that requires a great effort to mobilize even for implementation on the ground. We assume, from the very beginning, that it would be implemented in a phased way, in fact, as provided for in the law passed in this House. We had planned to cover about 40 000 children, if you remember, in the first year of implementation. We started in the first month of implementation with about 36 000 — I am saying color, but I think this is the number — and since September 2022 we have already reached 58 000. So don't tell me that 58 000 is a measure that doesn't exist. That's not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u78	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u79	Of course, Mrs Deputy, we want to get to a lot more. And I subscribe to that in full. Our daily mission is to try to reach a growing number of children, but for this we also need to extend the response capacity of the social equipment itself, which does not exist. So what we are doing right now is brutally speeding up the response capacity of the social equipment itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u81	So that there are no basic errors in the discussion, I remember what our existing capacity is, to understand why, in fact, the start of this measure and the bulk of this measure has been implemented through the network protocoled with the social and solidarity sector. Because it is obvious that this is what we have in the field for years, historically, in the country. of places that exist throughout the network — and the whole network has 119 000 seats — we have 95 000 in the social and solidarity sector. For this measure to be operated as quickly as possible on the ground, it was exactly as we implemented it, and it is therefore good to talk about numbers to understand the reality. When we talk about the network of municipal chambers or the public network, we have 3000 seats on the public network, to compare with 95 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u82	That's right! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u83	The solidarity sector network has always played this partnership response with social security to respond to people. This is the historical model we have. I am not going to ask the Block if it suddenly wanted to close the entire network of the solidarity sector, because it seems to me completely unthinkable and I don't think that's what they want, so I don't understand very well. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] As for the lovers, the honourable Member said that the addendum was that it created a problem for the lovers, but I did not understand it. I think what the addendum came to do was solve a historic problem, again, that no one had the ability to solve yet, and that is what we're trying to solve here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff and BE Member Isabel Pires.]] That is what we are trying to solve, as we have done, by not turning our faces to problems. On the contrary, we are solving them — which is why we are here — structurally. And what we're doing is we're changing a paradigm of hiring lovers, which is based on a green receipt model, and we're trying to structurally transform into a permanent contract model, with a permanent relationship with the institutions. That is what we are doing, Mrs Deputies, and for the first time we have planned a different model of recruitment — excuse me, I am excited, but it is the enthusiasm to believe very much in what I am doing in these matters —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a model for the conversion of service contracts into permanent contracts and also for the increase of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u84	Read mylips : they can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u85	The addendum provided for an increase in the value paid to the lovers from January onwards and that, during the year 2023, it would also phased out a transition model for employment contracts, which, of course, have specificities. That is what we are doing, and the commitment is to honor, as I have always done in relation to everything. So we will continue to do and the love can count on us, that we are here for that. Mrs Carla Castro, I am shocked to see that, even though you have voted against the law, you are already defending it. I'm very pleased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias and IL Member Carla Castro.]] I think it's really a subject that we all deserve to have a mobilization capacity here for it to happen. Mrs Deputy, I also give you some information because I think you have this updated information: December 2022, 119 616 places, the largest ever number of daycare places in Portugal. We naturally need too much and that is why we are here, that is, for this to happen. Mr Nuno Carvalho does not like my position, which, of course, I respect. I am also not here for you to like my position; I am here to serve the country and to respond as effectively as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But where would we be if we copied what the PSD says or does? Where would we be, Country, if we were here copying? As regards the alignment of the criteria, we are always available for this, and that is what we have done, seeking that this measure can be implemented to respond as best as possible, naturally with all the requirements and difficulties it has. We all know that, and maybe that's why the PSD never dreamed of it. It is difficult, we are here to implement it in a phased way, seeking to increase capacity, and now in a quick way with these 6000, through simple conversion, with more than 26 000 that are foreseen in the PRR and PARES. I will try to respond as best as possible and increase capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u86	What about parental leave?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u87	I think families know that they can count on us within the requirement and complexity that has been to increase a responsiveness that there was and, therefore, that is what we are trying to do as best we can. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I am sorry, I am still going to reply to Mr Rui Tavares. Initially, they had said to respond to three requests for clarification, but they went to four. Mr Rui Tavares, I think we are fully subscribing that this is really an investment and not an expense. We fully share this concern. Repeat, Portugal has 7. the best day care rate of day care. Of course, the coverage rate of day care centres should also be based on reconciling personal life with family life and having the ability to better monitor younger children by parents. Recently, I did not reply to Mr Nuno Carvalho. We have already approved, in the Dignified Work Agenda, and it has already been published today, the extension of the possibility of parental leave time, provided they are shared between men and women. We do not want to perpetuate women at home taking care of children;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] ...we want, yes, real sharing between men and women in parental leave. That is what we are seeking to do, has already been approved, is a new measure, it is a new part-time license, provided it is enjoyed between women and men, allowing children to follow up to one year. Mr Rui Tavares, on the link with education, we cannot agree there. I do not agree with you, because I think this is an area of support response in some way to families and children, in a set of several responses that exist, and day care is one of them. But there is a total link with education, particularly in the definition of intervention plans and pedagogics within the framework of day care centres. As for the increase in family allowance for single-parent families, it has already been implemented, it is already being paid. We have about 300 000 single parents who are already being paid, which means 29 % of the families are covered. With regard to unemployment allowance for victims of domestic violence, it is in fact in a legislative circuit, and we hope to take advantage of it as soon as possible, because it is a commitment that we have made and that we consider it really essential to respond to these people as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u88	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Manuel Loff of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u89	Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Minister, about 7. the country of Europe with the coverage rate of the child population from 0 to 3 years higher, it is curious that, in this history of the rankings—the number was also repeated by Mrs Mara Lagriminha—it is rare situations, but I miss that the Minister of Education is present, to tell her that the rankings are what they are and, of course, manipulate what they manipulate. [[Laughing from PCP MP João Dias.]] I'll give you two other rankings. Portugal is 4. the European Union country with the highest percentage of the elderly population and is 20. the European Union country in synthetic fertility index.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u90	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u91	Look, two more rankings. Do you know why the coverage rate is relatively high? Because we have very few children, Mrs. Minister. And what is extraordinary is that these two numbers even tell us something, which has to do with their Ministry, social policies and social public policies: we are far from solving the problem of the needs of older people, the elderly, in this society. And at the moment, compared with the other countries of the European Union, relatively good daycare coverage, however, we are still practically continuing studies, as you know, of the PlanAPP, the Centre for Planning, Policy and Public Administration Prospective Skills, with a lack of half, or better at the moment, for children, for the resident population from 0 to 3 years old, it would be necessary to double the number of vacancies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u92	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u93	Mr. Minister, what is important in rankings or non rankings is: but are the needs of the population covered?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u94	Are they taken care of?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u95	Are they taken care of, or aren't they? You're not, Minister. Since I'm here — and it's not long ago — I've been dealing permanently with the half-empty cup and then the rankings. What matters is the proportion. The Minister knows that the problem is not solved. We have every doubt. For example, 6000 conversion vacancies plus 26 000 PRR. But when? Very direct question: in September, what is going to happen? What's your forecast? How many families, how many parents and mothers are going to stay, again, without having a job for their children? And now, what prevents the government from guaranteeing free for all children from 0 to 3 years old? What prevents you? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u96	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u97	Mr President, Madam Minister, recently one of the issues that was raised by the PSD, and to which in a way the Minister was also giving the same logic of reply, comes from whether we are doing everything possible to respond to the lack of vacancies in the day care centres. The Minister realized from our interventions that we say there are no children in the day care center. That's not what we said. We said there's a lack of jobs for the kids on the day care center. There are no vacancies for kids in kindergartens. And to the question « is the government doing everything necessary to fulfill the Government's word, the government's promise, which is very fair, but which the government has promised, without being able to fulfill and without doing everything to do so? », the answer is also obvious. The government did everything you could? No, no, no. The PSD recently said: « But the government could not resort to the authorities, because the authorities do not want it». Don't you want to? Look: « Autarchs are asking for government support for free municipal day care centres». The speaker displayed a photocopy of news.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u98	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u99	And he asked the honourable Member: "What autarchs? » Even here I have one of the PSDs of Sardoal. And this is just news from three municipalities, but there are a lot more. We all know there's a lot more. But what don't they have? What does any of these autoarchs have? It's social security support for free daycare. Why? Because the law of bases prevents. There is a law that says it is forbidden to make these agreements with the IPSS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u100	With the cameras.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u101	In fact, with the municipal cameras. She will say to the Minister: 'Well, but the Left Block wants to end the agreements with the IPSS'. If you heard that, Mrs. Minister, you heard it wrong. We didn't say. What we said is obvious: it is not enough, Mrs. Minister, it is not enough. There are no jobs left in the sheds. Therefore, the agreement with the municipal chambers, to put an end to this absurd rule, the only consequence of which is to prevent families from having free day care, was the most necessary. That is why the question is very simple and very direct: why does the government not move into the basic social security law and does not guarantee that what is available on the ground, and that can be solved by September, is available for families to have free foster care, as the government promised they would have? The Minister said: “But we are doing what we are doing.” No, they're not doing it! There are children to whom the government has promised that they would have free day care because they are already old and are in the right age to be able to have within the promise of the government, and they do not have free day care, because there is no vacancy. And there's one more thing Mrs. Minister hasn't answered. The Minister said: "Well, as far as we are concerned, we did everything we could". You didn't, Minister! They did not, because, for years, this government and the previous ones did not value the love. Could it be a solution? I could, but it's always been devalued. We have been losing, losing, losing the number of lovers, but now on such an addendum that the Minister here mentioned, just see what's going on. Is there an addendum? There is. Is it being applied?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u102	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u103	It's not being applied! More, the lovers are being threatened with dismissal. And what does the Minister say about this? No, no, no. Says the Left Block is that you're not getting the government. Anyone who doesn't understand the government is the reality. It's your love, Mrs. Minister! So I ask you: what will you do to ensure that they are not fired and what will you do to ensure that there are more women hired? Is the government doing what you could do, so that the children have jobs at night? The answer is « no ». Two very simple proposals: opening the legal barrier, so that municipal chambers can have free support for families, and opening for greater ease, a guarantee to the lovers, so that this career will succeed with the families. Two very simple proposals, with a direct impact already in September, would like the government to have the courage to take forward what it promised to do to families, and, indeed, what it is repeatedly failing to the families of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u104	The Bureau has the indication that the PSD Parliamentary Group intends to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. Mr. Nuno Carvalho, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u105	Mr President, I address myself to the Bureau only, effectively on the conduct of the work, because repeatedly there have been two times, the Left Block seems to have not listened well to the first one and insists on the mistake to the second one. It's just to be able to distribute to the gentlemen. Members, in particular, with the attention of the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block, which the PSD Parliamentary Group, including, presented a proposal for the extension of free access and frequency to the day care centres of local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u107	Curiously, the Left Block even voted in favour. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Thank you for voting in favour. We're sorry for the forgetfulness. It's just, Mr. President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u108	The Left Block also wishes to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. Please, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u109	Mr President, I believe that the Bureau should not be concerned about the internal communication problems of the PSD bench,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u110	No, it's not internal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u111	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u112	... when Members do not know the proposals themselves presented by the board. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u113	Oh, okay, okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u114	With regard to the circulation of the intended document, it is sufficient for the PSD Parliamentary Group to indicate the number of the project, which it will be circulated by the parliamentary groups. We have now registered, for a request for clarification to Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are obliged to insist on the same issue, but before that, I had a question to ask you, which is about the amendments to the licensing of new rooms, in addition to those that allow more children to have in the same room. It is a proposal that the association of day care centres and early childhood establishments has been making. I am glad that we marked this plea because the Minister said that she made the necessary amendments yesterday. I, yesterday, received a message from this daycare association, which said that I had no answer from the Ministry of Social Security on the proposals they had made at this level. It was a weather process. Good. What I am asking you, for now, is: how many vacancies does the government plan to add to those that it was waiting for in September, through these amendments to the licensing and automatic approvals of new rooms in establishments that were already ready to receive children? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u116	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr Manuel Loff, on the issue of rankings or not rankings, we are talking about what he said, and well, that is the reading ability about the needs we have and the response capacity we have. This ranking doesn't evaluate anything but that. It does not assess the quality or fictitious ways of evaluating the day care centers. It has nothing to do with it. [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] It has to do only with objective numbers on which the ability to respond to the number of children that exist. I'm sharing with the ladies. Members, and I can distribute exactly the Eurostat coverage rate ranking — so that means « coverage rate », is a relationship between two figures — per country, in the European Union, where Portugal is in fact 7. the place. There is no country in the world that has a coverage rate of 100 %. In Europe, the highest coverage rate is 75 %, which is Denmark's. In fact, I reiterate, even with regard to the assessment of the capacity we would need, that I disagree that we would need the total capacity equal to children between 0 and 3 years old, because there is one part, which I think we all want to respect and promote, which is the ability to monitor children when they are born by their parents. So, right here, there is a dimension of children who are not part of these numbers and, therefore, there is a number that is not such a linear rule. [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] But, of course, I agree with the idea that our great pressure at the moment is actually to increase capacity. If you remember everyone, what the government did was to ensure that all children who met the requirements laid down in the law, who were born after 1 September 2021 and who were in care—which was exactly what we always assumed as a commitment— had free of charge of day care, and that is what we did. We began, of course, by those who were in the social and solidarity sector. If you remember, in September, we did it with the natural network protocoled, which has greater response capacity, but we did it, then, with the private sector day care centers, to be able to extend to more situations, in fact exceeding the forecast we had, of the 40 000, in the first year. The forecast we have now is 70 000 from the second year of this programme. I hope to be able to overcome, because it is a good sign, from the point of view of the capacity to expand the response of social equipment, but this cannot be achieved at any time. That is what we are trying to do and we will continue to do so. By the way, I repeat the numbers I said, just to be clear. What we now have in terms of mobilising resources for PRR and PARES daycare places is 26 000 seats. The expectation that we have with regard to this door, signed yesterday, of simple conversion of pre-existence situations to rooms already dedicated to childhood and increase of both places, is that we can increase 6,000 places, already this year, 2023. That's what we expect. I hope we get it. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I think we need to take some care here, not to turn some assumptions into strawberries, just to turn into big messages, which end up not solving people's problems. I have just said that, in terms of existing day care centres, of day care centers that are of municipalities, we have about 3000 seats. Now, I repeat several times, we have 58 000 children at this time in kindergartens covered by the free of charge. It's not these 3000 places that will save us. On the contrary, we have to have the ability to increase and scale.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u118	But that's what we said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u119	No, when Mr. Deputy tells me that the salvation of all miracles was that these vacancies in the network of municipalities would integrate freeness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u120	That's not what BE proposed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u121	...I think we all quickly realize that this is not a solution, it is complementary. And I repeat — in fact, I have said publicly, Mr Commissioner — that I am fully available, and I think that this is the way, so that, in the very same ways in which the possibility was created to extend the private sector's day care facilities, let us do the same for the day care centres of the municipalities. Of course, as I have said — and well — this implies a change in the basic law and, therefore, it is a structural change, but we are here to make that path and I think that phase-up is really what our ability to respond implies. I recall that in the PRR, the possibility of the chambers to apply for these daycare investments was expressly envisaged. Therefore, any chamber can apply for investment in equipment, to expand and increase the response capacity, which is what we need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u122	Or equipment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u123	Mrs Joana Mortágua, perhaps I will not come here to share dates, or not dates, but in fact we have already sent the door, to simplify the rules, to social sector partners—which are, of course, our partners in the field of cooperation and with whom we have always maintained this collective sharing and construction—absorbing and incorporating many of the suggestions and proposals that have been made to us by the association of private sector education daycare centers. This proposal has already been, many more days ago, for the social sector — probably the honourable Member had access, I do not know whether or not he had — but it was in fact under construction and yesterday was signed, of course, the result of this process that we have built on hearing and after its signature. I'm happy to feel that we're building together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u124	How many vacancies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u125	We now move on to the intervention period. For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Gilberto Anjos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u126	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to thank you from now on for the subject which the Left Block brings to our debate today, with this request to the Government on such a structural and important measure for children and families in Portugal. Free daycare is a decisive and priority measure for the country, either in combating child poverty or in promoting a family support policy, especially for young people, who need support and conditions to stay in Portugal, to empower themselves and become a family. This measure is already a milestone of the Socialist Party in this legislature. This is a truly transformative social policy, which is based on four axes of intervention. The first is to encourage birth. at such a delicate moment for all Portuguese, with the inflationary crisis caused by the invasion of Russia to Ukraine,... [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] ... the freeness of the daycare facilities, together with another vast set of social support measures for families, is a preponderant contribution for Portuguese families, young couples, to be able to carry out their family life projects, without having to account for the costs of daycare, nor have to resort, where possible, to family support. A second axis is the breakdown with the cycle of poverty. This measure is also a help in breaking the poverty cycle, giving children equal opportunity, regardless of their social status and where they were born. In the short term, all children attending day care facilities will have access to the same collective integration system. A third axis that favours reconciliation between personal, family and professional life. The great demand for this public policy, by Portuguese families with children, is in itself proof of the relevance, necessity and importance of this policy, giving a decisive contribution to effective reconciliation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u127	There are creeds... where it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u128	Finally, the freeness of day care also contributes to the strengthening of gender equality. The presence and participation of women in the labour market and even the wrong way in which the labour market, sometimes, still looks at women, often cause women to be discriminated against in relation to men or, moreover, that they should, for historical or cultural reasons, choose to suspend their professional activity, due to the cost that was charged to put their child on a daycare basis. This is, along with other measures, such as parenthood, an accelerated instrument of equality between women and men. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, combating child poverty, promoting integration and equal access and opportunities, supporting families in reconciling personal, family and professional life and promoting women's equality in the labour market are the main objectives of free daycare. This measure is a clear example of the priority and investment that the Government has in families and in children, fulfilled with its electoral programme, that the Socialist Party has borne and is effectively fulfilling. This measure was defined in such a way that it was implemented phased up to 2024 and the numbers are clear and demonstrate, without any misunderstanding, the increasing scope that freeness has had. In September 2022, at the time of its implementation, 36 706 children enjoyed the freedom of the daycare; in October, they became 43 151, in November, there were 44 528 ; and in December, 47 369 were counted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u130	Today we have more than 58 000 children covered by the free daycare system, with the expectation that we will reach 70 000, as of next September, and reach the 100 000 children as of 2024. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to note that this measure does not yet have a year of implementation. The rules have undergone successive improvements in order to be more and more adapted to reality. A good example is the priority criteria, which have enabled the admission of children whose brothers belong to the same family group and frequent a response developed by the same entity, or the extension of the benefit to licensed day care centres of the profit private network. The government thus took on the values of participation, which were paid by families, with a cost of €460 per child. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is €5520 for families, for each child, per year, on a monthly investment of more than €9 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This public policy clearly demonstrates the view that the Socialist Party has about its social function and the strengthening of the social state, where it is really necessary. However, there are natural difficulties and obstacles, which have already been discussed here today, in the implementation of such a profound measure as this one we are discussing, particularly with regard to network coverage. Today, Portugal is 7. the European Union country with higher day care rate value, more than 50 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u132	... well above the average of the European Union, which is 32 %, and even above countries such as Spain, Italy, Greece or Germany. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are about 120 000 places of capacity installed between the public network, solidarity network and profit network, the latter with 7300 places available, plus 5000 requests to be analysed and deferred. A considerable reinforcement is planned, as has already been said, from day care centres through the PRR. A notice was issued for the conversion of places of other responses to day care centres, with a simplified licensing scheme. And if it was necessary to give some proof of the dynamism and continuous work of this government, the government still signed a door yesterday to facilitate the conversion of spaces that were dedicated to children, such as ATL (free time activities) and daycare. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that it seems clear to us that no one who is in this debate with the sense of responsibility that the issue deserves may call into question neither the freeness of day care, nor the effort that the Government has put forward to increase, as quickly as possible, the network available, so as to reach all families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u133	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I assume you're responding together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u135	To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u136	Mr President, Mr Gilberto Anjos, or by chance, wanted to try once again to explain that our problem is not with the merits of the Creche Felis programme, nor with the freeness of the daycare facilities, but with this e-mail, which I received right now, asking to tell the story of this mother, with a child almost one year old, enrolled in the daycare centres in February 2022, and which, after contacting 52 establishments, was unable to have a break in any daycare. This is the drama. The drama is not what you can get, who has the relief in your budget. I think for these, the drama will be another and there will be many dramas in life, it will continue to be inflation, low wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u137	Interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u138	... will continue to be precarious. There are many dramas in the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese, but receiving a check from Creche Felis is not one of them. The drama is for those families who have to run dozens of institutions, institutions behind the institution, looking for a vague one and who simply cannot find, after the government has created, in an electoral period, the promise and expectation that there would be free daycare for all. The honourable Member may say, 'good, but we have always said that it would be a step forward in implementing transitionally and progressively'.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u139	It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u140	All right, but right now, the measure is already in the second and goes to the third year of implementation. In 2023, it is no longer only the children who enter the daycare facilities who are entitled; it is the children who enter the daycare facilities and those who have already attended them and moved to the following year, who are entitled to the free daycare program. And there's no vacancy for those. Therefore, it is obvious that the only conclusion of these people, in addition to frustration, is to say, "I feel wrong" because they said that the program would reach the children of 1. the year in a given year, the second one out there, and that every year would reach the next year, and that's not happening. The Left Block has come here to say that the government has to solve, even if it is an emergency, the problem of vacancies and that, in the short and medium term, there is a measure that seems essential to us. Also, here, I ask the honourable Member's good offices to try to get an idea to the Minister, who seems to have not been understood, perhaps by our failure. We don't just want the 3000 vacancies that already exist in the municipalities to enter the Creche Felis program. That's something that should have existed from the beginning. Neither goes through the head of anyone who does not exist, and that is why PS, PSD, the Liberal Initiative, everyone, came here to propose this. That's not what we're talking about. what we are talking about is the following: when municipalities invest millions in equipment, through European funds or their own budget, and after the equipment is ready to start, it must be an IPSS to take care of the equipment, because the municipality cannot protocol with the social security new vacancies, repeat, new vacancies, whatever their responsibility. I therefore ask you, Mr President, although it is a model of early childhood, the following: we passed a model in which to go to the daycare was or a privilege of those who could pay in private or a social response protocoled to social security. That is, we had a very small coverage rate and 65% of children in poor families did not attend day care centers. That's the number we have. We have moved on to a universalization goal and we think that the financing model can remain the same. The structure financing model was the same. Why? Because it's historical, it's always been like this. If it's always been like this, why change? Change, because we now have different goals; change, because the goal is to universalize access to day care. Therefore, they believe that we can universalize access to day care with 3000 vacancies in the municipalities, and the municipalities are one of the structures that have the greatest capacity to create early childhood equipment, even added to other schools whose responsibility they now hold. The municipalities have kindergarten rooms that can be available to be converted into day care centers. Why can't these kindergartens receive social security funding when they are converted into day care? Do municipalities receive money to finance these schools when they are pre-school, but when they are kindergartens they can no longer finance these schools? What does that make sense? I say more to you, Mr President: what does it mean that you are completely dependent on the social sector? I give you this example. The parish center of Cacilhas has 80 children in day care. The speaker showed a news story. The parish center of Cacilhas, in Almada, for some reason that here does not come to the case, has stopped having a space to run the daytime because the chamber decided not to extend the contract, for reasons we are not here to discuss either. Conclusion : 80 children no longer have day care and access to day care and there is no vacancy for them in Almada. When a private day opens bankruptcy, by a management that has nothing to do with the state, because the private ones, who are owners of the daycare, have led to bankruptcy, there are children who are left homeless. Whose responsibility is it for these children? Is it state? The State did not interfere with management. So you think that the state cannot have a public offer, determined by the municipal chambers, that can serve this right of children to daycare is to wash the hands of children's right to daycare and say that the coverage rate will be the one that the private ones want — and I conclude, Mr President — and the social sector want. Does the state finance how many? Oh, my God! Those they want to open. The State does not determine how many are. This is not the way to universalize access to day care, Mrs. Minister. That is why we will continue to insist on several of the answers we have proposed here, so that, first of all, the authorities can receive the same funding as the IPSS receives to open day care centres, which are so necessary, especially in the metropolitan areas. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u141	I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Members and also the Ministers and the Secretary of State. With regard to requests for clarification, although we know that the Rules of Procedure say it is two minutes, it is clear that, when we are discounting in the time of the parliamentary group, the Bureau is always very tolerant. Now, for a request for clarification, Mrs Lina Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u142	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the freeness of day care and Mr Gilberto Anjos spoke about it. I believe, as Mrs Minister has said, that no one has doubts about the goodness of this policy. The problem is, day care isn't free for everyone. There was no planning on day care centers and the lack of response capacity is notorious. That's why we're here discussing this. But there is still a more serious problem: the lack of facilities and the lack of human resources—I will ask you a question about that. Since she is a Member of Parliament for Lisbon, and being a member of the Port, we also know, according to the Social Charter, that these three districts lack capacity and coverage in the social responses for the first childhood. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u143	There is still a serious problem in Lisbon and Setúbal, which have a higher proportion of closed equipment compared to the creation of social equipment. I'm not the one saying it: it's the Social Charter, on page 18. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u144	Then there are all the inconsistencies that have come out of the law and that have left schools and families completely disoriented. I'm going to say the following: in July 2021, the daycare centers were free for everyone. After two months, it was only for children born on September 1, 2021 who attended the social sector. Then, later came the Ordinance No. 198 / 2022, which says that the vacancies would no longer be for all children, regardless of the socio-economic context in which they lived. Finally, on January 1, 2023, the measure became that there was a free daycare for children born—but only! — 1 September 2021. What does that mean? Oh, my God! What about children who want to attend private, lucrative or social network day care centers without cooperation agreement? Oh, my God! Here, we have a problem again. Bernardo was born on March 23, 2021 and Louisa was born on August 31, 2021 : they will not be entitled to free daycare. Louisa, who was born on 31 August, does not have, but Antonio, who was born on 1 September 2021, already has access to the free wave. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u145	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u146	Bernardo and Luísa attend the same year! I didn't make it up, they sent me this information. As they send to Mrs. Joana Mortagua, they also send me. Bernardo and Luisa attend the same year, Mrs. Minister, but do not have access to free vacancies. What are we talking about here? Oh, my God! This is a budget problem, we also understand. There's a train standard here. There is a train standard here and the PS cannot hide this problem, Mr Gilberto Anjos. It is that we are actually violating the principle of equality with children. Now, as said here by the Liberal Initiative and the Government, we can create, we can reuse facilities. This is all very nice, but where are the teachers and educators of childhood? Oh, my God! Where do they come in? Do they exist for all of this? With government measures in the area of education, we are probably not going to have children's teachers and educators. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u147	It's the ones who get the least, it's the ones who work a lot, and it's them who actually look for the education of our children. I know what I'm talking about, because I'm a teacher too. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u148	So, Minister, we are next to you with proposals. We also want — the PSD came with this measure at the time of the legislation of 2022 — to propose from 0 to 5 years, phased, with planning. I repeat, with planning! Here, the problem is how we're gonna do it. It is a measure with which we all agree effectively, but there is no planning and budget, because this is a budget problem! And when the Budget comes in, we effectively forget about children, families, women, men, all of them. There's no money, we can't make it! But we launched the measure. We're not against you, Minister. Now, we are against that, whenever any party, particularly the PSD, wants to help these measures, the PS always votes against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u149	Not always!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u150	Why? Do we do everything wrong? Are you the only ones who have intelligence for that? We really want to be next to the measures of happy day-care centres and families through the creation of an effective free day-care network, so the PS and the government want to have that understanding. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u151	I could make the same comment I made on the request for clarification from Mrs Joana Mortagua. Generally, it is 2 minutes and Mrs. Deputy has also used more than 5 minutes. You discounted the time of your parliamentary group. To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Gilberto Anjos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u152	Madam President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, let me tell you from now on that I also receive SMS (shortmessage service) and contacts with difficulties of people. We should all get contacts from people who can't get access to a vacancy on a daystand. That is the reality in which we live and we do not escape from that reality, nor do we hide behind it. What is certain is that there is no magic solution to find answers and coverage, from time to time, for all needs and for all the search of families, as regards this measure in particular. It is almost in the air that the Left Block would probably prefer to advance first with the construction, which would take years and years, a public network of day care and only then, effectively, when the network was available, assign freeness to families. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] But the families are in need of support. The 58 000 children who already benefit from free will are being helped, as are numerous families, at a time as difficult as the one we are living in. On the question by Mrs PSD, taking on what was said recently by Mr Nuno Carvalho, on a sheet A4, I mean the following: as I said, 58 000 children are already benefiting from this sheet A4!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u153	It's just a page!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u154	I'd like to know where the PSD sheet is. On those children, Luísa, Bernardo or Antonio, it is important to emphasize that the Luísa of the intervention she did has the right to free thanks to the Government of the Socialist Party and thanks to the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Antonio and Bernardo don't have a chance and you had a chance to do it when you were in government. If I changed the names, I'm sorry, I'm sure they won't mind. I think I have answered your question and I leave only one statement, to conclude: effectively, this child, if he was waiting for the PSD to have free day care,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u155	You're in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u156	... probably would have access to the old age pension before that! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We continue to talk about day care, which I want to address in two areas. The first one inevitably passes through the portrait, but it also goes by talking about what we want from our day care centres and the policy of early childhood. The picture of 2021 : of the 223,000 children aged between 0 and 3 years, only 101,000 were mostly in day care; the coverage rate was 53 %. These values have already been discussed here, but what seems to continue to be not understood is that we need to practically double the offer and the question that was asked about how many more vacancies we will have in September, without a satisfactory answer. If the government welcomes the increase in the coverage rate in the last year, we maintain what is clearly expressed in the Social Charter of 2021: the increase in the coverage rate is mainly due to the decrease in the population of the age group from 0 to 3 years and not to the increase in supply. The low persistent coverage and increasing pressure result from greater interest in the frequency of day care centres and, well, in the legitimate expectation of the policy announced, but unfortunately, they were free promises. The following year, fortunately, we had more growth, because there were more births in 2022 and 2021, particularly in Porto and Lisbon, districts with lower coverage rates. It is also important to remember that access is unequal in social classes — we remember that 67% of children up to 3 years of poorer families do not go to day care — and geographically. Port, Setúbal and Lisboa have far below average rates, which makes coverage vis-à-vis the resident population, for example, to be 37 % in Porto. We need to expand the offer. This involves reducing licensing times, speeding up conversion of rooms, reviewing operationalization, reducing pending processes, which still remain, of many private day care centers, to get into the network. It is necessary to create the credibility of the State itself as a partner, in order to encourage the most young people to enter the network, which will serve as a good incentive, and, as we have demonstrated, there are many opportunities to expand the vacancies. But let us not forget, in particular with regard to the creation of a network of public day care centres, that the State is not a good manager,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u159	It's the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u160	He's not a good landlord, he's not a good school principal. If we're talking about offer, we also need to remember what we really want from day care. The first childhood is an extraordinary importance for the development of the child and as a policy of social mobility. We have recently recalled, particularly here, in this House, around Child Day, the relevance of childhood policy and the impact of the first 1000 days. Having a policy of childhood implies many things; necessarily, it implies that daycare is not at the level of the Ministry of Social Security, but at the level of the Ministry of Education, and that the first years are integrated into a basic law of teaching, having a guiding thread oriented to the development of the child and not a caretentialist remnant of the vision of the woman or the child. We have also heard today about European rankings. What we have not heard say, when we talk about these comparisons, is that Portugal persists in having one of the highest percentages of female participation in the labour market due to need and that, during maternity, women have difficulty going out and back into the labour market. When we talk about comparisons with other countries, we also need to take this into account. We must also bear in mind that what we want from our daycare centers is especially important, in a country where 88% of children are between 6 and 10 hours on daycare centers and where more than 50 % are between 8 and 10 hours. So we have to be critical and ambitious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u161	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u162	Yes, Madam President. The Liberal Initiative, in relation to the votes you had, soon realized what were the free promises that were being made. I shall finish by saying three essential points in which we do not hesitate, in relation to the issue of day care: first, that there is a universal guarantee of the frequency of day care;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u163	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u164	... second, that it is oriented towards development; third, that it is oriented towards equal opportunities. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u165	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the Left Block for bringing this issue to debate. Since the discussion began on the freeness of daycare for all children in Portugal, the NAP has never stolen from the debate, quite the contrary, has always contributed positively to the same and always in order to ensure the full coverage of this freeness, without ideological prejudices, which would effectively allow the removal of obstacles in access to free daycare. It was precisely for this purpose, and having this in mind, that we proposed that the costs for children enrolled in private day care should be shared in areas where there is no public offer. That is also why we proposed in the State Budget for 2023 that a survey of the existing public responses should be made and that the most deprived areas should be identified in response to the needs of families, so that it would be possible, precisely, to create a public network of day care centres covering Portugal from tip to tip, and, above all, without leaving any family outside. We have recently heard the Minister mention a measure that we, of course, welcome the sharing of parental leave, but the gender equality or the right of children to access the daycare centre is not achieved only by parental leave. The absence of a network covering the whole country, free of charge, particularly for the most vulnerable families, also pushes women into the domain of the family sphere—when it is cheaper to stay at home than to pay, for example, a nurse or a private day. Contrary to what the NAP has done, the Socialist Party ends up being part of the problem rather than the solution, rejecting all the proposals that we put forward to ensure the freeness of day care for all families. In fact, we can see what happened when we discussed proposals on this subject, in which the PS preferred to do what we have already been accustomed to: to reject all the projects of the other political forces of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reality, we all know it, and here are given several examples of the families that bring us their concerns and that go through these difficulties. Currently, the coverage rate of free daycare is only 50%, the application process is long and bureaucratic and the articulation of this program with private daycare is confusing and uncertain, leaving thousands of families without coverage. These problems are not at present, but the government insists on not solving them, when it has power — indeed, absolutely! — to do. Now again, the concern of the vacancies, especially in the large urban centres of Lisbon and Porto, as well as the possible lack of children's educators in the day care centres, endangering the opening of these establishments, and therefore the creation of a network of public day care centres cannot be a failure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Minister, do not open the sphere of participation to families who do not have a public daycare solution, but who may have a private solution, is to contribute to the failure of this programme and to contribute to the maximum 'happy family' or 'happy day' being a mere illusion or mere partisan propaganda. We want the government to ensure that no daycare facilities will be closed for lack of educators and that no child will have this option for lack of coverage. Finally, referring to the need for a social change. We're talking about day care, but we need to talk about more time for the family. Parental leave was a step, but we need to go further.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u168	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. We need time for family and well-being and, above all, so that women do not, repeatedly, continue to be pushed into the sphere of private life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u169	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u170	Madam President, Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Members: Today we note that the Government's Creche Feliz programme has actually become in the programme « children and unhappy families ». I am sorry to have to return to this point, but unfortunately they do not leave me a great alternative. It is that one of the major conclusions of feminism, which has already been mentioned here by the Minister, is that it is supposedly necessary to free women from that almost biological determinism from having to be mothers caring for their children, having been theorized by feminism itself the need to have a universal response to day care and state institutions. Conclusion: they have created the need in women and are now unable to respond to these needs that they have created!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u171	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u172	They told us about great careers, they talked to us about being what we want, and now the truth is they're pushing us home again, for the care of our children, for lack of alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u173	That's a pity of speech! A misery!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u174	Yes, ladies, the so-called feminists! It's proven here that your ideology actually slips away and, to understand that this is a fact, I bring you some testimony.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u176	A witness from an anonymous mother, because, afraid of being excluded, she asks us not to mention her name, which says: « Good afternoon, Dr. André Ventura, the government calls for an increase in birth and then leaves the parents alone. I was a mother in January 2023, and in February I ran to the kindergartens of Vila do Conde and Póvoa de Varzim to register my son. I got answers that there are no vacancies for this school year, also telling me that the vacancies are already filled for the next school year. Go to the service of social security lovers and the answer is that everything is crowded, there are no vacancies. My maternity leave ends at the end of this month and in July I will have to get back to work. The solution may be to say goodbye to my work and become a dependent on me to get a daytime break for my son. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u177	Well, there it is! [[Exactly!]] [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u178	The second witness, which comes to us from Santarém and around us, says: "I am a father, full-time worker, I have two daughters, one year old and another three years old, and we have been, ever since we were born, looking for a daycare, always unsuccessful. They always say that there are no vacancies and the excuse is that those who have priority are the children of divorced parents and the children of parents who come from abroad. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u179	What? Oh, my God! It can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u180	Exactly! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u181	Now they say there are privileges for the children of divorced parents? Oh, my God! This is unstoppable!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u182	"My wife is also working only part-time, she can't pass the full-time, because she has to stay with the children. Everything is getting more and more expensive... » [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u183	You have to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u184	They only tell life stories that interest them, don't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u185	You have five minutes to intervene! You ask for the word and you speak next!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u186	Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u187	I continue as soon as there are conditions in the House, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u188	There are conditions, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u189	Thank you very much. I quoted the testimony of this father, who I think is as valid as any other witness that has already been mentioned here, who said that everything is increasingly expensive and that this family does not grow financially, because it has nowhere to leave its children. The third testimony is from a mother who has a 3-month-old baby and who in May needed to go to work. She began looking for day care centers, enrolled her baby, however, has no vacancy at any daytime — in the area of Alfragide, Amadora, Lisboa — having contacted more than 50. This mother tells us that, unfortunately, the priorities and support go to the most, among the quotes, "necessary". They're going to those who're going to leave babies in the nursery to go for a walk and talk, because they don't work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u190	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u191	We also have an opposite testimony, of problems, now on the side of the daycare centers. Father Vítor tells us that, in his case and in the case of many parents, the daycare centers that joined the program in January are already giving up because social security is delayed in payments in about two months, becoming unsustainable for the daycare centers to keep working, in their entirety, without the entry of money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u193	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not ask you to leave your offices and to hear the ordinary citizens, because I know that it is much more comfortable to be here in Lisbon. What I ask is that at least they open your emails and read these testimonies, because I am sure that, in the same way as they arrive at the Parliamentary Group of Arrival, they are also addressed to the Ministers. Therefore, in view of these real testimonies of common Portuguese, I am sure that they will not say that it is the extreme right and the xenophobia that we are talking about here in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u195	No, we don't have to say, you said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u196	This is merely common sense and reality, because only in one country on the contrary is that the socialist slogan "family first" means putting the families of those who work in the last place! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u197	The divorced women don't work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u198	Only in a country on the contrary is that the parents and mothers who work and pay taxes are penalized—see! — for the purpose of working and discounting, with the taxes of their wages. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u199	This is why the arrival announces, here today, that it will present a project that asks for the revision of this program, returning priority in vacancies to children of working parents who, above all, support the advances of our Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u200	Only those who are married by the Catholic Church can have access! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u201	Above all, we stop penalizing families and ordinary citizens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u202	Ask for the word! You've got five minutes! Ask the word, if you want to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u203	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u204	Madam President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot but begin this intervention with a clear message, which is essential to leave in this Parliament. It is important to help working parents, of course, but there are many parents who are looking for employment and who also need the same support and help. [[PSD applause.]] We cannot fall into speeches that forget others, who have all the legitimacy to seek their work and jobs. The Minister knows perfectly well that what was needed was to create a system, a system for people to access and, of course, that would not allow half of the country outside of what should be a free daycare access system. What happened and happens right now, in this Parliament, is that a Minister of the Socialist Party came here to say that there is not yet a solution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u206	... neither short, nor medium, nor long-term, for a problem that excludes half of the country. [[PSD applause.]] The existing coverage rate means that half of the country is excluded. The gentlemen, when they launched this measure, knew they had to have a plan, but they failed in the plan. I mean, they planned a failure! You planned a failure for the families and did not contact IPSS, did not contact the private. They left them for the last hour and didn't contact them, not because they didn't know they existed; they knew they were necessary and intentionally left the privates and the IPSSs out. Only many months after this sheet was released—I, a while ago, said 'paper'; I'm sorry, it's just a leaf, because the other side is blank—is that they tried to fill and fill the failures. The speaker displayed the sheet he mentioned. What you got here, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, it is very simple: an election promise. What's this, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? I'm going to tell you, with all sincerity: it's bazaar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u207	Who's he doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u208	It's bazaar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u209	Who's he doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u210	You moved from the government from management to the bazaar.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u211	Who's he doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u212	They've been vandalized! It's too much vanity. It's a trust that leaves half the country out. You don't bring a single solution to those outside.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u213	What's yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u214	The Social Democratic Party has put forward nine initiatives to deal with these same situations, and you have almost all of them, only approved one. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u215	But they were all announced before the corrections they had to make. The gentlemen have failed! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, from management to the bazaar, that is what you are announcing here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u216	The Bureau notes that the honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u217	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuno Carvalho, I have been listening very carefully, but I would not need to hear what you were going to say. PSD Members always say that it is: everything is always wrong, nothing is right. You always bring chaos, disaster, to this kind of discussion! [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u218	Isn't that enough? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u219	So I don't wonder what kind of speech and intervention you did. In fact, it is consistent with what they usually say: that the devil came there when he did not come; that the crisis came there, but that it did not come after all; that economic growth came before. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Therefore, it is always the same narrative, Mr. Deputies. But this is a narrative that has no basis for facts, because in the end, Mr Deputies, instead of such a bazaar and such a copy of what you are talking about, what remains seems to be that you are envious of what the PS government has done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that you would have liked to have done and could not have done. It's just that when you said you were doing it, you didn't! [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] Free daycare was implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party, and you would like to have done so, but you have failed to do so. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u220	But I am giving you other examples, Mr President. For example, with regard to the investment of the PS Government in children, in support of families, you brought a sheet and I will bring you a chart. The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. in this chart, you can see that in 2014 — do you remember? Oh, my God! — the investment by the PSD Government was EUR 1026 million. Currently, Member of Parliament, the investment for families is EUR 1801 million. So it's totally different! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD, CH and IL Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u221	You can't see that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u222	Look, do you see this line? Oh, my God! The speaker pointed to the chart he displayed. He always grew up, while with the gentlemen he always went down. Other examples could give you, but I am moving forward because Mr Gilberto Anjos has already mentioned them in his speech. I just wanted to tell you something else that has to do with the vacancies. Mr President, there is an essential issue, too, that completely breaks this narrative. It is that there are more than 198 municipalities in Portugal, which represent about 70 % of the national territory, where there are no jobs in the lucrative network. And I'm not just talking about less populous municipalities. For example, we have councils such as Águeda, Barcelos, Guimarães, Bragança, Figueira da Foz, Tavira, Guarda, Alcobaça, Portalegre, Abrantes, Torres Novas, Lamego, and out there—there are no populous councils—in which there is no offer of a lucrative network. Question: Why, honourable Member? Perhaps because it is not necessary, because the public network, the solidarity network, the social sector network, with the effort that has been made by this sector gradually, little by little, has solved the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u223	What a fool! That's not what they said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u224	Finally, Mr President, do you honestly say that you are jealous, or not, of having been the PS government implementing these measures? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u225	To reply, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u226	Madam President, Mr Deputy, you have probably seen me take notes while I was listening, with attention. I envy, I don't have, but I have something to remember. In the back of this sheet A4, I wrote the name of some people who contacted us — Antonio, Francisca, Luísa, Joana, Maria — and who are out of these measures. [[PSD applause.]] Sir, have you spoken to them? Don't! Envy? No, Mr. Member, but worry about the country, yes, and a lot, because it's just bazaar. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u227	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was on the proposal of the CFP that free day care centres began to apply in 2020 to children of the poorest families, covering about 30,000 babies. It was as a result of a PCP initiative approved by this House in October 2021 that babies born after 1 September 2021 became entitled to free daycare. It is an important step on a path that needs to be done more quickly than has been done. It is a proposal that was not included in the Socialist Party's programme and that only the insistence of the Communist Party imposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u229	That's right! Don't forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u230	This need for children and families has always been encountered by the government and the PS, delays, protections and pretexts to limit the number of children covered. Since the planned enlargement is important, it is clearly insufficient, because it does not immediately cover children aged 2 and 3 and because there are not enough vacancies for all babies. There is no reason why the Government will not immediately extend freeness to all children who have a day job, as I mentioned in the question which I just asked Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security a few minutes ago. The current situation is socially unsustainable. The childcare response is dependent on the offer, in the vast majority, of institutions in the social and cooperative sector, but also in the private sector, being the lack felt especially in urban areas. After several other examples with names, I will give an example without names, of something that happens and that is a practical situation that has also been transmitted to us, which is natural, because the citizens contact us all. A baby was born in the last quarter of 2022. Parents register, within the deadlines, on several daycare centers in the Lisbon area, specifically in the area of residence and, of course, in the areas of their work. At the end of the first quarter of this year, of 2023, the parents, eager for a positive response, try to put questions to social security, this because the process is not clear. The only response obtained in relation to the possibility of absence of a break in day care is the following: see the site, install the Creche Felis app. [[Laughing from PCP MP João Dias.]] Install the application. There is a form of formalization of interest, which is filled out, sometimes without account, and the answer is that there are currently no vacancies, and they must consult the application. And time passes. Looking for vacancies for other ages, there are vacancies in two day care centers in the Lisbon area, but, contacting the so-called day care centers, the same answer is that they do not have breaks. It's the app! The attempt to get clarification, by telephone, for the social security service line always results in the following answer: the attendees know nothing about the Creche Feliz program. So the parents ask: “If it’s not with social security, with whom is it? The answer is that we do not know: "We do not know, but address themselves at the social security desk in your area of residence. However, he does not exist. You go to the Citizen's shop, and there you are told that the information you need is given by the parish board, because that is where you are dealing with matters related to day care. Contact the board and the parents are referred to a social worker, who says that the parish board has no interference with the Creche Felis program, but, if they want, they can try again next year. The alternative right now is to contact private colleges with cribs, which are very few, and the Minister knows - you know. They charge an average of 500 € soon on registration and, of course, they won't have any more vacancies. It is essential to create a public network to ensure at least 100 000 vacancies, which are estimated to be lacking, while meeting the objective of ensuring the universality of the response of day care centres in Portugal, the coverage of the entire national territory and the guarantee of equal conditions for all children in access to a quality response in this context irrespective of their economic conditions. The freeness of the daycare takes particular importance in the lives of families and is a stimulus to birth. It is a measure with a very positive impact, since it allows a family to be sure to know that, taking the decision to have a child, it has ensured the child's response and that it is free of charge. We have a serious demographic deficit, which has worsened in recent years, and all studies show that people of childbearing age want more children. in this sense, if many young Portuguese people who emigrate have children in foreign countries to where they go, it is natural to deduce that they could have them in our country. The Minister speaks to us of a historical model based on the supply of IPSS. « It is a historical model», she just told us. Madam Minister, allow me to say the following: it is not because I am a historian, but it is as if we returned to 120 years ago, when, in this same House, was a Minister of Public Education of the Monarchy — to which I would probably respond a bench of the Republican Party, which would sit on the very same side where we are, the communists —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u231	Are they still there? Oh, my God! ... to say that there was a historical model, and the historical model was to be private and Catholic schools offering secondary education in Portugal. Therefore, it led the State to negotiate with these Catholic and private colleges, for it was with them. It's a historical model!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u233	My lords, Mrs. Minister, but what historical model? Oh, my God! Imagine that we were still — 120 years later! — to discuss whether the State created a public network of public education services! But what century are we in? When does the State realize that it has obligations—as a political and administrative arm of society—to the older, to the younger? Of course, it also has obligations for children from 0 to 3 years old and for their parents and mothers. The CFP argues that the implementation of a public network of day care centres is the best way to ensure the universalization of the gratuitousness and the extension of the vacancies necessary for our population. This represents the fulfilment of a social function of the State, a function of which management and operation must call upon itself, allowing to create conditions and change the criteria for the admission and placement of children in child support equipment, in true connection with the needs of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u234	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u235	I conclude, Madam President. You and you know this — we will not give up until these rights are realized! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u236	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Sousa from the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u237	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : We are debating in this House, once again, the policies to support children, and the issues relating to the deficit of vacancies in day care are the epicenter of this discussion. It should be noted once again that it is and has been with the governments of the Socialist Party that these policies have been drawn up and implemented in a concerted way, with concrete and transversal measures to support families and, in particular, children. For the Socialist Party and for this government, children and their families are the priority, and it is for them and for them that we must continue our work. The objectives are very concrete: we must continue to fight poverty and promote equal opportunities, ensuring dignified living conditions for all children, regardless of their condition of birth. Therefore, it is essential to continue to build and implement a set of child support policies: policies that support families with children, through measures that aim to increase the income available, investing in children; policies that allow to break down cycles of poverty, which, in many cases, begin in early childhood; policies that allow families to guarantee more and better quality of life with their children. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, field work and results speak for themselves: support for families with children increased by 70 % compared to 2015, representing an investment of more than 740 million euros. For the Socialist Party, child support policies are even priority. For this reason, the family allowance was strengthened in the first and second steps, in order to guarantee 600 € annually, covering about 400 000 children and young people. The entry of 80 000 children was possible on the third step. The single-parent increase in family allowance was increased to 50 % for the first step and 42 % for the remaining steps. With the creation of automatic child guarantee provision, 155 000 children are currently covered. With the extension of parental leave, parents can accompany their children in the first year of life, increasing the value of the allowance in situations where parental leave is shared. The Dignified Work Agenda is also an instrument for promoting and reconciling professional, personal and family life. As has been widely mentioned here, about 58 000 children are currently covered by the free daycare programme, with very positive financial impacts on families. There is also the reinforcement of 10 000 places in day care centres, as has already been mentioned, achieved through the PARES and the PRR. We know and are aware that, with these measures, we have not yet managed to remove all children from poverty. We have not yet managed to solve all the difficulties of families, but we do not lower our arms and every day will be a new battle in search of solutions, since, for the Socialist Party and for the Government, it is priority to continue to combat poverty, to promote equal opportunities, ensuring dignified living conditions for all children and young people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was for this purpose that the Portuguese and Portuguese appointed us...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u238	Was that all it was for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u239	... in the last elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u240	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. In order to make this request for clarification, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u241	Madam President, Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Members, returning approximately 2 hours and 15 minutes from this debate, I have not yet heard any Member, party or even the Government talking about the social response of day care in the interior of the country, in the low-density territories. [[PSD applause.]] in this case, Mrs. Minister, we are not talking about the existence of vacancies, but about the rarity or absence of the social childcare response itself. This says a lot about the political representativeness, in this House, of the interior of the country and how it is underrepresented in this House, in this Government and in this Ministry. The Left Block is, and well, concerned about the vacancies, but there are no vacancies in day care because we know that the planning of the social response failed in the Ministry over eight years. It failed, because, at this time—but also during the time of management, when the Left Block was with the Socialist Party at the lap—, it did not identify day care as a priority response at the ISS (Instituto de Seguridad Social).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u243	Therefore, the Minister, especially in low-density territories, did not have the ability to look at social responses as a piece of art of high-costing, because this is how social responses should be addressed — they must be made as far as the territory, the circumstances and the vicissitudes are concerned. [[PSD applause.]] This Parliament — and also this government — is what it does, the sewing for everyone, is a ready-to-dresser, so that who can then be unraveled. I would like to recall that the first cooperation commitment signed by management with the social sector, for the two years 2015 - 2016, did not elect day care as a priority response, and only in 2021 is that the Minister agreed to this problem. In Mourão, there is no vacancy, because there is no daycare, Mrs. Minister. You can laugh at it, but it is a very serious matter for the mourans. If these mourans were to depend on PS, only at the age of retirement would they have a daycare. [[PSD applause.]] However, it won't be that way, and you know why, Minister? Because, in 2021, the PSD won this Chamber and, at the moment, it has already secured funding project. So we're gonna have a daycare at Mourão. At this date, because today the debate is taking place, Mourão is the only municipality in the country that does not have a daycare. Therefore, you may well say that you are very concerned about day care, and in eight years you have not been able to solve the problem, and the Minister has come here to take on this. At the beginning of his speech, he came to assume that only yesterday he was able to take a small, small step towards solving a structural problem. But I'm going to give other examples: we have Alandroal with a daycare, for 15 users; Mora also has a daycare, for 40 users, and Borba has a daycare. In the district of Beja, we have 33 day care centers and, in Évora, 48 day care centers for 14 municipalities. Therefore, we within the country are systematically renegade to the background, also at the level of investment in social responses. Eurostat came to say, a few days ago, in a study...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u244	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u245	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u246	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u247	Eurostat has come to say that Alentejo will lose 25 % of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u248	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u249	You don't think so, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u250	Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u251	She'll finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u252	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u253	Madam Member, when the President or the President of the Bureau addresses a Member, he is in favour of saying, "I am done now, Madam President", and you did not say so, and you did not even interrupt... [[I said, I said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u254	I said, Madam President. I'm sorry, but I said. I shall conclude, Madam President, with a question: Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, Minister, do you not think that, in view of these issues, it is essential to review the planning of the social child care response also within the country in order to avoid their abandonment? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u255	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The honourable Member said that - there are those who say that and I trust you - but the ladies and gentlemen. Members must be aware that here at the Bureau you hear very badly and that there is just some background noise so you do not hear exactly what you are saying. As the honourable Member continued to speak and speak, turned to that side, I thought I had not even heard my alert.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u256	Madam President, you have to pay attention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u257	So it's all clear and we're going to go on. In response to this request for clarification, Mrs Cristina Sousa has the floor. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u258	Madam President, I would also like to thank the honourable Member for her non-question. You will excuse me, Madam Member, but what you did was an intervention, not a question. [[Protests by PSD Members Nuno Carvalho and Sonia Ramos.]] Let me tell you the following: indeed, the measures that are being implemented by the government... [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] [[Pause.]] If you would like to hear me, Mrs. Member... The measures being implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party are cross-cutting measures throughout the territory. I also recall the disinvestment that occurred throughout the country when the PSD was in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also say, Mrs. Member, that many would like to be the father and mother of the child, but it is effectively the Socialist Party the father and mother of the child, since it created this measure of freeness of day care, as this will be implemented little by little. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] Finally, I say that we have actually done so by implementing this measure and we also do so by increasing the network. That is why the Portuguese and Portuguese elected us, and that is why the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party are working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u259	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we get to this point in the debate, it is important to tell you that many have been the issues already discussed here: freeness, which, after all, was no longer for everyone, then enlargement to the private, the delay in paying to the private, and even difficulties on the portal, for the access of the private to social security. Many were the themes. But there is another issue that is important to talk about. As politicians, we have the responsibility to look at the population and the debate is not only about the exchange of handcuffs and insults, as has already been heard, but about specific cases. [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]] It is important to know from what I am going to explain: a mother in Braga is informal caregiver of the older child, with 95% of proven disability, that is, with severe and chronic disability. It has the status of informal caregiver, spends much of the day with this child in hospitals, in therapies, in clinics and similar. She's got a 3-year-old girl, happily, very well, and she's going to have a third child in August. He applied for pre-registration in 42 day care centers in Braga district — between Braga, Barcelos, Amares and Vila Verde. He made 42 pre-registrations! Some have refused immediately, because they do not have a vacancy. Others said it was practically impossible. Another said that by the time he was born in August, at the beginning of the school year, in September, he was not yet 3 months old, so they could not accept it. Mr. Minister, this, in a social state, is worrying. What do we, as politicians, respond to a mother who has these problems? What we respond to is a mother who lives daily in the difficulty of solving the problems that she already has with the two children and that she will have another one, which is not having where to put a third child because there are no vacancies in 42 pre-registrations in daycare done! How do you solve this? This is the central theme of the debate we must have here. This is why we are elected: to solve the real problems of the citizens and not to be here throwing mushrooms at the target.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u261	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u262	This is why we were elected. This is the question I ask you: what do we answer to this citizen, a worried mother? That was the first point I had to put to him. Then, the Left Block brings a subject to debate and unfortunately does not know what it is talking about. Mrs. Joana Mortágua says that they can't have a baby. But they can! Here is an approved recommendation published in the Diário da República on 13 April 2023, in recent cases, recommending to the Government the progressive extension of the freeness of day care centres, etc. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. Point 2 states: « Assigns free pay to day care provided by public entities not covered by Law No 2 / 2022. » Here it is! And you don't even have to go far: in the district of Lisbon, there are strawberries with day care and the Minister knows that. In conclusion, Madam Minister, there is another serious problem that we also have to the north. In the municipality of Guimarães, the municipality made an inter-administrative contract of delegation of competence in the parish to provide schools and day care for more employees, because they cannot accept students with disabilities because they do not have vacancies. However, they have accepted requests — and some are already attending schools, others are not — of 1200 immigrant students, only within a school year, who, according to the information of the municipality, have priority. They have priority because they come from outside! So the question is this: do we take our children, do we not accept children with disabilities, because we want to accept immigrants?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u264	Madam Minister, this needs an urgent explanation, I repeat, urgent! That's what I'd like to hear from you. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u265	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u266	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: In the process of closing this debate, the Socialist Party has first of all to thank the Left Block for its schedule because it has allowed the country to clarify the Creche Happy Programme and certainly for the difficulties that this programme has had. The policy is not without difficulties, it is to solve them that we are here and, above all, to understand the progress we have made on this matter. of what we heard from the different parties, particularly starting from the parties to the right, in fact, if we were to wait for the policies of the PSD and its allies so that children who today need a day leave to work would have them, they would already be grandparents when they showed up and would be to put their grandchildren in. This is because, in fact, you have not submitted measures, you have not put forward proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u267	You're the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u268	That, therefore, is what remains of the debate. On our left there is criticism, which is somewhat extraordinary of, as it is not possible, from one moment to the other, from Friday to one second, from one month to one month to the next, from one year to the next, to strike all the children who need daycare, we should not start a program that is gradual and take place at daycare to more than 58 000 children, because not all can still take place at daycare.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u269	It's when they were grandparents!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u270	These are places that are being extended with the measures that have been announced today by the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u272	The daycare centers became free for all children born after 1 September 2021 who initially attended the social network of daycare centers, the family daycare centers with cooperation agreements and social security lovers. This project has been extended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u273	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u274	Last month, in May 2023, 58,600 Portuguese children benefited from day care facilities under the Creche Feliz Program, with about 5000 of them on the private network, in the lucrative network. [[Protests by PSD Member Sonia Ramos and PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] So there's no ideological prejudice here. The private network simply accounts for only 19 % of the entire network of day care centres in the country and is mainly concentrated in urban centres and not in the interior, as mentioned above. That is why the Socialist Party has to make this balance, giving regional convergence and capilarity to places and vacancies in day care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u276	We have been here hearing about several emails, several testimonies, but I would really like to hear about the testimony, the email of the 58,600 places that currently exist on the day-care centers, and that are occupied by children, who would not have them without the Socialist Party program. The program will be progressively extended to all children. There was a 10 000-seat reinforcement under the RPP. Yesterday, Mr.Minister announced a door to allow the conversion and conversion of places and spaces that are suitable, for example, for ATL and CATL (free-time activities centres) in places and places for day care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u277	You've spent your time, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u278	We will allow more children to attend the daycare facilities in the already existing vacancies. This is the way that is being made, a path, indeed, that is compatible with the social support measures that have been highlighted here by the Socialist Party Members. So what remains of this debate is that if the opposition can criticize, here is the Socialist Party to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u279	At the end of the debate period, we will move on to the closing period. To that end, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u280	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This final sentence of the honourable Member deserves some weighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u281	It's creative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u282	When the country rises and says that the government promises, but does not meet, when, in fact, people feel needs in their lives for these breaches, when we expose here the emails that demonstrate reality, for the government not to say that it was invented by the opposition parties, what the PS says is that "there are problems, but the PS solves". No, Mr President, the PS is not solving the problems, so there was this debate and it is good that the Left Block brought it, because at least it draws attention to «the king going naked». You will say to Mrs. Minister: « No, go partly dressed! » All right, Mrs. Minister, then it goes partly naked in this context too. Indeed, there is a promise that the government has made and in which it is failing, creating injustice in society, creating despair in people who were expecting something, because they have set their outlook on life in certain safeguards, to which the government is responding. The Government, as it has also been acknowledged here, is not doing everything possible to solve this problem, particularly in the context we brought here, from the authorities. The Minister says: "Well, but that's not enough. Right, but that's not doing as could There is the question of love and, in relation to them, they say: "Well, we are also..." But no, you are not, Mrs Minister, because, as far as you are concerned, one of the other historical instruments that the Government had in order to solve this problem, you are not doing what you should do either. Just look at the concrete: instead of having to hire lovers, we have women threatened with dismissal with government action. But more: about the other professionals who are currently dedicated to day care centers, they are not told the time of service if, from today to tomorrow, they want to compete with the kindergartens. It's not told! What's that called? Career Valuation? Is it called appreciation of professionals? It is called to bring people who will need the system tomorrow to fulfill the promise. They will be needed, as we already see in school, and we will also have this in the JI (child gardens) and day care centers. However, the government, knowing these problems, does not solve them, does not anticipate them, promises. It promises, but as it does not anticipate and does not solve, the consequence is these inequalities. There are inequalities throughout the country, inequalities that affect those who have more or less money in the portfolio, inequalities that nude the essential, which is: the politics of birth in this country is more promising than reality. The policy of birth in this country, which is the oldest in Europe, does not respond even to the few births it has. This country's birth policy, which should be a national plan to change, is, after all, one of the problems that makes people not have that choice in their lives. Could we say, is there a wage problem? There is, there is! Is there an inflation problem? There is, there is! Is there a problem of a lack of dignity in incomes, in life that can lead? Yes, it does! But there is also a lack of public policies in this area and, therefore, I am glad that the Left Block has marked this debate and I greet the Minister for coming to this debate. The Minister acknowledged here that there are legal amendments that need to be made. The question that remains to be answered at the end is: for when? from the Left Block, we have already submitted a bill for this purpose, when will the government bring it and when will it give guidance to the PS not to plummet everything that the opposition presents? Because then they'll see the light, months later, sometimes years later, when, in fact, the solution was already here on the table, but they voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u283	The PS does not receive instructions from the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u284	The problem is that 'while the stick goes and comes', they do not roll their backs, on the contrary, everything gets worse and the promises that the government makes are to be fulfilled. We insist on what we said from the beginning. This is a debate which is summarized in a very simple way: there are no breaks in day care centres in our country. The government promised that it would solve this problem and promised that access would be free, but there are no jobs left in our country. Where is the solution, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u285	Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, I should like to thank this explanation and this debate, because I think it is a very critical and fundamental issue for our country, and I think it is very important that the focus on children is also being discussed in this House and taken as a priority. I think it is obvious, for all of us, and we have assumed this, that investment in children makes the difference, besides being the most important investment and with more return to our choices as a society. This is crucial for our collective future and that is why we have put all the mobilization and priority of our investments in children and families with children. at this time, in terms of the mobilization of public resources for families with children, in the social security budget in 2023, we have EUR 1800 million in the most various initiatives, either in strengthening the family allowance, as I mentioned at the outset, either in the creation of the Guarantee for Children, which is a structurally transformative measure and which seeks to cut down cycles of poverty that we know to persist – is through the fight against poverty in families with children we can cut them — or in the freeness of the day care we are talking about here. These EUR 1800 million, for our notions, mean an investment of more than 70% of what was done in families with children in 2015. This is to have the notion of what it is to speak and what it is to do, to see the great difference between begging and realising. Of course, the freeness of day care is a structural measure within this investment we are making, either because it is a measure of support for families, liquidity, young people, or because it is a measure that structurally breaks with historical traditions that, if not, perhaps, would not have allowed her to be here, of which I am very proud and that are the symbol of women's equal public participation in politics. Kindergartens can be crucial for this equality between men and women to occur in a more natural and normal way, and there is also a true equal opportunity for children to ensure that, since they are born, they have the capacity to be part of a collective system of equal opportunities that allows them to grow and have a development equal to any one of the children. The freeness of day care, I would say, is really the real button, a social elevator tool that we are creating here in a real way. We cannot allow ourselves to be struck by so many statements that I have heard here and that they seem to want to put down the freeness of day care, one of the most transformative measures in our country. I will not let that happen, I think that no Government of the Socialist Party will let that happen. What we really have is to ensure that this measure can reach more people, and that's what we're going to do, not with palliatives or strawberries. [[PCP protests.]] We are here to reach more children, aware of the need and difficulty and, since it is even a transforming measure, there are more and more people who want to be part of it. We have also created an app to make this management of freeness and available vacancies more effective, so that people don't have to go knocking on the door if I don't know how many day carers to get to know. [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] I'm taking advantage of it to tell a number of Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who were here quoting specific cases... [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] He asked them not to interrupt me, if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u287	Aparts are regimental!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u288	Regarding some specific cases mentioned here, I would like to say that we consulted App Creche Felis and there were vacancies. Therefore, I ask and alert to the need to consult the Happy Creche App, because it is even the best way to have the information updated. Almada had vacancies, Santarém had vacancies — these were some of the situations that were identified here. I also leave some concrete notes. We seek that Creche Happy is a real inclusion program and that it has the ability to include children who need it most, so we have children of 1. o is 2. the steps currently in the 58 000 children who already have free day care. In addition, we also sought that the criteria were objective and that they represented the needs of society. The first criterion is to be children who were already on the day care center, to allow there to be a continuity the following year. The second is for children with disabilities. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to give this answer to those who ask for such information. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I use to say that we try to read all the emails and information that comes to us. That is why we are constantly trying to respond with effective rather than palliative measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u289	If you answer, how do you answer Parliament's questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u290	Mr President, I am constantly responding to people, seeking that my ability to answer is based on specific cases that inspire me to respond better. I've heard of free promises here. These free promises mean EUR 27 million which we are paying these children with free daycare every month. This is 27 million a month. If this is a free promise, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to know what other promises will be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u291	But how many are there! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u292	I conclude by saying that we are here to do, to do better, to continue a path that we believe is what makes the difference, with a simplification of rapid conversion, but also with structural investment. Mrs. Sonia Ramos spoke in Mourão. It's very curious, because Mourão is being funded by the PRR program and it was exactly in this context that... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u293	I know, Mrs. Minister, I know! Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u294	I am glad that the honourable Member recognizes and gives a concrete example of what I have been talking about today. This is what we will continue to do in the 21st century, taking advantage of history, not wasting anyone, not lying below the social and solidarity sector in Portugal. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u295	He did not answer the question why immigrants have priority!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u296	This sector is even important, it is one of the most employers in Portugal and it is with whom it is on the ground that we seek to respond more and better to achieve the construction of a better, fairer for all, with an unprecedented mobilization of resources and a great investment in children. That is what will also transform our country. They're counting on us to continue this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u297	But is it true that immigrants have a priority or not? He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-07-05.u298	The Bureau congratulates the Ministers and the Secretary of State. We thus conclude our agenda. [[Continuation of CH protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when conditions are in place, I will announce the agenda for the next plenary meeting. [[Pause.]] Tomorrow, the plenary session begins as usual at 3 p.m. with the agenda set by the PSD, with joint debate, followed by votes, of the following initiatives: Draft Resolution No.o798/XV/1.a ( PSD ) — Family physician for all; Draft Resolution No 799 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Less waiting for surgeries, consultations and examinations; Draft Resolution No 800 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — More access to continuous and palliative care; Draft Resolution No 801 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — More access to the medicine; Resolution No 802 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the National Health Service ; Bill No. 523 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Free of non-emergency transport of patients ( generally ) ; Resolution Project No 850 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amends Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October defining the composition of medical boards attesting to the incapacity, the circumstances in which the medical certificate of multi-use disability does not depend on its realization and a set of rules related to the date on which it produces effects and its digital display(generally) ; Draft Resolution No 369 / XV / 1. a (CH) — for measures to be definitely implemented for the recognition and protection of persons with fibromyalgia; Resolution No 569 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends the normal functioning of medical emergency vehicles throughout the country; Resolution No. 760 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to pembrolizumab to patients eligible for breast cancer; Resolution No. 807 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening primary health care proximity to populations; Resolution No. 812 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the publication of portals for the sharing of special milk and infant formulae and nutritional supplements for children with food difficulties and specific nutritional needs; Resolution No. 814 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to combat the crisis of the shortage of medicines. I congratulate myself on behalf of the Bureau until tomorrow and thank you very much for your cooperation. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]]
