ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. For the reading of the file, Mrs. Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 108 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Bill No. 929 / XV / 2 also entered. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 930 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 931 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 932 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 934 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, and 935 / XV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission. I shall then refer to Resolution Nos 20 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 21 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ), which fall to 2. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 916 / XV / 2 have also been entered. a ( PS ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 917 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 918 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 919 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 920 / XV / 2. a ( L ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 921 / XV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 922 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 923 / XV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 924 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u3	So let's start our agenda. Let me remind everyone that we shall have a vote at the end of our sitting. The first item on the agenda is the general assessment of the Bill No 102 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Basics of the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area and of the Bills Nos 204 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Basic Law of the National Maritime Policy and Management for the Protection of Public Interest and Environmental Protection (second amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April ), 230 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves a moratorium that prevents mining in deep sea by 2050 and amends Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April and 924 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Amend the Law on the Basics of the National Maritime Policy and Management, which enshrines the promotion of the circular and sustainable blue economy, as well as the promotion of renewable energy and energy autonomy, together with the Resolution Project No 905 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — By fixing a moratorium on deep sea mining under the precautionary principle. To submit Law No 102 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) has the floor Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea, José Maria Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u4	Oh, they did it today! It's about the sea today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u5	Ex. Mr. President, Ex.mas Sr.as and Ex.mos Sr.s. Members: The Government is here today to present the proposed amendment to the law establishing the National Maritime Policy and Management Bases, with the aim of consecrating the marine protected areas classified as an instrument of ordination of the national maritime area, strengthening the powers of autonomous regions in the ordination of the maritime space and adapting the basic law to the new challenges that the governance of the maritime space places in the country. The changes promoted in the proposal for a diploma begin, from the outset, with principles, including unity, adaptive approach, sustainable optimization of compatibility, multilevel governance, integrated approach, public participation, transparency and legal certainty, the enhancement of economic activities and the protection of natural and cultural values. A review of the axiological matrix of maritime planning, management and use of space is made. This review is based on three lines of fundamental force: the need to ensure that the State has the intransferable competence to order the maritime space, as long as it may be inherent in the status of nominality; the legitimacy and advantage of autonomous regions assume second-order responsibilities; and the express strengthening of the importance of the participation of the citizens concerned and of the Public Administration in the planning and management of the maritime area. The objectives of planning and management of the national maritime area are also reviewed, with a view to clarifying what leads to intervention on the national maritime area. It is clear that the maritime space is intrinsically linked to national sovereignty and that Portugal is not a continental country, but rather archipelagic, strengthening the national cohesion and the geo-strategic positioning of Portugal in the Atlantic. In addition, it is sought to state that the sea should be a cultural factor, experience and profit, as well as the development of a blue economy and rational and efficient use of marine resources and ecosystem services, ensuring the best management of compatibility and coexistence of the different uses and activities developed in the national maritime area. Through this diploma, the Government has established a regime for the ordination and management of maritime space in two stages and in compliance with the constitutional case law already laid down on this matter, without compromising the exclusive competence of the State to order the maritime space. In addition to a primary level of ordination committed to the State, which retains the powers inherent in the status of the maritime public domain in its sphere of intervention, without prejudice to the exercise of regional participation and consultation faculties, this proposal creates a second level, which is reflected in the new figure of management plans, allowing flexible administration and the intervention of autonomous regions in the management regulation of the maritime area. With regard to the instruments for the planning of the national maritime area, this proposal incorporates a new organisation of the planning of the maritime space, joining the situation plans and the plans for the allocation of classified marine areas. Sensible ecosystems, where marine protected areas are inserted, should therefore be subject to enhanced protection. With this review, marine protected areas take on the importance of an instrument of planning, ensuring the effectiveness and legal strength necessary for the adaptive management of maritime space planning. Finally, this legislative review is taken advantage of, due to the results of the evaluation of the implementation of the current legal regime, to make adjustments within the legal framework, in particular in the areas of the private use of the national maritime area and the adaptation of procedures to the paradigm of the use of the maritime space of this decade. The objective of national legislation is to improve transparency in the planning process in order to encourage investments and facilitate a balanced approach between relevant sectors and stakeholders. This will be achieved through the implementation of maritime space planning as a mechanism to ensure consistency between environmental, social and economic objectives. We believe that this amendment to the law establishing the bases of the National Maritime Policy and Management, which is intended to be approved, constitutes a concrete measure aimed at developing the sustainable blue economy. We therefore welcome the various opinions that have come to this House, and I would also like to convey our readiness for improvements which, as a result of this debate, are relevant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u6	Mr. Secretary of State has two requests for clarification, to which I assume he answers together. For the first request for clarification, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Antiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the ambitious development of the blue economy will be all the more prosperous, the more healthy the ocean that sustains it. Several international studies on marine systems estimate that, for each euro invested in marine protected areas, a return of at least 3 € will be generated. With nearly 4 million square kilometres of maritime area, Portugal is one of the largest maritime nations worldwide, which expands our responsibility in this area. of the various international commitments undertaken by the Portuguese State, I stress the European Union Biodiversity Strategy, according to which at least 30 % of the land and 30 % of the seas are to be protected by 2030, also considering the commitment to fully protect one third of these areas where no extractive activities may occur. Mr President, marine protected areas are a key tool to address the various threats faced by ecosystems. The update of the previous law allows a new amplitude, in the domain of our ocean, to implement the so-called national network of protected marine areas. In order to achieve such ambitious objectives, it is necessary to gather the best scientific, empirical and socio-economic knowledge, which promotes the creation of a coherent and functional network, which takes into account the positive and negative impacts of activities that depend on these areas and which contemplate management and monitoring plans that allow the achievement of the proposed objectives to be assessed. in this sense, Mr Secretary of State, how can this law promote the consolidation and deepening of the mechanisms of co-management, participation and involvement of the private in the management of these areas? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u8	For a second request for clarification, this time on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u9	Climate change exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u10	Chiu! Well?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with all due respect, I must say that Mr. Secretary of State is perhaps the greatest prophet of the misfortunes of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u13	In August of this year, the Secretary of State said that the Government was adopting amendments to the policy of planning and management of the maritime area and that this proposal was aimed at strengthening the power of autonomous regions in this same order. So far everything is very good, not only because, if we have one of the largest exclusive economic zones, we also owe it to the geographical position of the Azores and Madeira, but also because the Constitutional Court itself in 2014 indicated that there should be a competitive sharing or « a joint exercise[...] of management» and that it would then « the ordinary legislator define the model[... ] for the consultation of the decision-making will of the regional and national bodies ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u15	It happens that this proposal fails in this consultation of wills and, above all, empties the powers of the autonomous regions, equipping them with municipalities or any other kind of maritime associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u16	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u17	What this proposal says is that autonomous regions may draw up the instruments for the planning of the maritime area, but this own-initiative power always lacks the approval of the Government of the Republic. However, this brings obvious risks and clear challenges to the principle of autonomy, and I am not alone in saying this, as the Socialist Party's Group on the Azores also says — perhaps that is why Mr Francisco César is masked and has not slapped his intervention. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u19	According to this parliamentary group, this proposal is not only temporary, as "autonomous regions have the right to exercise ordination powers" and "the powers of the Portuguese State are exercised within the framework of shared management" — a management which this proposal does not include. So what I wanted to ask, in a very concrete way, is whether the Socialist Party and its government are thus punishing the islands...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u21	... and compromise its autonomy status because the Azorians punished the Socialist Party and put an end to the socialist government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u22	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u23	... or because the Madeirans also gave the socialists one of the worst results ever in the last elections. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u24	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u25	Now answer something that has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u26	The question isn't good either...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u27	Mr President, I am grateful for the comments made. Mr Salvador Antiga, of the PS, of course, the protected marine areas are in fact a concern not only for the European Union, but also for the commitments we have made before the United Nations, and therefore this bill also assumes the commitment to raise the level of ordination in terms of the marine protected areas. What is intended with these marine protected areas is to establish the principles and the framework of values of an environmental nature, and even of a cultural nature, and there may be, and therefore, we also later have here a set of management and monitoring plans, which will be the subject of development and improvement within the framework of supplementary legislation, in particular Decree-Law No 38 / 2015. I would also like to note that, in these management plan processes, and in all areas of management of the marine protected areas, it will depend on each specific area which mechanisms will be, if there will be co-management, if there will be no co-management, whether we will have private participation or not. In any case, protected marine areas are of public interest, so it will be the public interest that will guarantee and give this premise. With regard to Mrs.Merge of the Arrival, Dr. Rita Matias, I would like to say that what I said is exactly what happens. We have developed here a set of strengthened powers for the autonomous regions, in particular by creating a figure, which are the management plans, in which autonomous regions can elaborate this whole process, thus ensuring the participation and also the involvement of the scientific community, of the entire community, in this process. I would also like to say that in the third revision to the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, a question on the public domain of the sea was raised. Now, as you understand, we cannot cross the areas of the specific powers of the Republic, and of this House in particular, with the regional powers that are assigned to the second level of planning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u28	Only four are beating hands! Eurico's missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u29	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u30	Mr. President, there are projects to be presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u31	You're absolutely right. Therefore, I apologize to Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, and I give you, exactly, the word for submitting Bill No. 204 / XV / 1 on behalf of the Left Block. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u32	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The proposal that the Government brings to us today, contrary to its last sentence, Mr Secretary of State, is not in accordance with the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It is very concrete issues that arise from the Government's proposal — the development of non-commercial and pre-commercial projects or product testing, etc. — they are dependent solely on the will of the Government of the Republic, which is a clear obstacle to the sharing of decisions provided for in the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Therefore, your bill goes against what you just told us here and violates the law, which is the commitment of the Government of the Republic to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, incomprehensiblely. Why is this claim provided for in the Political and Administrative Statute? Because it is understood that an action, for example, at the bottom of the Azores Sea, even without commercial purposes, can have very damaging impacts on the wealth that is the Azores Sea, and therefore there is this co-responsibility. What the Government is saying to us is that, in its view, the will of the Autonomous Region of the Azores is neither taken nor found, and this is not only a violation of the Political-Administrative Statute—I believe that the Socialist Party of the Azores will explain it too—as a arrogance of the Government of the Republic towards an autonomous region, which is absolutely incomprehensible, but which is inherent in the same reasoning as the rest of the bill has. The draft law also says: there is the creation of a new type of planning, the management plan, which is given, for its decision, to the regional management entity, the regional government, but then the Government of the Republic may, for example, declare that there are infrastructures of relevant interest to the country, or projects of relevant interest to the country, which excludes these management plans. So what do you do? It creates a very important sort of instrument, it is said that it is fundamental and that this management is delivered to the autonomous region, but then the Government of the Republic can overrun all the protection of the management plan. How? By deciding that there is a project, whatever it is, without justification, without any kind of contradiction, without any possibility of dispute, because the Government of the Republic decides that it is a project of national interest. Well, this is a respect for the autonomy that is not framed in anything that is synonymous with respect, because it is clearly authoritarianism, an abuse of the Government of the Republic in front of the autonomous regions. And that is why, for the Left Block, safeguarding a very fundamental principle, which is that of those who live in autonomous regions, who live in that sea, who have a direct relationship with that sea has to have an important and principal power to be able to determine the destinations of that sea, then there cannot be here a arrogance of the Government, nor in the current Law No. 17 / 2014, which says that it can deliver to the sea-cut privates for 50 years — that is not acceptable — nor in the absence, even, of a continued assessment of the validity of the projects, about the safeguarding of public interest, in respect, which is fundamental to us, of the will of the autonomous regions, in particular, because it is the commercial interest that is most concerned here, of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I therefore end my speech with a very direct question, Mr Secretary of State. The Autonomous Region of the Azores has decided to approve a moratorium on deep mining until 2050, and I ask you: given this decision of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, what will the Government of the Republic do about this? Are you going to accept this moratorium? Or are you going to account for and declare any project of national interest to override what the Azorians and the Azorians decided? I said. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u33	To submit Bill No 230 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and the Resolution Project No 905 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: The proposed law that the Government here brings to us, along with the issues of autonomy, in the NAP's view, has worrying questions concerning environmental matters, in particular the classification of projects of relevant national interest, opening the door to the destruction of the oceans, as is already the case with the Earth's Environmental Simplex, and also leaves out another concern, the consecration of a moratorium on deep sea mining. On what is the largest marine area in Europe, which has the greatest biodiversity, I would like to recall words we heard last year at the UN Conference of Oceans (United Nations ). We then heard last year's commitment to "ensure that 100 % of the maritime area under Portuguese sovereignty or jurisdiction is assessed in good environmental status; and to classify by 2030 30 % of the national marine areas". These are nothing but Mr. Prime Minister's words, António Costa, which still ended: «We will only be able to deal with the greatest challenges of mankind if we assume that the future of human beings and oceans is interconnected. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nice words, but where are these words going in this diploma? Are we going to move from words to acts and legislate in order to protect the oceans, in fact, from threats against them? Or are we going to allow, once again, an avalanche to that which is the destruction of marine biodiversity? The NAP, therefore, today brings a proposal which, like those which it has already presented in the past, aims precisely to guarantee a moratorium up to 2050, thus accompanying the one that has been the challenge of civil society, which we congratulate today, in the people of WWF ( World Wildlife Fund ) and of Sciaena, who have brought a petition signed in this same sense, so that, in fact, until we have a deeper knowledge of the environmental impact that this activity has on the deep sea, we can ensure that we pause our oceans to re-regine. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not with mere words that we retain such an important natural heritage for our own survival. The safeguard of the oceans and biodiversity they receive, more than emotional speeches or expressions of good will, needs action, an action that goes beyond the international commitments undertaken by our country. It remains to be seen whether, at the time of voting, they will be 'watering' or will prevail the precautionary principle. And the sooner we do it, the sooner we give assurances to the younger generations who yearn for a healthy planet to live, that this Parliament is truly committed to defending its environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u35	To submit Bill No. 924 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u36	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u37	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting. under Article 89. the Rules of Procedure, the honourable Member, when using the floor, must address the President and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u38	I welcome the Bureau, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u39	No, Madam Member, you must address the President and the Assembly. That is what Article 89 provides. , paragraph 1, of our Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u40	I welcome Mr President of some Members of this House,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and I welcome you. Members of the Government. « Portugal is sea», so said the maps of the classrooms in the time when I attended school. And these maps realized the reality: it is that 97% of the national territory is sea. With a continental coastline extending over 900 km, which adds to the inland waters and the territorial sea of the autonomous regions, Portugal owns one of the largest exclusive economic areas in Europe and the world. If the sea has always been one of the unmistakable protagonists in the history and identity of Portugal and the Portuguese, unfortunately, the public policies of the 3. the Republic has voted for the sea to forget and give up. From the Navy that gave « new worlds to the world», we went to one of the most neglected marines of all time, with an obsolete fleet and a misuse of human resources, which simply do not have the conditions to do more and better. in the country which, by the end of the 1960s, caught on average more than 300 000 tonnes of fish, we imported this same volume of fish and halved the capacity of our fishing fleet. of the nation that doubled the end of the storms, we went to torment the life of those who live from the sea, feeding their families and our families—yes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our families are also dependent on these people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] A 3. the Republic is synonymous with betrayal of the cultural identity of a nation of sailors, fishermen and navigators, and this proposal of the Arrival aims to correct precisely this, because it is possible to reconcile the potential of production of renewable energies with traditional activities on a weighting of values, without alarming and without demonizing our fishermen. This government, in its megalomanic offshore wind project, approved the construction of it in at least three areas that overlap in conservation areas, neglecting the impacts on marine biodiversity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u42	... but also neglected the Portuguese fishermen, leaving them out of the elaboration of these areas of exploitation of renewable energy. What these fishermen, like those of Viana do Castelo, tell us is that the affected areas correspond to the areas of greater fishing volume and that these parks, wherever they are installed, cause a marine desert. What these fishermen are asking is to establish justice: they ask for areas where the impact is lower. For this reason, the Commission proposes today that the construction of these parks can only take place when the absence of negative impacts on the environment, the economy, fishermen and the local population is ensured,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u44	... because it is possible to think of the planning and management of the national maritime space respecting the principle of autonomy and the interests of the population, promoting a blue and circular economy. « Portugal is sea», we embrace our maritime vocation. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u45	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of the constitutional review under way, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores recently adopted Resolution No 36 / 2023, which aims to clarify the institutional relations between the State and autonomous regions in relation to shared management of the Portuguese sea. This resolution, delivered here in this House, among other measures, proposes an amendment to Article 84. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which deals with the public domain, with the aim of establishing a solid and clear basis for the sharing of competences with regard to our sea. However, the proposed law here under discussion, which amends the Basics of the Policy on the Management and Management of the National Maritime Area, arises at a time when the Liberal Initiative cannot fail to consider it inappropriate, given the implications of the ongoing constitutional review. This proposal, as presented, jeopardizes the careful and deep work of the Possible Commission for the deepening of Autonomy, as well as the contributions of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to the constitutional review. In addition to inappropriate time, the proposal is really wrong. The management of the sea is a vital issue for our nation, and the centralist tendency that this proposal reflects is not beneficial for the whole country, especially for autonomous regions. For example, this bill definitely prevents autonomous regions from implementing the instruments for the sorting of the national maritime space in the maritime areas adjacent to their archipelagos beyond 200 nautical miles. This is when the supervisory powers that currently fall within the scope of the sea have not even been properly met. We therefore leave a call for institutional respect for the work of the autonomous regions and for consideration of the implications of the ongoing constitutional review. As representatives of the Republic, we have a duty to defend the principles of autonomy and collaboration in the management of our sea. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to say that this legislation appears almost like a storm that rises on the high seas and goes to the coast, shaking everything along the way — in particular, the autonomy and the principles of responsible institutional respect and decentralisation. There has always been a tradition of « seas never sailed» in our country, but now that all are already navigable, the government, with this proposal, wants to ensure that no one navigates without being under its control. It is even more a characteristic proposal of this PS government. As far as it depends on the Liberal Initiative, this proposal does not throw iron or rob those who are the rights of autonomy. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u47	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u48	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The management and planning of the maritime space is a subject of the greatest strategic importance for Portugal, given the vastness and wealth of its coastal and oceanic areas, on which we have rights, but we also exercise responsibilities. The proposed law has the merit of revising Law No. 17 / 2014. However, the amendments introduced are insufficient, in addition to undermining and diminishing the role of national sovereignty as a whole and even that of autonomous regions. Portugal has undertaken to classify 30 % of the maritime area under national jurisdiction by 2030, which is fundamental to protecting biodiversity, marine ecosystems, ocean funds, where we have hydrothermal fields and other truly incredible geological structures. This natural wealth must mobilize us all, in the sense of its effective protection. It is not enough to classify; it is necessary to manage effectively. This implies more coordination, more research, more supervision and more resources, given its importance. The existence of management plans is essential, but this instrument is not enough to ensure a more effective and coherent coverage, far from the Council of Ministers resolution approving guidelines for the implementation of a national network of protected marine areas. In addition to geographical and biophysical dispersion by four subdivisions — continent, Azores, Madeira and extended continental shelf — there are different types of classification, there is dispersion and even overlap of competences by multiple entities, including the governments of the autonomous regions. We need to strengthen coordination between entities so that protected marine areas are managed on a network. Otherwise, it will always survive the usual, fragmentary, disarticulate logic and, up to now, absolutely ineffective. This amendment ignores this dimension, as it ignores the position of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, not recognizing the constitutional competence they have to bind, decide, manage, these marine areas, instead imposing a logic of joint exercise and true cooperation and co-management. The autonomous regions may draw up the sorting instruments under Article 8. the, but then they cannot approve them, must be the Government of the Republic. Does that make any sense? Both regional governments, such as the Regional Legislative Assemblys of the Azores and Madeira, have unanimously expressed an unfavourable opinion against this initiative of the Government. These opinions against, unanimously, do they not count for anything, do they not make anyone think or change anything? This is a real institutional disrespect and a turning back to the voices of the country. Our sea is one of the greatest riches of Portugal and cannot be treated in this way levana, authoritarian and negligent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u49	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u50	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : To speak by sea is to speak of Portugal and, as we have seen, to speak of Madeira and the Azores, because 86 % of Portugal's exclusive economic zone is in these regions and because 89 % of Madeira's sea has protection status. In 2022, Madeira created the largest marine reserve of the North Atlantic, around the Selvagens Islands, a protected area of Portugal since 1971. The PSD, in the Madeira Regional Government, has developed successful policies in order to ensure a balanced relationship between sustainability and income. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u51	The PSD therefore does not accept that, in order to answer a question raised by the Constitutional Court, the PS will now, by proposal of law, reduce the role of autonomous regions to a mere consulting body. With one step of these, the PS is grossly disrespecting autonomy and abandoning the commitments and balances that have worked for many decades, and well. And we're not alone. As the late President of the Constitutional Court says, « I do not question that the ownership of the maritime public domain belongs to the State [... ]. But I no longer disagree why it will be contrary to the Basic Law to transfer of operating or management powers on the same domain to the autonomous regions, being assured... »— and frisous! — «... State control ». The PSD presented a proposal for a constitutional review, which has already been mentioned here, and what did the Socialist Party do in this matter? At the place of constitutional review, nothing. With this bill, the PS compacts with the total imbalance between the central state and the interests of the autonomous regions and feeds the thesis of autonomy without content, which is unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that none of the PS Members elected by the islands face this issue and are here in front of this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u52	Caesar, it was for you to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u53	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u54	Great assortment! Açorian of gem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The first word is even to say that any Portuguese of good, in its essence, is Azorian and Madeiran of heart. This separation makes no sense in the discussion they want to make here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, that, in its exact terms, the initial paragraph, whole and clean, of the proposal we are discussing here: "The planning and management of the national maritime area are essential for the strengthening of the oceanic culture and for the development of the blue economy. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is, dear Colleagues, a design that is shared by everyone, throughout this House. It is also a law whose need for revision is recognized by all — even now, in the intervention of the PSD, it has been recognized. If the need for legislative evolution in this area is insufficient in multiple plans, whether of an environmental, economic and social dimension, the illustrated premise of concern, for example, with the deepening of a national network of protected maritime areas was cited by everyone. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't want to sow division where we can have unity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u56	Talk to Caesar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u57	In this regard, it is essential that we recall the legacy of a nation that has been associated with the sea for over 900 years. We are the people who have always known to see in the sea a unifying friend and never an enemy divider. We are a people who have learned from the sea to extract more profits than torments, and that it is not the battle of the political or partisan struggle to put this legacy at stake. Mrs. Members, for all this, and because the sea always faces adversity before goodness, it is essential to reiterate that, for the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, the evolution of this legislative framework is necessarily based on the continuation of the appreciation of shared management and codecision of management of maritime space and sea with the Autonomous Regions of Azores and Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a premise whose guarantee of application—in particular with regard to the relevant precautions concerning the private use of the maritime space—can be provided to all Portuguese citizens, through the immense legacy that, better than anyone else, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proudly corporately and that the 120 Members of this House interpret every day of the appreciation of our autonomy as a democratic construction.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u58	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u59	This is, in fact, a principle of action with which the PS always fought the nefarious and former dominant centralist pendant in the old regime, which tended to view regional autonomy as a kind of bitter remedy. Not for us. Our commitment to defending the virtuous Portuguese autonomic model is indelible, non-negotiable and defining our dialogues and options.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u60	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u61	Mr President, the amendments to the Basic Law on the Policy of the National Maritime Area have been and will continue to be discussed by the Assembly of the Republic with constitutional accuracy, respect for the autonomous dimension and safeguard the integrity and sovereignty of the State. The PS will continue its course in an active but dialogueal manner, so that the final drafting of this law puts the essential: a sea of opportunities, union and economic, social and environmental progression. I conclude by saying that we hope that, in a future constitutional review dedicated to the subject of autonomy, these and other autonomous competences can gain better clarity and content. For now, we will continue to fight and govern for people, strengthen our autonomy and build a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u62	The Madeirans have already given the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u63	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : over the years, during the debate that has been taking place on the management and planning of the maritime area, the CFP has repeatedly stated that the planning and planning of the national maritime area are fundamental to the economic development of the country as a whole, and must meet the needs of the country, not only in view of the use of our resources, but also in full respect for the environment and biodiversity of the sea and its ecosystems, ensuring the enjoyment of the current and future wealth of those resources, in the defence of the public interest, of the national interest. The Secretary of State, in his speech, referred to the indissociable character of the national maritime area vis-à-vis the country's own sovereignty. And you're absolutely right. However, in dealing with this precisely the indissociable, strategic consideration of this whole importance to our sovereignty, the problem is in the political option embodied in the law since the majority of the PSD / CDS and that the PS Government, by the way, wants to maintain, in order to deliver strategic control of the shares of this sovereignty to the interests of the economic power, with such concessions and such titles of private use of the maritime space. That is, in practice, the privatization of the sea, in this particular case, of the use of its resources. We have also come to warn and remind ourselves that, in terms of economic and productive activities linked to the sea, we have no doubt that incompatibilities are easily achieved and that the damage results, most often, for those who have been there for a long time, as is the case for fishermen. Fishing resisted when the governments turned their backs on the sea, but now there are those who understand that fishing is even more. Fishing needs to be valued and supported, not to be despised, abused and even expelled from the sea, as we have been watching. There is a central aspect of this proposal and of this legislative process, which is the competence of the autonomous regions and, in particular, the need to find a suitable solution to the problem which has been created for years in this field and which has reached a Constitutional Court judgment, which was pronounced by the unconstitutionality of substantial rules of Law No 1 / 2021 on this matter. We believe that the Assembly of the Republic, with this legislative process, is faced with the opportunity and responsibility to correct serious errors that have been committed, reverse ruinous political options for the national interest and also prevent and avoid new and more serious errors in this matter. We reaffirm that the CFP understands regional autonomy as a democratic power capable of dealing with the specificities of the autonomous regions, as a means of promoting development, as a means of reducing asymmetries and ensuring equal living conditions in the national context, as a structural power that requires a high sense of responsibility. The CFP will contribute actively in this process, expressing its concern at the structural aspects of the political options that are translated into either the maintenance of substantial aspects of the law that is in force or even its deepening in relation to this matter. There we will be, during this process, until its end, to take a constructive but combative position in defense of the real national interest in this matter, so that this sale will end to the parcels and parts of our sea. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u65	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u66	Mr. President, Dear colleagues and members of the Government : Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea said a truth, said that Portugal, more than a continental country, is an architectural country. It is the difference in the population dimension between the continental part of our country and the two archipelagos that sometimes make us not see this reality. from the point of view of territorial expansion, from projection to the rest of the world, is exactly the opposite. If we look at the exclusive economic zones, the 200 miles around the Azores means three times the area of the 200 miles that the continent has, with Madeira twice the area of the continent. Therefore, the exclusive economic zone of Portugal has, in its large majority, to deal with the areas adjacent to the archipelagos. It is very important, therefore, when we want to value all this wealth, that this is done with the islands, with the populations of the islands, with the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, and to distance us from a centralist view that Lisbon decides everything. But I think that this principle of subsidiarity should have a dynamic interpretation, and that is what we want to bring to the discussion on the subject, and I say it very quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u67	You don't have time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u68	When it's to protect, there's a minimum threshold, and whoever wants to go further, goes further. In other words, in defining a protected area, if the autonomous region wants to go further than the Government of the Republic should be able to go further; but when it is to prevent extraction, pollution, we understand that there must be a kind of double veto, i.e. that nothing can be done without the autonomous region or that nothing can be done without the central State. This is our desire, our interpretation, and that is what we want to lead to this debate for the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u69	You could have talked more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u70	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Sea, José Maria Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u71	I would like to thank the questions raised here and tell Mr. Paulo Moniz that what he said is very important. We agree that it is not enough to classify, it is necessary to manage. That is why in this legislation we identify the areas of planning, planning, situation plans, allocation plans and raise the marine areas classified precisely in this sense, but we create a new figure, the figure of management plans, which is precisely that of the involvement of communities, of proximity, that they may also be the autonomous regions partners in this process, in all this development. And this is, in fact, the great novelty of this legislation. I would like to tell Mr Pedro Filipe Soares that, with regard to what he referred to in the special areas of activity, what is expected is no change: it is either provided for in the situation plans, or, then, if there is a need to identify a special area of activity—for example, to test new equipment, for there is a test area, for example, of drones or any other activity—if this is not foreseen in the situation plan, it must even create an allocation plan and it has a component, as is in Decree-Law No 38/2015, which is the constitution of an advisory committee, the existence of a transparent process of participation, a public hearing, a report, a strategic environmental assessment. There is therefore a whole involvement that can and should be done by the autonomous regions, and therefore no situation is being created, let us say, by exception. I would also like to give the Member of the NAP a word on the question of the moratorium. This is an important process, as you know. We did not want to create difficulties for the one who is a serious work of several years, which is being done within the framework of the UNCCD (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea) and also in the ISA (International Seabed Authority), for the one who is a code of mining that protects all mankind as far as the processes are concerned. In view of the difficulties that have occurred, the Portuguese official position — and that we are available to work in the field of specialty — is that there is a precautionary pause, that is, we need to have more evaluation, we need to have more knowledge in order to be able to decide. This was the position which Portugal has taken — which is a position, I think, correct, that is to say, not to prejudice the negotiations and this work being done many years ago, by many entities, including Portuguese, scientific entities, of the various governmental areas, of NGOs (non-governmental organisations), but we have created a precautionary pause so that, while we do not have the best conditions of impact and scientific knowledge, we do not make any progress on this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u72	We now move on to point 2 of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 95 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal regime relating to the qualification and training of motor vehicle inspectors. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Frederico Francisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Control of technical conditions for the movement of vehicles is a national and Community imperative with a view to improving the conditions for the movement of vehicles, through regular verification of their characteristics and safety conditions, with particular importance for safeguarding the public good, which is road safety. The inspection profession of the vehicle inspection centres is central in this activity, exercising a function that requires specific technical knowledge of the vehicles and their components, but also a position of exemption, rigor and independence. The experience gained with the current regime and the technical developments that occurred in the automobile technology itself in recent years has made the reformulation and updating of the inspector certification regime, with the revision of the qualifications and training of these professionals, as well as certification of the entities and trainers. As regards the conditions for access to the profession of technical inspection of vehicles, its improvement and simplification is made, for example, by determining that there are only two types of inspection licenses, compared to the four currently existing ones. On the other hand, the frequency, with use, of initial qualification actions and the frequency of specific training actions for the breakdown of new categories of vehicles, trainings that are now in line with the National Qualifications System is required. thus, it is the technical and pedagogical follow-up of training actions to the IMT (Instituto da Mobility e Do Transportes, I.P. ) , its conclusion is proven by a qualification certificate that integrates the National Qualifications Catalogue, something that has not so far occurred. It should be noted that this legislative initiative is a necessary condition, as an enabling standard, for the realization of the obligation of periodic inspections to motorcycles, tricycles and quadricycles equipped with motor the combustion of cylinders greater than 125 cm3, which is scheduled for the beginning of January 2024 and resulting from the transposition of a Community directive with which Portugal was already late. There is also a review of the requirements for the certification of inspector-training entities and, in addition, there is recognition of the training bodies from other Member States of the European Union ( EU ) or the European Economic Area, setting out the requirements to be observed by candidates to inspectors who are citizens of other EU Member States or third countries resident in national territory. in this legislative initiative, the government has also established assumptions of suitability for access and for the exercise of the technical inspection activity of vehicles, which aim to give greater credibility and transparency to the sector, always for the benefit of road safety, which is subject to the procedures for controlling the technical conditions of vehicles. At the same time, the exemption and technical independence of the inspectors is reinforced, imputing to the managing entity of the technical inspection centres of vehicles the counter-ordinations resulting from the verification of conflicts of interest or incompatibilities or the conclusion of agreements whereby the remuneration or any performance of the inspectors is dependent on the result obtained in the inspections. The applicable penalty scheme also affects inspectors who do not comply with the rules of the profession, providing for ancillary penalties to prohibit the exercise of the activity or suspension of the inspector's licence, depending on the circumstances in particular. Administrative measures which, depending on the seriousness of non-compliance, may be applied to the training institutions, ranging from the written warning to the revocation of their certification with the termination of their certificate. Finally, the rights acquired by the inspector licence professionals obtained under the obligation of the legislation prior to this decree of law are safeguarded, providing for a transitional period for the formation of currently recognised training entities. thus, and with this proposal, on the one hand, we seek to update the qualification and training actions of inspectors who perform the technical inspection activity of vehicles and, on the other hand, and not less important, to give greater quality, transparency and confidence to a sector that is of great importance to the improvement of the technical conditions of traffic and, ultimately, of road safety. thus, the Government submits this bill to the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, the Minister and also the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the Bureau, Mr Secretary of State, the Minister, who has just gone away, but there are also the compliments — the ladies and gentlemen and the ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this legislative authorization, the Government intends to obtain the consent of the Assembly to legislate on the legal regime relating to the qualification and training of motor vehicle inspectors, and this legal regime was still revised at the beginning of the current year, through Decree-Law No 4 -A / 2023 of 16 January. Despite this temporary space between the legislation and this legislative authorization, the PSD, like the sector, looks forward to this amendment, in particular with a view to having a single diploma covering the whole reality of this sector of inspection, both the question of inspectors and the technical issues of vehicles. So let us see in this principle of codification, not in this degree, but in general, this has happened. I would like to remind you, perhaps, that transport policy is one of the common policies of the European Union and that it is contained in the Treaties, in particular the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in its Article 91. the, which Portugal has been implementing over the years with the transposition of these Directives, in particular on the technical status of vehicles, by Directive 2014 / 45 / EU on periodic technical inspection, Directive 2014 / 47 / EU on technical inspection on commercial vehicle roads, and Directive 2014 / 46 / EU on vehicle registration documents. The same is true of the inspection certification regime by Law Decree No 144 / 2017 of 29 November 2017, in which it specifically states that Member States should ensure that technical inspections are carried out by inspectors who meet the minimum qualifications and training requirements, and Member States may establish additional requirements for competences and corresponding training. All these directives have been transposed, however, as the Government says — and in this particular, we must not fail to agree — this regime is over 20 years old and there have been a number of changes, particularly in terms of transport mobility and technical characteristics of vehicles, which have been happening over the years and which are expected to continue to happen in the near future, even because of the European agendas, which requires a real revision. However, there are some concerns here that we must not fail to put, particularly on the issue of dual licenses, because in comparative law — and this also comes from the technical notes — this regime does not appear in any other European country, at least in accordance with what we have been seeing, and there is only one type of licence for the inspectors, and we want different licences. It was important to realize technical support, even because the government, once again, contrary to its obligation, did not send us the technical opinions on which it was based and therefore it was essential for us to have this knowledge to better perceive this decision, which does not happen in other countries on this matter. As far as incompatibilities and impediments are concerned, they obviously come from European legislation. I would also like to draw attention to what, in the public statement on this matter, the associations referred to some issues that need to be pointed out, changed and changed so that the law is simpler, correcter and easier to apply in a single and understandable regime. Therefore, the PSD has a constructive position in this matter and here it will be later, in the seat of specialty and listening to all people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u76	Specialty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u77	...to be able to share positions in order to have a good legal degree. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u78	Mr José Pedro Ferreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Directive 2014 / 45 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 3 April came to define the guidelines for regular technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers. This directive was transposed into Portuguese legislation by Decree-Law No 144 / 2017 of 29 November 2017, which established minimum qualifications and training requirements for inspectors carrying out these technical inspections. However, this decree did not introduce any amendments to the certification structure or type of inspectors, which have remained unchanged for about 20 years at the time of the publication of Decree-Law No 258/2003. Thus, and following the recommendation made by the Socialist Party bench in March 2023, the Government considers that in view of the technical developments in recent years, it is necessary to review and update the certification regime of professionals carrying out technical vehicle inspections, repealing Decree-Law No 258/2003 and consolidating a single diploma — Bill No 95 / XV / 1. (a) the system of certification of inspectors to motor vehicles and their trailers, giving them greater suitability, transparency and safety. The good state of operation of the cars and the safety of its users are key factors in reducing the risk of incidents due to mechanical failure and thus road sinequality and the number of deaths on roads. This is a government concern at a period when, for example, the number of fatalities involving motorcycles increased exponentially in recent years: 28, 9 % of deaths in 2021 involved motorcycles; and 2021 to 2022, the number of fatalities with motorcycles doubled, with an increase of occurrences directly caused by mechanical failures. Because road safety and the proper maintenance and operation status of circulating vehicles are priority, the approval by the Assembly of the Republic of this bill will enable the Government to legislate in order to strengthen the operational conditions which will enable, inter alia, the entry into force, on 1 January, of the already mentioned transposition of the Community Directive which points to the obligation to carry out periodic compulsory inspection on motorcycles with a cylinder capacity of 125 cm3 or more. consulted the associations representing the sector, the Proposal for a Law No 95 / XV / 1. the, submitted by the Government and under discussion, has introduced significant legislative changes, including in the clear definition of the system of access, exercise and termination of this professional activity, in the establishment of the legal regime relating to the qualification and training of inspectors - by passing this qualification to integrate the National Qualifications System - and, moreover, in the reduction and simplification of the types of licences, ranging from four to two. The bill also seeks to respond to the need to strengthen the suitability and transparency in the exercise of this activity, through the establishment of the assumptions of fitnessversus lack of suitability for access to the profession, considering as a lack of suitability the effective condemnation by the practice of crimes of falsification of documents, active and passive corruption or speculation. It also seeks to define the main incompatibilities in the performance of the technical inspection activity of vehicles, preventing the inspector from being the owner, partner, manager or administrator of inspection centres; owner, partner, manager, manager or worker of transport companies or from manufacturing, import, marketing or repair of motor vehicles and their trailers as well as their equipment; and, finally, responsible for the inspection of vehicles of which he is the owner, tenant or user. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because road safety and the periodic inspection activity of vehicles is essential to save lives, because the consolidation of the professional career of technical inspection of vehicles must be updated in the face of new challenges and their social and economic relevance and because ethics and transparency are fundamental in this professional activity, the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench supports the government's legislative initiative in view of the relevant impact on individual and collective security and therefore for the well-being and quality of life of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u80	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has come forward with a proposal for a legislative authorization law to legislate on the legal regime relating to the qualification and training of motor vehicle inspectors. Some reinforcements and understandings of the Liberal Initiative on this subject, that there are basic principles when the State establishes rules on access to a profession or activity: disproportionate barriers to access should not be established; the rates, emoluments and other necessary payments should not set up an economic obstacle to free choice of profession and activity; and training procedures should not be excessively delayed— and we use to refer to the subject mentioned above in the training catalogue, which also needed to be agile and accelerated. What is the use of an initial brutal requirement if, after legislation, the State does not monitor? It is also important to talk about the huge barriers to entry, because there are several examples of industry associations complaining about the failure to monitor these issues. With regard to this specific authorisation, the Government is starting badly. contrary to the provisions of Decree-Law No 274 / 2009, which regulates the elaboration and instruction of acts and diplomas subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers or of members of the Government, does not make the Government exposition of reasons nor the hearing or holding of public consultations. It has already been said that it does not bring together studies, documents or opinions which have substantiated the submission of the bill, which is particularly relevant because, according to the technical note, there are too many complexities and bureaucracies that are raised in this case and which lack concern—in particular for the Liberal Initiative, because the process of deburocratization and simplification is, as you know, our concern. This is not a mere technicality and it is up to us not to give blank checks to the government. We shall compare with the case of a citizen who travels to some public division with an application for improperly substantiated authorization and in which the reply of the State is, of course, an outright rejection of his claim. So it is obvious that there is a manifest inequality here. Finally, let us remember that the certification structure and the type of inspectors have remained unchanged for about 20 years — 20 years! — despite technical developments, of course, taking place in the meantime. If, on the one hand, this is another place where the time of governance is slow, there was no time to deliver the process in condition. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u82	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u83	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Looking at this bill, the first association I make is that the PS has come to ask, in particular, for professional orders, that fewer requirements are required each time, that is a direct transfer, not respecting orders. The requirement now put, with the transposition of this directive to motor vehicle inspectors, is completely surreal in relation to the requirements they make, for example, for admission in certain professional orders. But let's go somewhere. This law has not been amended for 20 years, which is even in the explanatory statement submitted by the Government. However, as good students of the European Union, it is enough to go to the National Road Safety Authority website to realize that, at some point, there is a small icon that says: ‘People are wrong’ — and just look at the results of the elections to see how they are wrong! We then clearly realized that people are wrong, but, speaking of road safety, it is said on the site that this is integrated into a principle of "zero vision", of zero deaths on the roads. But when we looked at the idea of zero deaths on the roads, we could go further, because this legislation could be applied to developed countries. In Portugal, according to the ACP ( Automobile Club de Portugal ), the average age of vehicles in 1995 was 6, 1 years ; in 2000, 7, 2 years ; in 2017, 12, 6 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u85	And if you haven't noticed yet, this is due to the fact that you have a very high car tax and the Portuguese are unable to renew their car fleet. So we see the sharks and the shells walking along the road and, necessarily, they have to go to the periodic inspection center, constantly, to do the reviews. The first concern about car quality and car quality — or the cars, as they want to call them — would be precisely the renewal of the car fleet. But that is not what the government is dealing with, because we continue with a car tax which is the highest in Europe. But we continue to see the responsibility of the State in zero slotty when we look at reports that the number of accidents has increased on national roads, particularly on national road No 2, on national road No 109 and on national road No 125, largely as a result of the lack of investment on secondary roads.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u86	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u87	Because, nevertheless, you increase the tolls and force the population to go in the secondary ways, which have no works or lighting because of the lack of investment of this government. So when we start thinking about zero sinality, the Socialist Party's policy — as a good student! — it is to transpose the rules of the European Directive and ensure that it will penalise, once again, and seek the training of private persons, who are even more expensive. This, not ensuring that the victims of your system, who are the Portuguese, can be eased in all this situation. instead of, as Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto says, they put this jurassic park of scattered radars all over the place, which we liked to see, in particular with regard to measures for zero fallacy, it was to ensure that the cars had quality. To that end, policies are needed to encourage the renewal of the fleet, which you do not do. Therefore, the Portuguese continue to pay taxes and you continue to penalise all those who want to circulate, because today, having a new car in Portugal is a luxury: the tolls continue to be very expensive; the ISP (tax on oil and energy products), to circulate with a car, continues to be very high; the car tax is from the highest in Europe and, compared to the wages that the Portuguese receive, is completely ridiculous! So, yes, it is important to have the supervision and inspection of cars made with quality and safety assurance for all, but for this it is also important that the roads, forms of mobility and cars of the fleet in Portugal have the minimum dignity, and you continue to prevent the Portuguese from having quality of life! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u88	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : I would like to make an intervention on the subject that we are discussing, from the technical inspection centres of vehicles, the inspectors who work there and those who must and can exercise this profession in our country. The first idea I would like to stress is that, in the matter of periodic technical inspection of vehicles under the competence of the State, a public service which is delegated to companies of different types, from north to south of the country, we are before a public service of the highest responsibility and which can never be done without people. This seems like a truth of La Palisse, but it is good not to forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u90	You wanted to talk about the directive, but you don't know anything about what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u91	When we talk about something that is a little more than administrative transposition of directives, the first question that I think would be important for the government to clarify is this: what dialogue did you have with the workers in the sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u93	Because it is precisely the condition of the exercise of this profession that we are dealing with, and when it comes to vehicle inspection, it is important not to forget that they are done by workers, often subject by employers to high working rates; and that often the work they do for road safety may be compromised by the threat to their rights, which results even from assumed production objectives, average inspection times and other factors that may compromise the work of inspectors. No longer to speak of the exemption itself and of the ramifications and consequences which can be withdrawn from it. When we talk about this and we find that on the part of the Government there was a total lack of concern to hear the workers and their representative organisations in this area, it is with concern that we have verified a legislative authorization in this House in which, from the outset, the Government will continue with the law decree it wishes to make. This would, on the contrary, require another approach that would ensure the creation of specific legislation to ensure the social and labour rights of these workers; ensure respect for free collective bargaining through trade union organisations; reduce working hours, seeking to create better conditions for workers; and the need for professional valorization and careers, even as a way to ensure such independence from those who are taking on these roles in inspection centres. Of course, if we defend it for all, we also defend for the inspectors the general increase in wages and the guarantee of decent wages, even creating a career regulation. Finally, Madam President, underlining that road safety cannot be a business like anyone else, at least an excuse, a pretext or an opportunity for the exploitation of workers and for the maximum profit of private interests, to which the State has delegated a competence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u94	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u95	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : in legislation on the legal regime for the qualification and training of motor vehicle inspectors, the Government wants — that is the objective with which it advances with this legislative authorization — to update the certification and typology of inspectors, based on the technical developments that have been recorded in recent years, because, as has already been said, 20 years ago, there has not been an update of this legal regime. This is supposed to contribute to road safety and, also through this legal regime and these rules, to zero mortality. Unify the various diplomas that give effect to this legal regime on the competences, training, certification and duties of inspectors has no problem in itself, it is even positive. The question is how it is done, and again the government does a process in which hearings, public hearings, public participation of people directly concerned and their organisations are completely damaged. The national association of motor inspection technicians wrote, in its opinion, that it received the document on 18 July, having to give its opinion until 20 July, two days later! And we know how the government has been speeding up proceedings, and we are now faced with this issue of professional orders and we have received a communication from the Minister, also here, to Parliament. I mean, if there is no time for the organisations themselves to take action and for a process to be minimally involved, of course the diplomas will suffer the consequences of this lack of participation. Still, the National Association of Vehicle Inspection Techniques makes several suggestions on the diploma, which Mr. Secretary of State has had the opportunity to read because they are public and are also on the Parliament website. With regard to mechanisms for strengthening the independence of inspectors in the face of logic and business pressure, as has been said, we are basically talking about a skill that has been outsourced to private entities and, therefore, if there are inspections carried out in a hurry—if there is pressure for inspections carried out in a hurry, with productivity objectives—which are eased, of course, questions the quality and independence of the inspectors' work. Suggestions were made regarding the non monopolistic concentration of the entities responsible for the inspection and greater supervision of the Mobility and Transport Institute through the control and registration of access to the monitoring software. Once again, we are talking about an externalisation by the State of a service which is the responsibility of the State and which, if subject to a pure market logic or to a marked market logic, is more vulnerable to fraud, trafficking in influence, smoothing and lack of quality of the service that is provided. And in this case, it is very important, because we are talking about transport monitoring. Proposals have been made for the strengthening of independence and also for the regulation — greater regulation, more stringent, with more rights — of career and the socio-work conditions of inspectors. Even because — as has already been said, in the previous intervention by the CFP — they are a condition of the quality and independence of the service that is provided. In short, Mr Secretary of State, there are many aspects of this process that should be corrected in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u97	I will finish, Madam President. What we hope is that these contributions, precisely, can still be the target of weighting, reflection and integration into the final version of this diploma. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u98	As there are no more entries to intervene, we will move on to the conclusion of the debate. To that end, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Frederico Francisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I left only two notes. In fact, what is at stake is a legislative authorization. Therefore, the Government will legislate following this legislative authorization and then, within the legislative procedure of the Government, the hearings we will have to make — either to the associations of the sector or to the organisations representing the workers — will of course be made. In addition, this bill is part of a broader package which is reviewing the regime governing vehicle inspections and, in the framework of this work, both the associations of the sector and the organisations representing the workers have been heard and will continue to be heard. These contributions are, of course, always taken into account and accepted. A question was raised about the fact that there are two types of licences and, in fact, there is a simplification vis-à-vis the four types that existed before. The fact that there are two types basically means that the training given for one type and another is separate. To have only one type we would have to give the same training to all, but this does not prevent this further simplification being done. Finally, I would comment on Mr Bruno Nunes, who presented a vision of quality of life that consists of having a new car, with low costs, cheap tolls and cheap gasoline, which does not correspond to our vision of quality of life and we do not see as the way to ensure road safety.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u100	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u101	We are investing in road infrastructure,... [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u102	Quality of life is walking in public transport!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u103	... and most of the investments we are making in the road network are precisely focused on road safety and on solving road safety problems, as well as resolving other small issues. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] The time to build large highways has passed, but the truth is that it has also made a great contribution to improving our road safety indicators. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Claudia André and CH Member Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u104	We therefore conclude point two and I take advantage of this for the Bureau to say goodbye to the Minister and to the Secretary of State. We move on to point three of the agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos. 849 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes a smartphone-free school at the first levels of education, amending Law No 51 / 2012 of 5 September and 921 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Affirms schools as a safe space free of all forms of discrimination and promotion of the healthy use of technologies, amending Law No 51 / 2012 of 5 September and Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April, together with Resolution Projects No 896 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and mobilising actions of the educational community regarding the use of technological devices in school context and 912 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Value recreations, promote their pedagogical, playful and social role. To present the Bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for creating the conditions for Mrs Joana Mortágua to be able to make her speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It brings us here today a concern that has generated great public debate and that is the effect of the excessive use of screens in children and young people, which is growing in Portugal and worldwide. One of the most recent studies by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) draws attention to this problem and to the need to create clear rules on the use of screens and mobile phones in school spaces. We can only certainly know the consequences on the learning and health of children of the excessive use of mobile phones within a few years, but this advises us to make use of the precautionary principle. What do we already know, with some security? We know that, for all people, and not only for children, the excessive use of screen time is associated with the problematic use of social networks and other negative consequences of smartphone use. We know that, for children, this issue has even more serious contours, which increases the responsibility of the State and the public school. We know that the most recent studies point to a strong association between the time of use of tablets and smartphones and irritability, frustration, mood disturbances and depression. We know it increases the probability of excessive use of video games and anxiety. What do we know, for sure? We know, of course, that the time that children spend on their mobile is less time running, playing, getting to know each other, playing football, playing basketball, playing any other sport. It was this concern that led 20 000 people to sign the petition « Living the school recreation, without smartphone screens! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The petitioners propose to restrict the use of mobile phones in schools for the socialization of children in recreation, so that children socialize, converse face to face and play, and in order to reduce cases of cyberbullying and contact with inappropriate content for their age. This is not a new issue. There are countries and even schools in this country, Portugal, which have already restricted the use of mobile phones, particularly in recreation, and where these negative consequences — such as cyberbullying, remoteness of children and isolation — have given rise to positive consequences: there are school directors who tell us that there is a greater flow to the library; there are children who say that they feel they are now allowed to play; there are children who report that they have been better off in football because they no longer spend their leisure talking to the phone. There are other countries that have adopted many models of mobile phone restrictions in school space. Our proposal in the Block on the Left is not a prohibitionist—it does not move us from prohibitionism— nor does it refer to the use of the phone as a teaching tool within the classroom. Our proposal has to do with the use of mobile phones and other technological devices in recreation for children in 1. o is 2. the cycles, i.e., children with earlier ages, in which it is evident that the excessive use of mobile phones has negative consequences in their socialization process and in the development of a set of intellectual, emotional and social competences. Therefore, what we want is, as the petition asks, to extend to the interval moments of students of 1. o is 2. the cycles the restrictions that already exist at school; to promote the regulation of the uses of technological equipment within the internal regulation, it is therefore mandatory to listen to associations of parents, associations of educational officers and students; and to produce guidelines for the healthy use of technologies in schools, differentiated by age groups, in the manner in which, however, the Minister of Education has already stated that it would do so. We also want this discussion to be accompanied by a definition of the policy of teaching materials — there, in the classroom — based on the most advanced knowledge on the exposure of children and young people to screens. Finally, I would like to greet the petitioners, who brought us this very important discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u106	To submit Bill No. 921 / XV / 2. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u107	Madam President: I begin not only by welcoming the petitioners, but also the Bloc, by having scheduled this issue. In fact, in recreation, football games, among many other activities, have stayed behind to the detriment of new technologies, either with Minecraft or TikTok Challenge. The dependence on mobile phones, as well as on social networks or video games, being a growing problem, affects today 6 of every 10 young people, who spend, on average, four or more hours per day online. This new reality also brought with it a greater incidence of cyberbullying, which, according to what the same studies tell us, is already more frequent than bullying face to face. In order to combat this problem in a positive way, the NAP today brings an initiative that proposes the creation of the figure of 'technology-free areas', i.e. without entering a banist path, we aim to focus on the educational role of schools in recreation, and from the next school year onwards, all schools have a plan of good co-existence in the educational community. This reality already happens in Spain, where there is an annual plan of activities of each school that has to provide for ludic-formative activities that promote not only the healthy use of technological equipment, healthy lifestyles and the coexistence between elements of the educational community, as well as such important themes as gender equality, non-discrimination and the prevention of any type of bullying or gender violence. But in this debate, we understand that we can and should go further, also promoting a revision of the Student Statute, which is manifestly inadequate to the evolution of the times. It is that, contrary to what some Members defend in this House, the Statute of the Student does not protect students from discrimination, whether based on the territory, origin, citizenship, harassment, offenses to physical integrity, among so many other issues that, in our view, must deserve zero tolerance to xenophobic, discriminatory, violent behaviors. Therefore, we propose the inclusion of the right to non-discrimination, because of all these characteristics and behaviours that attack the dignity of any element of the educational community, and punishment of harassment in the Student Statute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u108	What about the tourdas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u109	To present the Resolution Project No. 896 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and mobilising actions of the educational community regarding the use of technological devices in the school context, the address of Mrs Catarina Lobo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a set of initiatives from the Left Block, the PAN, the PCP and the PS on the use of technologies in school context. Nothing more current, nothing more timely, nothing more aligned with what has been the public debate on this subject. I venture to say that it is not difficult to converge on the concern about the excessive use of technologies by children and young people, either in school or out of school. This is, in fact, a challenge that technologies have come to impose on families and society in general, so schools, as formal educational contexts, do not remain, nor could they remain, out of this equation. Technological development is not now and the impact on our lives is not. But the speed at which it happens and the increasing impact it produces imposes on us a reflection, as necessary as urgent, about how we can look at technologies, whether they are mobile, smartphones, computers or tablets, as well as on digitization processes, such as those involving manuals, evaluation or teaching and working tools at a distance. And the reality is that we can look at technology in two ways: as an advantage, to the extent that it allows children and young people to access more information, to other ways of learning and connecting with the world and with others; or as a risk, which makes children dependent and vulnerable to inadequate content and potentially dangerous relationships. Currently, there are already some indicators about how technologies relate to different aspects of development, well-being and even mental health of children and young people. The impact on psychomotor skills, on attention, on socio-emotional competences, since the earliest ages, coupled with the emergence and growing evolution of new phenomena — which, already existing, are now transferred to the online, such as cyberbullying, pointed out by UNESCO as the most negative consequence of the use of mobile phones in school context, are obviously weight variables that should call us all for a serious and profound reflection on this matter. A fearless reflection on how we want our children and young people to grow up and relate to a world that — and no longer gives — is even technological. The PS makes an important contribution to this debate, presenting a project based on two principles especially relevant to an area always given to many "achisms": first, the principle of decision-making based on scientific evidence and a multidisciplinary view on the subject, listening to professionals of psychology, education and, of course, technology; second, the principle of the autonomy of schools in the construction of solutions appropriate to their educational contexts, starting from extended reflection processes and participating in the educational community. We do not exclude the possibility of changing legal instruments and of contemplating limitations or restrictions on the use of technologies, particularly mobile phones, in the school context, as a way to meet these demanding challenges. What we do not consider is that this should be the starting point for this process. We prefer to consider it as a result of a process of auscultation of science and land, confident that schools are organizations able to find the most balanced and appropriate answers to their realities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u112	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also do not ignore that there are already strategies, programmes and various concrete instruments and measures, which currently compete to promote healthy, safe and responsible learning environments in our schools. We can talk about the curriculum guidelines for ICT ( information and communication technologies) in paragraph 1. the cycle; we can talk about the essential learnings in ICTs from the 5th to the 9th year; we can talk about the National Education Strategy for Citizenship; we can talk about initiatives with great impact in the communities, such as the School Without Bullying, the School Without Violence or the Programme Digital Academy for Parents; we can talk, at a more macro level, about national and European strategies focused on protection, respect, training for the digital world and for the safety of children and young people in cyberspace; and we can still talk about the School's Digital Development Action Plan. In relation to recreation and playful and educational occupation of children's free time in school context, mentioned also in some projects and area of extreme importance that can, in fact, compete for this reflection, it should be remembered that it is the subject of the competence of each educational community, which includes in its project the activities that fit reality and needs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time for us to have a constructive debate, without demagogy, so that simple and reductive solutions, such as those that are merely prohibitive, do not arise for highly complex and deeply systemic problems. That's why the PS is here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u113	To present the Resolution Project No 912 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — To value recreation, promote its pedagogical, playful and social role, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP considers that society should reflect on and address the problems that excessive use of play screens generates, and also considers that measures are necessary to protect children and young people from the consequences of this practice, valuing the time, space and opportunities they have to play and live with in an active and healthy way. The abuse of play screens is not an exclusive of children and young people and it is not possible to change their attitudes without changing the behaviors of society in general with the screens and the conditions in which they occur. It manifests the insufficiency of free time, space, time and conditions for living with family and friends, inseparable from the hours and hours of work imposed on parents, the enormous distances between home and school, the long waiting times before and after classes, to which the insufficiency of space, time and recreation add. The issue should involve the participation of parents and children themselves and young people in the discussion about their use in leisure and waiting times, but also requires that we revisit the architecture and organization of schools and that we critically deal with the lack of leisure activities and professionals in various areas, which stimulate them and guide them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u116	As the CFP proposes, among other measures, the Government should: undertake the study of recreational experiences, free of digital equipment and consider their possible generalisation; promote guidance, with a view to the benefit of children and young people, of recreation in its fullness, including play, play and socialization among peers; ensure the democratic involvement of the school community and, in particular, of students in the process of reflection and decision-making;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u118	... provide guidelines for the use of play screens to be restricted to programs integrated into the educational project in pre-school and basic education, ensuring the non-exposure of children from 0 to 3 years old to any type of screen; mobilize funds for the requalification of outdoor spaces of schools, allowing the coexistence of natural elements, with the installation of equipment in appropriate spaces, which can be used by all children, in various weather conditions, for the development of play, cultural, sports, recreational activities, and to ensure the right to play freely;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u119	Exactly! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u120	... to increase the hours by school for the development of extracurricular activities of cultural, artistic, sports, educational clubs, school sports and the dynamization of multivalent spaces; to hire librarian teachers in the relationship of at least one by school library; to promote actions for the healthy use of play screens, connected with plans to promote the mental health of children and young people; to ensure the hiring of more workers, particularly technicians in the area of sociocultural animation; to update the portal that defines the ratio of educational action assistants, considering the various types of schools; to strengthen the number of psychologists per school, aiming at the goal of a technician for 500 students, enabling better follow-up of students. Finally, among other measures, the Government must constitute multidisciplinary teams to ensure adequate monitoring, the right to use outer spaces and to ensure support in accordance with the specific needs of each student. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u121	Mrs. Members, having completed the presentation phase of the projects of the various parliamentary groups, we will move on to the interventions. To that end, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the teachers, since tomorrow we mark Professor's World Day, and, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the mission of all the teachers and educators who make us a lot of what we are. [[PSD applause.]] With or without a screen? That's the question! EUR 500 million from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) to invest in digital school and 1 million obsolete computers later, with Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion to promote the digital network throughout the country, with Portuguese students who, in the voice of the Ministry of Education, learned more at home with technologies than at school, and with the news that, after all, October is the month of digital competences—in which the Government announced 40 initiatives to promote competences, one of them, precisely the EUSODIGITAL @Scholas, a partnership between the EUSODIGITAL programme and the Administrative Modernization, on October 26 at any school near you, a true film, therefore— comes now to the PS of this House asking the Government to prepare an extended study on the risks and challenges of technologies in school, already after introducing Magalhães in 2008 in schools. The PS Government, about the month of competences, says that the development of a critical and multifaceted thought is of the greatest importance so that digital competences promote inclusion, autonomy, well-being and social justice. And then the PS Members come in their draft resolution to say that the technologies of the digital galaxy continue to provoke and promote social phenomena, including the emphasis on social inequalities. But does technology, after all, promote inclusion or promote inequality?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u123	It depends! You haven't noticed that part yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u124	But, after all, what is the PS project for education? The problem is, you don't know! Is it digital school or is it manual school? Oh, my God! What are we staying on?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u125	It depends! Not even that part understood!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u126	There are four good reasons for this ‘campaquet’ of all, especially this PS of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u127	Cambalhota? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u128	Do you want to mask the failure of digital school with thousands of computers that still fit into schools? Do you want to mask other kinds of social problems or phenomena and, indeed, your draft resolution answers other questions? Do you want to control school, teachers and students by removing the autonomy and freedom of choice of tools suitable for learning? Or do you want all of this in a single box?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u129	Even it seems that people will stop reading and writing on paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u130	The problem with this is that the PS doesn't know what he wants. The Left Block wants to ban, as always; the NAP wants a plan for good living in the educational community; and the PCP wants everything in 15 measures and a couple more boots.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u131	The PSD what do you want?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u132	He wants to give the school to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u133	The PSD understands that each school, within its own autonomy, is responsible for its educational project and the characteristics of each class and of each student, and can decide in its own rules of procedure — approved by the General Council, where the entire educational community is represented — the way in which it operates and its school context. By the way, this is what's happening. the teacher can decide what are the most suitable tools for learning, how he wants to teach and how his students should learn. We understand that it is not the PSD that will be implicated in each teacher's pedagogical practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u134	PSD doesn't know what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u135	The school is, in fact, a high-cost workshop; it is not a ready to wear. It cannot be the same for everyone, it is according to the circumstances of each one — and this decision is the decision of the school and the teacher. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u136	The PSD respects and trusts the autonomy of schools, their leaders and their teachers. We defend confidence in the teacher and in what he believes should be his pedagogical project for each student and each class, which is his responsibility; we trust in this work. We also understand that new technologies can, in fact, boost the human capital of each student. That is why it serves its creativity: to prepare it for life and the labour market, increasingly demanding at the level of digital tools and artificial intelligence. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Yes, the debate is important. We are aware of the dangers and their excesses, but that is why the way is not to ban. The way is to pedagogy about the best use of technologies and trust that schools, parents and educators, all together, will make this path. It is a shared responsibility and it is not a pure and harsh legislation that will fill failures. Do you really want recreation, living rooms, schools and classrooms without technology? We want it too! The problem is that the government did not do its job, did not requalify schools; it goes on to a second agreement with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and we continue with the schools without responding to what many of the projects presented here today claim. So, in fact, we are here today discussing something that the government itself, in eight years of governance, has not been able to close. That's the point! They want school sports practice. We want it too! The problem is that the PS has even ended with most of the national competitions, and now complains and comes to complain, in this House, about larger recreation spaces. In fact, the school park projects at school level, we know them well: they ended most of these spaces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u137	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u138	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. The PS agreed with this existential doubt and now wants to ask the teachers and the Council of Schools, whether I hear them or an opinion. That is, those who now serve to advise you do not serve to recover the time of service. First of all, the PS has to ask itself—between the PS Government and the PS Parliament—what is the educational project for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u139	Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by making a note that seems important to me. the day and the time we are here — and, despite being out of the debate, I would not like this House to stay away from the situation — we just learned that Portugal is going to organize the 2030 football world. We would like to leave this greeting to Portuguese football, all those responsible for Portuguese football, and say that Portuguese football, in fact, is a great football. Portugal is happy and we are all happy. That's great news for today. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Clearly, it seems to me that there is a problem in Portuguese schools, European schools and, in general, in the new model of Western school. Children face problems of socialization, vocabulary problems and problems of inclusion in the community. That seems obvious to everyone. The diagnosis is therefore not difficult to do. Our children spend more and more hours on smartphones, spend more and more hours with technological and electronic equipment and this, naturally and obviously, as in all countries of the world, is having its effects. Coming here, we must ask ourselves: what solution do we have to deal with a problem? The solution on the left is neither innovative nor surprising: to ban, ban and ban.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u142	In fact, there are things of the devil! The Left Block, which is in favour of the change of sex at 16 years of age, wants to prohibit the use of mobile phones at 1. o and no 2. or cycles. There are things of the devil! There are things of the devil! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And you want to ban when countries that have already experienced this experience, such as Sweden, Norway, Singapore and France, which did it last year, still have no absolute results from the experiences that have been carried out. So it's that logic that when there's a problem, what you do is you ban. The logic is to say that you can't and children have to be digital illiterate the rest of their time. We understand that this is not the solution. We need to find solutions to a serious problem. We have to find solutions to a problem of dependence, change and affect, but we do not have to create prohibition models that will advance to other censorship models. Yes, sir. Members, other models of censorship. I wanted to make this clear: today the Left Block wants to ban smartphones in the games 1. o and no 2. cycles; tomorrow you will want to ban social networks on 1. o No. 2. o is number three. the cycles; and then you will want to ban social networks in a large part of the country, because now the truth is no longer the truth that the left has become accustomed to living for so many years. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] It's the truth of those who type it every day, share it and follow it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] We are not afraid of freedom. We are not afraid that whoever wants to share, shares; whoever wants to see, sees; whoever wants to spread, disseminates; and whoever wants to follow, follows. We know that today there is a movement to restrict the digital freedom of new generations — that is easy to understand. The parties who have become accustomed to living on account of power feel that for the first time in their history, social networks and the new digital model have challenged their domain and dominance. But we have to ask ourselves what country we want: if we want a country of digital illiterates or if we want the country of the best in the world, not only in football, but also in digital. That is where I want our country, among the best in the world, not only in football, not only in hockey, but also in social networks, computers, technology and everything that makes Portugal move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u144	This is our difference from the extreme left. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I could not finish without making a reference to the Socialist Party, which has a word in all the debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u145	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u146	To date, as recently said the president of the National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools, schools still await government guidance on technological use in school. And the PS does what it does best, always: each one who sees as he can, each one who sees. The Minister brought a new one this week: he asked for an opinion. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] We all said: "Ah, the minister asked for an opinion! » And I remembered - from those opinions of the airport, those opinions that have been asked for years - for the new airport, for dams and for all constructions. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, if you cannot work, if you cannot solve problems, please do us a favor: in God's name, let us rule ourselves! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u147	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u148	Hey! For what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u149	Madam President, Dear colleagues : It is easy to agree that we need to know more about the effects of the use of smart screens and mobile phones by children. It is easy, for those who are informed, to know that science is not conclusive. The great issue that we have to decide and debate between ourselves is, when we do not know absolutely and when we are talking about children — that is, humans who are in a stage of evolution, personality formation — whether the precautionary principle applies or does not apply. We can do all kinds of rables we want, but it applies to the technologies exactly what's good for chemicals and food: the precautionary principle applies when we don't know everything yet. It's easy to pretend great certainty. This debate has to do with what we are not sure about and the precautionary principle applies when we are talking about citizens who are more vulnerable than those who are already in a more advanced stage of training their personality. So this is what divides the projects that came here, with which it is easy to agree in everything, from the Left Block, which introduces a question of the principle of caution in recreation. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] The question I leave is why in 1. o and no 2. the cycles, knowing that the children of 2. the cycle often live with those of the 3. the cycle in the same schools?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u150	They should be outlawing everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u151	Doesn't that make a difference in the same play you're playing together, kids who can have cell phones and others who can't have cell phones? The precautionary principle itself would not have advised you to start with 1. the cycle only and if they expected the studies to then be able to move forward with other measures?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u152	Explain that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Smartphones, screens in schools and recreation—will there be a unique answer? Will there be a comparison between recreations, for example, in a Lisbon school, in a traditional education system, or in a hybrid education system in rural areas? No, there isn't. As there is no such answer, we must also be able to distinguish between the roles of mother, father, tutor, pedagogue and producer of public policy. on this subject, as in others, we must always doubt the goodness of a unique and centralized solution. The autonomy of schools and attention to specific cases are essential. Technology is increasingly present in the professional and personal lives of all of us, and necessarily also students. This is a global trend that has come to remain, has opportunities and has challenges. Technology is neither the solution to all problems nor the source of all evils. Technology should not be seen as a singular, unique thing; it is, yes, different in forms, in intensity, in purposes and contexts, and it is in this combination that there are advantages and disadvantages. For example, in the classroom, there is obviously the creation of learning in dynamics, in digital literacy, in the gaming environment and in adaptability to various learning rhythms. Research itself, research and creativity are positive. It is also important to talk about digital literature: we are faced with new developments — artificial intelligence, for example — and we cannot decontext this of our future. But it is also true that, in a very intensive use, the evidence in studies shows more and more this: it decreases the attention capacity, impairs the development and consolidation of socialization skills, especially in the components of empathy, and poses risks to physical and mental health, including cyberbullying. From a more technical point of view, for example, the profile of the student out of compulsory education, which refers us to digital skills, but also to others. Here comes something that is difficult to legislate, called "good sense". Social and behavioral standards are fundamental, especially in the early years of life, in which we are acquiring skills and even shaping personality. This implies that the school plays a very important role in the healthy and responsible use of technology, both in the school context and outside of it. It means that digital literature is fundamental, competences are fundamental, but simply cannot be forgotten the social dimension outside of technology. The ban that has been found in some schools results not from technology itself, but from lack of awareness and unbridled use. Clearly, it is important to favour the autonomy of schools, considering the possibility of adaptation to various pedagogical models. Because, no. 1. the cycle, there must be a consideration, for the moment, pond, for example, between a room and a recreation? Why can't there be more hybrid environments? There are no unique answers, I repeat. It is important to evaluate the limits of the use of technology with the involvement of the educational community. She can never be out of this equation. It is also important to train students for a healthy use of technology and this allows them to give the tools not only for the school, but out of it, hence the importance of promoting self-regulation skills for students. Our votes will thus follow these rules, and I reiterate the autonomy of schools and the role of the school community, because the context matters, because choice and diversity matter. I conclude by recalling that the pandemic has demonstrated, with a giant violence, the impact of physical non-contact, lack of smile and hugs, the impact of confinement on motority, on the human body and, yes, on changes in human relations. Growth includes social interaction. It seems important to remember and, playing with the words, that is not a question of shut down, log off or change screen in personal relationships. It should not, and cannot, be negationist, banist or other «this». Technology is good, but it is also good recreation, outdoors, discoveries, promoting the ability to risk and physical contact. That's part of school and growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u155	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u156	I conclude by saying that recreation is a mirror and a reflection of society, in which it will have an impact, however, does not imply denying the fundamental role of technologies. Therefore, in addition to strengthening the autonomy of schools, I would like to make it clear that this is not a matter of connecting or disconnecting technology, but of connecting or disconnecting human relations. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u157	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u158	Madam President: I am glad that the Left Block has taken the initiative to schedule the debate on this subject for today, because it is a subject that is being debated in society and Parliament cannot stay out of this debate. Mrs Carla Castro has just said that there are no unique solutions. For us, that is a fundamental aspect of this debate. When there are no unique solutions, when there are different settings, different ages, different contexts, different interactions...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u159	They're not doing anything! You guys don't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u160	These are the things that worry those who care about the school and those who care about the students. But there are only those who worry about the parliamentary noise, which is the case of the honourable Member who is now screaming next door. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u161	Who shouts is your aunt!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u162	Who cares about school and students is about these things that worry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u163	You don't know what you're saying, you don't say what you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u164	Therefore, I think that there is here a group of Members of different political forces who are aware of a problem that deserves our reflection, deserves more study, deserves more involvement of schools, deserves more involvement in science to find the paths.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u165	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u166	Reference institutions, such as UNESCO, for example, in recent years, have changed their views, in a rather sharp way, about what should be done or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u167	Even Rui Tavares will leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u168	And this shows that whoever has responsibility and who really thinks, at the bottom, the problems are attentive and available to learn from reality. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] It's not the technologies they command. As I used to tell my students right away, there is no technological determinism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u169	Poor students!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u170	What is done with technologies depends on what we do, on what we decided to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u171	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u172	You've got two more hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u173	I conclude, Madam President. What we cannot accept is those who always run away from this debate with that negative position, those who, when we wanted to extend compulsory education, did not know whether it was worth it or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u174	Canal História!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u175	The PSD has abstained precisely for that! [[PSD protests.]] What we can't accept is those who, when we started investing in science, said there were more doctors and it wasn't worth it to go there and...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u176	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u177	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u178	... those who, when we introduced the wager to the renewables, thought it was not worth it. These are those who now, having spent all these years, still come to criticize Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u179	Which Magalhães? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u180	They're so late, they're so late for so many decades. That is not what we need, we need to look to the future and discuss the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u181	Socrates really liked Magalhães!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u182	It was just gamuting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u183	Let's move on to the closing phase. Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u184	Madam President: I do not know if it was because of a lack of digital skills that Mr. André Ventura did not read our project, but to evaluate for his intervention, it is clear that he did not read it. [[‘Clarinho’? That's racism!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u185	In fact, this is an extensible problem, it is not exclusive to the PSD, which also does not read the project of the Left Block, having come here discussing something else. We can't discuss what's not on the table. The project of the Left Block aims that students... in fact, let me put the phrase in another way to make sure they understand well: the project of the Left Block intends that the internal regulations of each school discuss the use of equipment and mobile phones by students, in particular considering the reflection that has been made on their use, in recreations, by students up to 13. And what is this? It is more or less UNESCO's concerns that are known to all but that have been ignored by all Members, except for Porfirio Silva. by the visas, UNESCO recommendations are of no value in this Parliament. This is because they now accuse the Left Block of wanting prohibitionist measures, such measures that have given apparent positive results in all schools, including in Portugal, where they have been implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u186	Appears! Very apparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u187	I speak of positive results related to cyberbullying and the development of a set of social, emotional, intellectual skills that we all recognize are important.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u188	That's not all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u189	What can not happen, and has happened, is to bring here a set of concerns that derive from the principle that playful use — playful! — excessive screens in recreation are worrying, but then they deny any action allowing schools to discuss this issue and assume clear rules, which is what the Left Block wants. [[Protests by PSD Deputies Antonio Cunha and Sonia Ramos.]] We are not withdrawing autonomy from schools, which, in fact, continue to be able to determine, in its Rules of Procedure, in which terms this is applied, we are not withdrawing participation, because we have even introduced criteria for the participation of students and education officers who are not guaranteed. [[CH protests.]] We are only ensuring that this matter, in the light of what we already know today, is discussed in schools, taking into account the protection of children and in the sense that the Minister of Education himself has already said, i.e. that he preferred this model to limit mobile phones in recreation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u190	Parents are useless!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u191	Parents have to do this! Families have to do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u192	The use of mobile phones in the classroom with didactic monitoring is not at all concerned with the acquisition of digital skills, except to a extent: it is also a digital competence to know how to turn off.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u193	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u194	Madam President, I am done. It is an absurd primaryism to think that teaching children that there are moments to turn off the phone and realize that this has benefits in their life has some motivation that not to want healthier recreation, and that is what we propose here. We do not want to wait for studies to tell us what we already know today. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests and complaints from BE Member Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u195	We move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the evaluation of Resolution Projects Nos. 591 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue the path and process of relocation of public entities and services, 483 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government update the cost and transport aid values to public administration staff, 901 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government install the new central administration services within and create a program for the gradual relocation of public services to these territories, 904 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national plan for decentralization and territorial decentralisation of public services and strengthens the labour rights of workers of displaced public services, and 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reopen public services closed in the territories of the country or of low population density. To present the PS initiative, Mr Sobrinho Teixeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today I am pleased to present draft resolution No 591/XV / 1. the PS, which recommends that the Government continue the path and process of relocation of public entities and services. This debate brings to the discussion the most global problem of interior development. I would like to point out to you that, from my experience of many years inside, I can say that its biggest problem is the reduction in population, which will justify in itself the other problems, including the unjustifiable closure of services or the loss of competitiveness of territories. The demographic reduction resulted essentially from the flow of people from the interior to the coast, due to the lack of employment opportunities and the country's investment as a whole. The question is so old that I would like to mention here the intervention of Brigitan Mr Pires Vilar, at the session of 23 February 1880, addressing the then Minister of Public Works, about the de-investment in Bragança district : « [... ] The greatest terror that can inspire any civil or military official is threatened with a transfer to Bragança. Bragança is supposed to be Siberia, and its district is an unwelcome and miserable country, without the necessary importance for the State to make in its favor any sacrifice, but reserves, however, the right to compel the whole caste of sacrifices for the common good, of which little takes part. Do not keep on seeking. ” Fortunately, the country has evolved and the conditions, quality of life and the relationship between quality and cost of life have changed substantially in the regions of the interior, so that today, much more than the attractiveness of the territories, the question for the development of the interior are incentives to the economy that generate job creation by making it possible to fix in these territories all those who wish to live there. Bragança is no longer Siberia, nor its district is an unsuspecting country, and our interior, which may be a region still with difficulties, is above all a region of opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore important to demystify the perception, essentially based on ignorance, that people do not want to go inside. Let me give you some examples that contradict that perception. With the exception of the medical area, transversal to the country, I do not remember any competition opened by the central or local administration in the interior that has remained desert. In all competitions, particularly in the recruitment of highly qualified resources, I speak mainly of teachers and doctors, demand has largely exceeded supply and, under the management of the PS governments, we already have nine collaborative laboratories within the country. If you ask the students of the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança, who I know well — institution with almost 10,000 students and most outside the region — where they would like to stay when they finished their studies, they would say they wanted to stay in our region if they had any opportunities. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] The essential thing is to create an economy to create jobs, through the success of the measures already implemented by the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, from boosting competitions to the economy, specifically aimed at the interior. I refer, for example, to the + CO3SO Employment, + CO3SO Economy and incentives for productive innovation. But to create a competitive economy, it is also essential to create knowledge. in this sense, I would like to highlight the work done by higher education over the past eight years, under the rule of the Socialist Party. We had only 36 municipalities with higher education in 2015, and in 2022 we already had 134 locations with higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is crucial to continue to deepen these policies for the provision of critical mass essential for the creation of a competitive economy. Our challenge is thus job creation to generate economics and to encourage the economy to generate jobs. The Government must therefore pursue and deepen its policy to ensure that new public services which are being created are done in the regions of the interior. I stress that this draft resolution is not only limited to its recommendation to services under the direct administration of the State, but also to those arising from the ongoing decentralization process, as is the case with regional coordination and development committees ( CCDR ). The Government must also pursue policies to encourage the relocation of services to the interior, safeguarding the position and rights of the workers involved. I would mention, for example, the work carried out in the inland mobility programmes, which have already enabled the relocation and fixing of 4229 workers or the 92 coworking spaces installed. I end up, as a transmountan and man from within, saying that if you asked me where I would invest the financial resources that were allocated to us today, they would be essentially for the creation of economy and employment, because what we need most is people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u197	To present the PSD initiatives, Mr. João Plata has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Addressing the issue of intelligent occupation of the territory with people and services is also confirming that something is not going well with regard to reducing territorial asymmetries. I am not a catastropheist to say that nothing has been done and everything is wrong, but the result is truly rare for the billions we have received. We have an unbalanced country from the point of view of the distribution of the population and the intelligent presence of the state in low-density territories. in these 50 years, it was the "D" to decolonize that effectively made the return of many hundreds of thousands of citizens to the country. We know the most essential value of local and regional powers. There were people and organizations who marked and punctured these territories. For that time, we have come to realize the importance of democracy's 'D'. Later, in the 1990s, we again came to know a bold and bold policy for these territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u200	A real revolution was made, which was to assign decisive power to the decentralized services of the central administration, and at the same time implemented the network of higher education in all district capitals. [[PSD applause.]] This time has again been decisive for development 'D'. I remind you that in 2023, well-known universities in the country will celebrate their fiftieth anniversary and we know the importance of these universities as powerful allies of local and national development. I speak of Braga, Aveiro, Vila Real, Covilhã and Évora. from the 90s to here, it must be recognized that the policies of the necessary and continued territorial and social cohesion have not been able to be revolutionary enough to reverse what is today the panorama. See the PRR that could and should be a good option to leverage, support and encourage business, autarchic and citizenship practices. The intelligent presence of the State in low-density territories is very little encouraged. In the primary sector, the state is increasingly absent, complaining only to its technicians and only bureaucratic and visual works. The business sector—which my colleague Member of the Socialist Party has spoken of—is, yes, decisive for what is intended, but it is not as acceptable the State's efforts in reduced institutions in personnel, responsibilities, skills and material means. Everything remains too concentrated. [[PSD applause.]] As regards housing, in the discussion we have made here, for example, there was no concern in the proposals presented by the various parties about the reconstruction of the building in rural areas. Today, the interior lands, as many of those here know, are coveted by foreigners and also by nationals. Important road communication routes have certainly been built. Some will still be missing and many are promised in election campaigns. The railways, with successive delays, are being improved, it is true, but they shame the ads behind advertisements, with little adherence to reality. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the so widespread digital connectivity remains unimplemented, as we were able to observe and listen to the meetings we had in the inter-municipal communities. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD presents to this debate two draft resolutions and, in general, I can say that the Social Democratic Party accompanies the content of almost all the projects presented here. With regard to the draft resolution on the updating of cost and transport aid, we can only expect that all parties in this House today can achieve it unanimously, so as not to leave to tomorrow what can already be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u202	I remember that this PSD proposal is a court cut by a government led by Mr. Eng.o José Socrates. [[PSD applause.]] I therefore refer to the PS, which has in the comfort of another Government announcement the opportunity to say « yes » for once, and not always use the « no », as you did in the proposals on health, education, housing and taxes presented by the PSD,... [[PSD applause.]] ... since it is no longer, Mr. President and Mr. Members, in order not to disappoint the date on which this draft resolution entered the Assembly of the Republic: on 14 February of this year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u203	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Legislation after Parliament, the debate on the demographic winter, in which we all agree with the need to bet on the inside, has been repeated. But the truth is that these debates have not been enough. Thus we arrived in 2023 and continue to have an excessively centralised country, which, according to OECD data ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) continues to occupy remote positions in all indicators of decentralization and comparison between countries. More: we reached 2023 and we know that the last census tells us that we are too focused on the coast, as half of our population lives in only 31 municipalities, mostly located in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. Maintaining this situation is undoubtedly to prolong an atrophy that does not give us a state organization capable of responding to the challenges of the 21st century or to the abandonment of the interior. In today's debate, what the NAP proposes is that it look at territorial deconcentration and services in a structural and structured way, through a national plan of decentralization and territorial deconcentration of public services, which can establish that the installation of new public services and/or the relocation of public services occurs preferably to territories of the interior, but that such a decision is taken on the basis of a previous and rigorous cost-benefit assessment, in terms that they always ensure respect for workers' rights. We must also go further, because we must not forget that, with regard to the rights of workers, the difficulty associated with this transfer of services to the inside or outside of Lisbon cannot cause discomfort to workers, particularly in family terms, so that this decision implies. For the NAP, these difficulties are not, nor can they be, inevitable. There must first be a strengthening of their labour rights and a more gradual transition, which is adjusted to the efforts of digitisation undertaken in recent years and to telework, or even a 'gradualization' of immediate travel. On the other hand, we do not want the difficulty of finding a home as a reason to keep workers away from this solution and therefore we propose that the Government, together with local authorities, create new mechanisms to support the movement and housing of public service workers and their family aggregate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what cannot happen is that we are here, in a short time, to discuss decentralization and relocation to the interior once again, under the penalty of repeating ourselves year after year. [[Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u205	To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Paula Santos now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time that the Assembly of the Republic discusses the problems of public services, public administration, and concerns about the populations of the territories of our country. There is a fact and there is a truth: people residing in the territories of our country need public services, especially public services of proximity, but over the years now by the PSD governments, with or without the CDS, now by the PS governments, several public services have been shut down, harming the populations, leaving even the populations to the abandonment. People need public services which guarantee social functions of the State and constitutional rights throughout the territory, which guarantee cohesion and equality, which combat discrimination and asymmetries. People need services that guarantee access to health, to a family doctor, and that guarantee access to education, a constitutional right. They need central government services that effectively ensure that all citizens have access to what they need to deal with the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u208	It is for this purpose that the CFP brings the debate a proposal that recommends to the Government the reopening of closed public services that are necessary for the service of the population and that effectively create jobs, including schools, public health services, financial allocations, agencies of the General Deposit Box, social security services, posts of the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ), services of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ), regional Directorates of Agriculture and Fisheries. The reopening of public services of proximity, together with the creation of jobs with valued rights and wages: this is crucial for the establishment of the population in the regions of the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u210	Systematically, they come to the debate proposed that new services be installed in the interior regions, the relocation of services to the interior, so that workers in the coastal regions can move, encouraging them to move to the interior, to work remotely. This is always presented as a solution to repopulate the interior territories. It is important to make it clear, as we have said several times: all regions of our country have dignity, they have conditions to receive any service from the central administration. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u211	The question is to know what the peoples of the interior, who live there, who live there, really need to ensure that their rights are guaranteed...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u212	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u213	... and what measures are being taken to ensure that, in fact, there is a repopulation of the interior regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from this point of view that it is not the move from a central administration service to the interior region that will solve these problems of the population. This is the basic question, the structural question that we wanted to bring to this debate, with this proposal, because this illusion is often presented. We even have a state secretary in Bragança, but did this solve the problems of access to health of that population? Have you solved the problems of access to financial services or social security? Have you solved the problems of access to public banking services, TTCs, or even schools, which today are very concentrated in the city halls? It didn't work out.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u214	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u215	This is the bottom line: public services are needed, yes. Close public services are needed that effectively guarantee the social functions of the State, which ensure that there is coverage, which combat inequalities and asymmetries, guarantee fundamental rights. This is what we consider to be central in this debate and therefore we have brought this proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u216	We move on to the intervention stage. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents us today with a draft resolution which aims to recommend to the Government « to continue the path and process of relocation of public bodies ». Keep going, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on exactly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u218	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u219	It is that, in order to pursue a process, it must have begun, and what the Liberal Initiative would like to see on the part of the Socialist Party is precisely when this process of relocation of public entities and services has already begun, because, in fact, no one has noticed — neither we here nor anyone outside. Anyway, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to say, of course, that the Liberal Initiative disagrees with what they are recommending, but we cannot ignore that the government actually did not start anything. With this draft resolution, we are not directly facing a relocation process, but rather a process of intentions that does not have any conclusions or decisions. The same can be said of the other projects under discussion, because none of the proposals compromise with a position or present any concrete solution for the current concentration of organisms in the capital and coast of the country. This lack of decisions is so serious or more because relocation and decentralisation could perfectly be taken advantage of by the government as one of the tools to alleviate the housing crisis in the largest cities in the country. On the one hand, with this relocation and with the decentralization of competences, we would be contributing to territorial cohesion, greater appreciation of the territories and a country with a greater capacity to produce equality for its citizens, regardless of their place of residence. And, on the other hand, we would be releasing buildings in large cities, which could obviously be transformed into housing, at the same time that we would also be reducing the housing needs of large cities. Mrs. Members, if we are not going to increase the housing supply, if we are not going to build large-scale housing, it is obviously necessary to reduce demand for housing, especially on the coast and in the capital of the country. The relocation and decentralisation should therefore be a priority of the Ministry of Housing. But the truth is that on decentralization, on relocation of the Public Administration, there was no, there is no, and I dare say that there will be no words from the ministries, especially the Minister of Housing. The concern with current workers and their families is obviously valid and is relevant, of course, but this concern cannot have only one meaning either. This is because we cannot forget that the concentration of companies and bodies in Lisbon and the fact that most of the public administration services are concentrated in Lisbon forces thousands of people to come to work in Lisbon, to the State, to move to the capital, where, once again, as has already been said, we do not have a housing offer. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I can say that liberal ideas are taking their way. After the Liberal Initiative has presented its vision of the relocation and decentralisation of various public administration bodies, at the moment we have the other parties running after the damage, but obviously without great convictions or great certainty, and no concrete decisions. We know that Portugal is a historically centralist and deeply unequal country, but this must not be the fate of our country. So it is in our hands to change this destiny. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u220	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u221	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u222	Mr President, in the light of the Rules of Procedure, you must address the President and the Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u223	Mrs. Members of the Bureau of the Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u224	I am sorry, Mr, it is really the President and the House that you have to address. [[PS protests.]] I ask for silence. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u225	Mr President — unfortunately not all Members, like those who are attacked in protest, which is my case,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] ...Mrs. and Mrs. Members:... [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[PS protests.]] ... Portugal is a country where decentralization is increasingly a mirage. Only in Lisbon and Tejo Valley, whose area represents 13 % of the continental territory, live 3, 5 million inhabitants, about 35 % of the population living in Portugal, which represents great economic and social imbalances that the socialists, who have destroyed us for years, fear not to solve. In September 2020, the then Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão, our colleague Member, said, and I quote, that "technology will help solve problems of low population density within, improve mobility and solve problems of housing shortage", but so far nothing. Socialists like advertisements and propaganda, but then you'll see and, results, nothing! The Independent Commission for Decentralisation, created in 2018, should be brought to mind, in which one of the main objectives was to develop a programme of deconcentration of the location of public entities and services, ensuring consistency in the presence of the State on the territory. Question : How many public debates have been held? How many entities have been heard? According to the report produced and submitted in 2019 by this Independent Commission, criteria and measures were recommended to enable the relocation of public services, ensuring consistent presence of the State in the territory. Despite all these recommendations, what has this government done so far? Nothing. Members of this House have visited the country visiting the inter-municipal communities and have seen, with their own eyes, the state of the roads, the lack of Internet coverage, the difficulty of access to any public service, the lack of proximity health care, the price of the tolls. It is impossible to fix young people or take them inside when we do nothing to combat the stigma of the aged, rural, desertified, stagnant, depressed interior. The Government has also created the programme Internal Employment MORE- Mobility Supported for a Sustainable Interior, whose aim is to promote greater territorial cohesion. But what has been the effectiveness of all these programmes? The coastal/internal dichotomy exists and will remain, because the inequalities of opportunities remain, from then on due to the lower quality of the services provided by the State in the areas of culture, education, justice and health. Government propaganda, with the very creation of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and all the draft resolutions already approved in this House, has in no way promoted the desired return to the interior and, once again, the projects presented today will not go away from a set of recommendations that the government will put in the drawer. PS comes to recommend what it has already approved in April, PSD recommends...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u226	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but there is a lot of noise in the Chamber and I am not listening to you. I ask for silence so that you can continue your speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u227	The PS recommends what it has already approved in April; the PSD recommends that all services now be relocated; the NAP gives a "hand" to the government and transfers responsibility to the authorities; and the CFP, in good communist fashion, recommends the reopening of all services without criteria. It's not enough intention, it takes action!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u229	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the main action is to end socialism and return hope to the Portuguese, especially to the Portuguese of the interior. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u230	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal is a centralist country, it is evidence. The administration of the State is centralist, the parties are centralist, the social communication is centralist, the public space is generally centralist, and those who are not from Lisbon realize this on a daily basis. There's a lot to be done in this field. The decentralization of services, if the rights of workers — which is a fundamental issue — can make a symbolic contribution to this matter, but, as far as public services are concerned, to a population that has seen the closing of the school, which is left out of the finances, which has seen the social security closed, which is left without the bank of the Box, which is left without the postal services, what is the advantage of it, substantially, that a general direction is planted there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u232	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u233	It does not do, and it is even natural that it is so, that it is distributed throughout the country, but the central aspect of the contribution of the State and public services to territorial cohesion is that there are public services throughout the territory, transport throughout the territory, health centres and health care throughout the territory, Social Security, Banks, Mails, schools — rural schools, which can be equipment at the service of the community, in addition to their mere educational function, because they have libraries, have sports spaces, are a public service to the service of the community. In other words, the presence of the State in the form of the multiple care needed by the population is what makes the difference The PS and PSD have, in this regard, a very bad curriculum: some, because they have angrily shut down public services when they were in the government; others, because they have not reopened much of these public services that they need. The relocation of departments of the State cannot be a compensation for the lack of public services that the people feel, nor can it be a kind of rhetorical disguise for the actual reduction of services at various points in the country, and this is the position of the Left Block in this matter. On two other aspects that are also under discussion, cost aid and transport subsidies—which were cut by the Socialist Party in 2010 and which were further cut by the right, the PSD and the CDS in 2013—we believe that ending this cut and updating the cost aid and the transport allowance should, of course, be done. It is also important, for example, for multiple inspection services that have to travel, which have to travel and have these cost aids. On telework in Public Administration, it is a resource, obviously, but it is not a panacea for decentralization. In fact, it would no longer be wrong for the government to pay the allowance, compensation for increased costs to workers in telework, which is in the law that this House of the Republic has made and which is already planned in a gate which the Government has published. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many public administration workers receive compensation for telework expenses? The information is from the government : zero workers! There's not a single sample. Therefore, it would no longer be wrong for the Government to pay the allowance for compensation for the increase in telework expenses to those employees of the Public Administration who are, in particular, in this scheme, which may also be an instrument and a resource in this area. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u234	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u235	Mr President, Dear colleagues : This is a debate that could be nice, if it were not a misleading debate. This is because, in addition to the PS draft resolution, which calls on the Government to continue the path of relocation — a path that, as we know, goes very slowly, if it is moving forward at all! — the other draft resolutions basically say that we have to do something that is a substitute for really giving people the power to decide on their behalf, which is what is also known in the interior for'strengthening the leg to the frog'. That is what we are dealing with when there is a debate that does not affect regionalisation, as if the fact that the centre remembers to put a service here or there was to solve a 50-year problem after 25 April, when the Constitution says that regionalization should be done and the people should have the ability to decide on their own behalf their strategies against desertification, health, education and so on. The referendum that defeated regionalisation was in 1998. There have already been three decades after that, we are already further away from the referendum than he was on 25 April, so it is time for parties that do not yet know whether they are in favor or against regionalization if they decide or present their plan. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] It is time to have confidence in people, let them decide whether or not they want regionalization; basically, they decide whether the power really emanates from the people and whether we have confidence in the country to make their regional decisions on their own. Because that's what the average cities develop, that's what gives cohesion to the country and that's what really gives power to people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u236	That represents 600 votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u237	...that they may not be waiting for a gift that the centre, from time to time, remembers giving them by decentralizing a service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u238	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u239	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u240	Mr President, you must address the President and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u241	I regret that the Bureau did not have the same understanding as Article 89. when Mr Porfirio Silva only addressed the President-in-Office at the time and did not address his colleagues. There cannot be a table with an understanding for some and a table with an understanding for others. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I therefore welcome the Bureau, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u242	Mr President, you must address the President and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u243	Mr President of some Members in this Parliament, in this Assembly of the Republic,... [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u244	It's an uncut way, but please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u245	...Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of an important debate on the interior, once again, and what the Socialist Party is presenting is a farce for the interior of the country. He says he's going to decentralize, but it's all a farce and it's always curious to have been Mr. Sobrinho Teixeira, elected by the electoral circle of Bragança, who came to make the presentation of this project. Mr. Deputies, in Bragança district, there are villages with only Spanish mobile network, there are villages that can't even call 112...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u246	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u247	... and you come here to spread a great work of the Socialist Party in the district of Bragança! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u248	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u249	How much is it to reach Bragança? As regards the abolition of tolls on highways, which this parliamentary group has asked for, how did you vote? He voted against. Therefore, you have no morale to come to say «I am here defending the district». Don't defend! It does not defend the interior of the country, as the Socialist Party does not defend the interior of the country. I will give you one more update, Mr Commissioner, on the reduction of multibank and counter boxes: 9000 people will be affected in 30 fregueses. of these, 12 parishes will be in the district of Bragança, 8 in the district of Vila Real... [[PS and BE protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence, and I also ask Mr Pedro Pinto to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u251	I'll finish. of the 30 affected parishes, 12 are in Bragança, 8 in Vila Real, 4 in Guarda, 3 in Beja, 2 in Faro and 1 in Viana do Castelo. This was what the Socialist Party had to come here to say: "Let us forget the interior". They just don't close the door because they can't, because otherwise that's what they did. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u252	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Sobrinho Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Pinto, look, my morale is the morale of a man who has always been used to being in favour of something. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the only thing I recognize in you is that the only thing you know how to do in life is always being against someone and something. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u254	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u255	I've never seen him do anything like a construction job. For, I will tell you what my morale is: my morale is the morale of the one who made an institution with more than 10,000 students, the largest institution in the interior, who helped fix the tables, who helped bring the greatest revolution in economic and industrial terms to Braganza. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u256	It's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u257	And you come to ask me what my morale is? It's the morals of those who do and not the morals of those who say and do nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u258	To close the debate on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Alves has the floor as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u259	One more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is indisputable that territorial cohesion has gained centrality and government transversality. He also gained organic autonomy in the government, but gained, above all, political strength to get out of the paper and break with hollow words and inconsequential speeches, transforming all this into reopening courts, into more students in higher education institutions in these regions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u261	You've closed the courts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u262	... in mobility programmes for workers in these territories, in investments via PRR and in the historical process of decentralization of competences. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And there's no more effective way to fight asymmetries than...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u263	The telework!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u264	... deliver into the hands of those who live and those who feel the problems of interiority the skills to deal with their present and to draw and build more and more future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u266	The PS Parliamentary Group has also been, during the last few days, closely following many of these challenges within the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u267	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u268	... in the Upper Alentejo, and he was able to accompany and witness the way today, from the territories of the interior of the country, we are able to be national and international leaders in areas such as the construction of drones,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u269	Construction of what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u270	...the barrego industry or the distribution of coffee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] We know that the deconcentration of State services to the territories does not exhaust the path we are taking, but we also know that it is a way we want to go. And I have to tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have examples of the commitment and evidence the Government has given with this agenda:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u271	Let's say that to Portalegre!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u272	... the Central Administrative Court of the Centre, in Castelo Branco ; the new GNR school, in Portalegre. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Liberal Initiative came to this debate... I don't know if it came first — I don't think anything has come first! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u273	They didn't exist yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u274	...but it came wrong. It has come, with a vision that we all have to reject, which is to look at the employees, at the workers of these organizations and see, in their lives, a sort of plasticine with which we shape our passions and our most sudden desires. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u275	We don't want to know! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u276	Too much information!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u277	Nor can we fail to frame all this in a different strategy, which has itinerance of public services, digitization and sharing of challenges and resources between the authorities, to gain scale, even within the framework of inter-municipal communities. When and where municipalities and privates cannot leave this cycle of difficulties, when and where these territories cannot heal the wounds caused by territorial inequalities, it must even be the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u278	It's the descalabre!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u279	... with its empire of policies, laws, means, mechanisms and instruments, such as the Interior Valuation Programme, the PRR and the mobilization agendas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u280	You were still crying yesterday! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u281	...to have the transforming power to give territorial cohesion shocks to these territories and to achieve territorial freedom so that each of us can choose where he wants to live. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u282	Speak in a country that doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u283	You don't know! They never went there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u284	I know it, and I know it! It's the socialist lobby, it's all the boys!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u285	We therefore close this item on the agenda and we will proceed to the vote. I request the services to open the quorum verification period and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register as soon as you can. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] They've all made it. All right, I ask the services to close, then, this quorum check period and advertise the result, please. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, we will proceed to deliberations. First, we have the Vote Project No 450 / XV / 2. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Avelino Tavares, and I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u286	Mr. President, the draft vote is of the following content: « It passed on September 26, at the age of 85, Avelino Tavares, creator of the World of the Song (MC), a unique editorial project that, before and after April 25, was the space of presence of a “different song”, a song of resistance and struggle against “songishness”. Avelino Tavares was born in 1938, in Oliveira de Azemés, having moved to the Port, where he passed childhood. He studies in France, knows Europe and for the first time has contact with great names of French music— Georges Brassens, Serge Reggiani, Léo Ferré, Barbara,...—which later will bring to Porto, the city where he returns to take account of the Typography Alliance, a family company, from which he left for the music. It is in Porto that accompanies, by the newspapers, May 1968 and its impact on music that is heard outside of fascist Portugal, joining those who courageously try to bring the echo of this cultural revolution to Portugal. In December 1969, he launched the first issue of the World Song magazine, with Father Fanhais on the cover. The MC was the first Portuguese periodic publication to disseminate the remarkable songs of its time. Diluted between commercial songs, MC gave voice “to the balladers”, singers such as Zeca Afonso, José Mário Branco, or Sergio Godinho. In March 1973 the PIDE ( International Police and State Defense ) invaded the facilities of the Typography Alliance and seized part of the 30,000 copies of paragraph 34, which would arrive at the banks after 25 April. In the 1980s, MC expanded its activity to import and distribute alternative music discs excluded from commercial circuits. In 1981, Avelino Tavares opens, in the city centre, the MC Discotheque, starting as the producer of shows that brought to the port immortal names such as Paco de Lucía, Carlos Paredes, Gal Costa, Astor Piazzolla, Miles Davis, Pablo Milanés or Cesaría Évora. Avelino Tavares was the producer of several festivals, such as the Festival de Jazz do Porto, Praia Blues, the Interceltico do Porto, and so many more scattered throughout the country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret over the death of Avelino Tavares, a publicist and undisturbed programmer in the history of Portuguese culture and music, endowed with a capacity to dream and execute innovative projects that have torn horizons and put it in the history of the dissemination of music in Portugal, addressing the family and friends their heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u287	We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask you to accompany me in a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The general vote of Bill No 877 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — Includes children with both parents to develop professional activity in the criteria for access to free day care. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No. 349 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Defines the transitional regime for the regularization of sed buildings and similar to non-profit associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstentions from PS, IL, BE and L.]] The bill goes down to 13. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 868 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme for renegotiating credit contracts applicable to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, private institutions of social solidarity, non-profit associations and social economy entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 911 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Safety prevention and regularisation of home and similar buildings of non-profit associations. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PS and the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 567 / XV / 1. A, from arrive. This draft was not presented, but it is part of the vote script and is therefore voted on. We will then vote, in general, on the Resolution Project No 567 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government identify the housing real estate of the State which is being misused, the target of fraud or the need for rehabilitation works. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against PSD and CH were rejected.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 906 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the urgent conclusion of the inventory of state real estate with capacity for housing use as an essential measure to combat the housing crisis. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS, the CH and the CFP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We then generally vote for Law No 27 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — Ensures increased risk allowance for security forces and services professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Approves the increase in service and risk supplementation in security forces and services ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 298 / 2009 of 14 October 2009 and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 916 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Increases to 500 € the fixed component of the service supplement and risk in the security forces taken by the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police officers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 917 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Ensures increased service and risk supplementation and round supplementation of the personnel of the security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 875 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By valuing careers and strengthening the human and material resources of the Prison Guard Corps. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the NAP and IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 922 / XV / 2 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Full recovery of completed service time in defense of public school. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, for Bill No. 925 / XV / 2. a (CH) — Ensures the rights of teachers with regard to the valorisation of their career. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 714 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government review and amend the new management and recruitment scheme for teaching staff. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We will generally vote on Resolution Project No 883 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enhance workers in education and public school. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 899 / XV / 1. a (L) — By valuing and qualifying careers of technical assistant and operational assistant in schools and promoting measures to enable these resources to be adapted to the reality of each school. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 900 / XV / 1. a (L) — By binding, accounting for teaching time and end of the blockade in career progression. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 102 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the National Maritime Area Management and Planning Policy Bases. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, votes against PSD, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions against CH, PCP, IL and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira, Francisco César, João Azevedo Castro, Marta Freitas, Miguel Iglesias and Sérgio Ávila.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u288	Mr. President, to announce...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u289	Mr President, under the new Rules of Procedure, there is no longer any need to announce the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u290	I know, Mr President, but I may wish to announce that the PS Members who abstained in the vote that we have just made will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u291	All right, get registered. In accordance with the outcome of this vote, the proposal for a law is lower than 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 204 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Basic Law of the National Maritime Policy and Management for the Protection of Public Interest and Environmental Protection ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 230 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a moratorium that prevents mining in deep sea by 2050 and amends Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April 2014. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the CFP.]] The project goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 924 / XV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Amend the Law on the Basics of the National Maritime Policy and Management, which enshrines the promotion of the circular and sustainable blue economy as well as the promotion of renewable energy and energy autonomy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PS, PS, IL, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the CFP and the NAP.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 905 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — By fixing a moratorium on deep sea mining under the precautionary principle. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We will vote in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, Law No 95 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal regime relating to the qualification and training of motor vehicle inspectors. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the PSD and with abstentions from the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 849 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes a smartphone-free school at the first levels of education, amending Law No 51 / 2012 of 5 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the CH, IL, the PCP and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 921 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Affirms schools as a safe space free of all forms of discrimination and promotion of the healthy use of technologies, amending Law No 51 / 2012 of 5 September and Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L and abstentions against CH and the CFP.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 896 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and mobilising actions of the educational community on the use of technological devices in school context. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] The project goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 912 / XV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Value recreations, promote their pedagogical, playful and social role. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 591 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue the path and process of relocation of public entities and services. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL and PAN and with abstentions from CH, PCP, BE and L.]] The project goes down to 13. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 483 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government update the values of cost and transport aid to staff of the Public Administration. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 901 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government install the new central administration services within and create a programme for the gradual relocation of public services to these territories. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, IL and the NAP and abstentions against the CH, BE and L.]] We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 904 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national plan for decentralization and territorial decentralisation of public services and strengthens the labour rights of workers of displaced public services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, IL and the NAP and abstentions against the CH, BE and L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reopen public services closed in the territories of the country or of low population density. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 865 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Regularization of the Careers of the Officials of the Portuguese Cultural Centres of the Trucks I.P. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 834 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government value and dignify forest slags. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power on draft resolution No 199 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the valorisation and dignity of forest slags through the establishment of rules relating to their remuneration status and career progression. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members are followed. I ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u292	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Local Court of Lisbon — Judge 2, Case No 14063 / 22.4T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Paulo Sousa ( CH ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u293	Let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Madam Secretary, please read the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u294	The request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Judge Cable of Lisbon — Judge 2, Case No 14063 / 22.4T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Pessanha ( CH ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of the relevant cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u295	Let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have therefore concluded our votes. There is still a file that needs to be referred to, and I would ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to announce it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u296	Mr. President and Mr. Members, to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and has been admitted, Bill n. o 937 / XV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-04.u297	The next plenary session will be on 11 October, Wednesday, at 3 p.m., and the agenda consists of a single point of political declarations. Good afternoon to all and good Republican holiday. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 21 minutes.]]
