ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. There's no file reading, so let's go...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u2	To call on the Bureau, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u3	Please, on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u4	Mr President, we had to choose the opening of this session and the figure of the appeal to you, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, to say the following: last Saturday, several Members of the Republic were attacked, insulted and threatened at a public demonstration that took place at various points in the country. Mr President is the President of all Members and this Assembly of the Republic. It did not have one word of condemnation for acts which, in any other country, with any other Member State, deserve a clear condemnation. Mr President, if I may, I have here a phrase that I would like to read to you: "Participation is the complement of freedom. For and to be free is that we must join together to collectively decide on common issues[...] ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u6	« [... ] Attacking people, whatever they are, preventing them from speaking and defending their options is always a condemnable act. » Mr. President, do you know who said this for? Augusto Santos Silva, on his Twitter now network X, to condemn, without a doubt, that people had been assaulted, prevented from speaking and being, now in a literary manifestation, or in a political manifestation, or in a social manifestation. Jorge Galveias is 73 years old. On Saturday, he was kicked and crushed, along with Mr. Filipe Melo and Mr. Rui Paulo Sousa. by the President of Parliament, not a word. The one who should represent us all was silent...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u7	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u8	... in the face of attacks by extremist political forces, without respect for pluralism and democratic representativeness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u10	That is why, Mr President, it is very sad that, even after the condemnation of commentators, journalists, civil society people, political forces, Mr President, who represents us all, was silent in the face of the attack on three Members of this House, who were in a demonstration that was not a party, being legitimate that they were there. Mr President, everyone, including Mr President, condemned what happened to the Minister of the Environment as something to be condemned. We did the same, when the Minister of the Environment, in whom we do not see ourselves in a comma, was attacked with ink at a CNN conference (Cable News Network). We were the first to say that this was a condemnable act. Mr. President did the same. It is strange that ink is a condemnation, but punches on the face, kicks and distance do not deserve that condemnation on your part.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u12	Mr President, I think today you have the opportunity, before the country and before this House, to do what you have not done and to amend your hand, basically telling the country and Parliament that violence is never, in any case, acceptable...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u15	Mr President, if you cannot do this, it is because you are not President of all Members, it is because you are not President of all Members of this Parliament, and then you better leave your seat and become President of the Socialist Party bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u16	Mr President, violence is always reprehensible. Violence exercised in a democratic regime is illegal, unacceptable and condemned. We all have the right to organize the demonstrations we understand, to present the books we understand, regardless of their content, to hold the meetings we understand, and none of us can be the victim of attempts to prevent it. In order for democratic coexistence to be established and to proceed with the normality required by the Constitution and the law, it is also necessary for us to refrain from acts of provocation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u17	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u18	We must respect the events whose promoters, whose motives and objectives are far from ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u19	But who said that? Oh, my God! Who are you to say that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u20	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u21	We should be able to respect this because it is a condition of democratic coexistence, or by preventing others from manifesting themselves, nor by meddling in protests or demonstrations that clearly have nothing to do with us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u22	It's freedom! It's freedom and democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u23	Chiu!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u24	Chiu what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u25	in the same way that we must all respect — and we have respected, this has been the practice of the whole House — the demonstrations convened by its party, refraining from provocations, suggesting violence, suggesting improper acts, even when these demonstrations take place at the door of other political parties,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u26	Shame! They were assaults!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u27	... we must also refrain from acts of provocation in relation to the initiatives of others.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u28	‘Other’ who? Whose demonstration was that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u29	Is the dwelling just from the far left?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u30	Artificial? Oh, my God! They've been assaulted! [[Chiu!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u31	Chiu what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u32	One day he'll be assaulted too! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u33	...and the apology of hate, because hate is the opposite of democratic debate. [[CH protests and PS MP Eurico Brilliant Dias counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u34	What if you were to take a stand? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u35	As for the expression with which Mr Mimiced me yesterday at a press conference,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u36	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u37	... and that you didn't have the courage to repeat here, I just want to tell you that you must always bear in mind that, when you see me, you're not looking at the mirror. Thank you very much. [[P.P.P.P.P., P.P.P., BE, P.N. and L.]] So let's start our agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u38	Excuse me, Mr President, for asking you again, because, following your words...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u39	You wanted to make an appeal to the Bureau which was clearly not about the conduct of this work. I gave him this opportunity and I gave myself the duty to answer him. We're not going to continue now in this pong-pong,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u40	Come on! Let's go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u41	...because the honourable Member has already put forward his arguments, I have already presented my own, and the House is sovereign, having the essential elements of information...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u42	He's got nothing! It's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u43	...to be able to evaluate your conduct and mine. So, let's go to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u44	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u45	Do you ask the honourable Member to speak for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u46	It is that Mr President is clearly ill-informed, and is ill-informed because one of the Members, Mr Filipe Melo, has also received an invitation from the platform to be present at that event.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u47	Exactly! You have to apologize! You have to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u48	There's no provocation! There's no provocation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u49	So I don't know if Mr. President thinks that when a woman runs a minisage and is raped, it's her fault.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u50	Oh, man! This is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u51	I don't know if Mr. President has that opinion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u52	Mr, do not enter offensive statements,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u53	...but we don't. We don't have one! And we think we have a right...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u54	...and you don't need to raise your voice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u55	We found...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u56	You don't need to raise...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u57	But I raise my voice whenever I want, because I am an elected member!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u58	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u59	So if I want to raise the voice, increase! If I want to raise my voice, increase! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I am a member elected by the country! I am an elected member, just like everyone else! And I am as elected as Mr. President is elected. So I raise the voice whenever I want! That I know, there is no limit of soundbits here in Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u60	That's all I'm missing now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u61	... nor is that in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. So I'm sorry, Mr. President. If Mr President thinks that angry Members, a 73-year-old member assaulted in a demonstration, it is a provocation, although we have been invited, Mr President, I will tell you something, honestly: Mr President is no longer, this bench is no longer,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u62	...in part of the country is no longer. I do not recognize you as President of the Assembly of the Republic... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...and I'm leaving, because that's why I'm here. [[PS protests.]] [[Shame!]] [[At the moment, the CH Parliamentary Group has come out of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u63	So you guys never come back now, is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u64	So let's start our agenda. The first point concerns the general assessment of Bill Nos 349 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Defines the transitional regime for the regularization of home and similar buildings of non-profit associations and 868 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme for renegotiating credit contracts applicable to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, private institutions of social solidarity, non-profit associations and social economy entities, together with draft Resolution No 911 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Safety prevention and regularisation of home and similar buildings of non-profit associations. To submit Bill No. 349 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr Hugo Oliveira. [[Pause.]] We'll wait a minute for the House to return to important matters. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for silence so that we can hear the speaker. Mr. Deputy, you can start, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We were on the fateful day 13 January 2018 in the Cultural Association, Recreation and Humanitarian of Vila Nova da Rainha, in the Town Hall of Tondela, when the one who was just a Swedish game turned into a nightmare with irreparable losses — 8 fatal victims, who would later pass to 11, and about half a hundred wounded. Jorge Dias, the president of this group, was accused and condemned for an offence of serious negligence, in a total of 11 years and 9 months, in a legal cluster, at 5 years, but with suspended penalty, in addition to the compensation that he was sentenced to pay to the families of the victims and to the Social Security Institute, a total of 26 000 €. The association did not have a license to use. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this could be the president of a community of your parish or council. For decades, as a result of the efforts of many of the associates of thousands of collectivities in our country, these equipment have been built, creating support networks and essential services to combat the isolation of places, in associations sometimes built by arms and at the expense of these associates. These spaces were idealized as living spaces in the localities, in the parish, in the municipalities of our country. We are aware that the existence of many of these associations is very prior to any territorial management instrument, and that many of them were not identified or licensed, at the time, under those plans or instruments. The evolution of the legal system of spatial planning has brought difficulty to legalize these spaces, some built in places where today the PDM(municipal directors' plans) do not allow for construction. In the times in which we live, when the time factor conditions our lives, it is increasingly difficult for citizens to put themselves at their disposal, and even because of much carolism, we continue to have association leaders who risk every day for the benefit of the community. When we talk about the need to legalize, we are talking about differentiating processes of each territory, in which situations can be as disparate as a simple partial legalization of a flag of a collectivity before those who are the territorial management instruments. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, clubs and sports associations cannot sometimes even apply for support programmes because they do not have legal spaces. Thus, what is proposed in this bill is the creation of a transitional regime for the legalization of these spaces, similar to those previously approved for the legalization of pig husbandry and, subsequently, industrial pavilions, which created conditions for these legalizations in transitional regimes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a matter of little political debate, it is a matter of action and of safeguarding all those who, in the country outside, every day, make their time and energy available to the community. I end with a quote from Winston Churchill: “It’s useless to say ‘ we’re doing our best. ’ We need to do what is necessary. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u66	To submit Bill No. 868 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u67	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by welcoming the PSD for bringing this issue to debate, because it is of the most elementary justice, given that the increase in cost of living and inflation is also reaching the tertiary sector, which, together with the expenditure on its building, is seen by the arms with the increase in interest rates and the need to renegotiate the credits it has allocated to its activity. In fact, this policy of rising interest rates and the risk of the wave of insolvency not only affects small and medium-sized enterprises in our country but also effectively the tertiary sector and social activity, in particular NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), which, in spite of being State-retarded activities in support of families and at the moment are to be'smoothing through the seams' with requests for help, which have been received by the bank is an increase in interest rates, while the government's's blow to the side'. It is not acceptable that nothing should be done when, in the first half alone, the bank had record profits, which are so high, that they paid 58 % of the entire budget of the Ministry of Economics this year. Nor is it acceptable for the government, which is already benefiting from the tax jackpot due to inflation, to increase its tax revenue by collecting stamp taxes by renegotiating claims from social sector entities and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the seriousness of this situation, what the NAP proposes is precisely to create an exceptional regime for renegotiating credit contracts, whether for social sector entities, for their role in supporting the most vulnerable families and the fundamental activities of our society, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose fundamental role for the economy we cannot neglect, which thus obliges the bank to renegotiate credits whenever there is a significant increase in the rate of effort and prevents any bank commission from charging for these renegotiations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also propose that the State should not be able to benefit from these renegotiations and, therefore, that all renegotiations in this area be exempt from seal tax. At the same time, it is important that none of these measures apply to companies that may in any way have excessive profits, which receive subsidies with activities that are environmentally unsustainable, that do not have good work practices or that call into question human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u68	To present the Resolution Project No 911 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is widely recognized the role that collectivities have with communities — a secular intervention, pioneering in education and training, culture and sport, in play, recreation and leisure activities, a unique intervention in the plan of inclusion and cohesion. They are an example in the exercise of democratic principles, in the promotion of participation and in cooperation and solidarity. It is never too much said that the popular associative movement has more than 30,000 collectives and associations, led by some 425 000 volunteer leaders and about 3 million associates. We are talking about a broad popular mass of those who associate around the collectivities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u71	over the years, there have been warnings for the various worrying situations, that highlight the regularization and safety of associative headquarters and related facilities. Many of the existing facilities have been donated by people who have already died, being difficult, or impossible, to obtain documents. Many were built by their associates, raised by the wrist. They tried to maintain and improve the conditions of operation and safety. This has always been a design of its leaders and associates, without ever having any government intervention to support the collectives. And this is a central issue in this debate. In view of the role they play, the activities they dynamize, the importance they have for the community where they are inserted, the government cannot go beyond this problem as if it were nothing with you. It is, yes, with the government. The government has responsibilities, yes. Therefore, the CFP, in its initiative, recommends that the Government establish an integrated programme for the prevention of the safety and regularization of home and similar buildings of non-profit associations, in conjunction with municipalities, that : consider extraordinary requirements for application, instruction, weighting and evaluation and regularization of situations with disabilities in safety and legal frameworks, in particular in existing territorial management instruments ; create financial and technical support lines for the tasks of studies, projects and adaptation works or changes that appear as a condition for the intended regularization, depending on the weighting of the specific conditions of each association; and determine the conditions for cooperation with the most diverse bodies of the central administration and institutions for the protection of security conditions and activities developed by the associations, giving priority to the role of municipalities and seeking to unburricate the regularization processes. I would also like to mention some considerations on the proposal put forward by the PSD, because what is brought to discussion is not what is necessary to solve the problems of collectives and associations. It says it wants to simplify, but it maintains a set of requirements that may be insurmountable, and I refer to some concrete aspects. With regard to the framework in territorial management instruments, it seems to us that it is possible to find a solution compatible with the activity of these equipment. They may, however, have problems with the specific conditions for licensing of construction. But the proposal that is brought to nothing helps,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u73	... since it continues to require a set of requirements associated with the instruction which are imputed to any individual, there is no such simplification here. There is also one aspect which causes us some question, which is related to the following: the proposal which is put forward establishes a two-year transitional regime. This regime is questionable. If it's not fulfilled, what happens? Is this activity closed? Are you condemning collectives to extinction? Is this how the PSD wants to protect the activity of these associations?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u74	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u75	We're talking about institutions with an activity that goes far beyond these two years. Therefore, what must be required is in fact a clear programme, with intervention by the Government, which will ensure the conditions for the safety and regularisation of the premises, but above all this activity so important for the communities where they are inserted. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u76	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, this transitional regime that brings us today has worthy intentions, since it mentions making life easier for associations, non-profits, cultural, sporting and recreational charities, which, for us, and for many of those who are here, are the genuine expression of will and the way to live our populations. It also tries to do something that is very expensive to the Liberal Initiative, which is to simplify, decomplicate, decomplicate situations that have been complicated in good rigour because over the years the State has produced dozens of instruments of planning, regulations, rules and processes that have become almost impossible to understand and therefore almost impossible to comply with by these entities. Unfortunately, the PSD itself succumbs to the national disease to enter the « complicometer », because the requirements set out in Article 5. the request for legalization are, themselves, a too long and complex list. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to simplify, simplify, do not simplify to complicate immediately. For this reason, we believe that this bill is those that will gain a lot from the discussion in specialty. We can say the same about the NAP project, which is one more of those proposals that shows the NAP to be PAN, because it does not resist showing that banishmentist vein and letting its agenda twist and distort what are good ideas. It is a good idea to give micro, small and medium-sized enterprises the possibility of renegotiating credits, at this time when interest rates are causing enormous difficulties to many of these companies, but it is a good idea broken down by such banned tics, because it aims to limit access to these renegotiations... [[NAP protests.]] ... not only because of the type of industry to which companies belong—so for the NAP, the companies they do not like can go bankrupt at will, the workers who are there must be second persons—,... [[NAP protests.]] ... but also depending on the type of operation that the financing has financed, it passes redundancy. [[NAP protests.]] For the NAP, internationalisation operations — Portugal does not need — consolidation operations — Portugal does not need — and even, I quote, « operations related to investments and activities related to fossil fuels, including downstream uses ». Uses downstream?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u78	They need a lot of help!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u79	It is only to be said, Mrs Deputies, that the credit for the gas oil van in the corner bakery cannot be renegotiated either because « uses downstream» are also the same. [[NAP protests.]] It is not enough to vote against, but it is certainly enough to do specialty work, because it seems that there are those who distinguish the difficulties why businesses and people pass by according to what they think of their activities or positions. [[NAP protests.]] We're not like that. The Liberal Initiative does not discriminate against them. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u80	For an intervention on behalf of the PS, Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Regardless of minor disagreements that may exist between us and the PSD and PCP parliamentary groups in terms of specific regulatory solutions to reach a regime for regularization of home buildings and similar facilities of non-profit associations, there is something of fundamental importance that unites us. No one can be indifferent to the problematic situation that the initiatives in question identify and bring the debate, in search of a solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u82	All right! Will you go there...?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u83	No one will be warned about this associative reality doubting that this is a complex and sensitive matter. On the one hand, it contains secular forms of the communities themselves, creating popular organizations to collectively take place in practices of culture, leisure, social and humanitarian intervention, of sport, and it can even be said, in certain situations, that those who do not have access to these collectives can be a social exclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u85	Fighting isolation and moving populations around common interests, they are an obvious factor of social cohesion, contributing to a whole people being more solidarity, more worshipful and happier.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u87	On the other hand, empirical perception is that the number of popular associations that move from unlicensed premises and other facilities for this purpose, in compliance with urban, environmental or safety rules, will be enormous. And these built spaces are indispensable as meeting points, operating centers, connfluences of the congregator spirit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u89	We are thus, as we said, in the light of sensitive matter, that we should be motivated by regularizing action, and we cannot continue to ignore the problem, until, by the exposed contours which it has, it is not possible, in consciousness, to say that it is unknown from the public authorities, exactly those who have the burden on the matter to intervene, finding the right regime to overcome it. If we know how to identify and accept the essentials to be met, i.e. to find the legal-normative path that supports a regularizing solution, we will only have to gain if we have all, especially in what the bill has to be specifically regulatory, to leave still open a prior and preliminary work of clarification, simplification and improvement of concepts, instruments and operational rules, convening, for this more thorough work, the entities involved in this regulatory complex — hence, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the National Association of Freguesias, the Portuguese Confederation of Culture Communities, Recreation and Sports and the governmental areas involved — with them articulating a proposal, because it is not improved, of special regime for regulating buildings and similar to non-profit associations. thus, the present initiatives would benefit only from this work. What needs to be guaranteed is that no one who is in the space of a collective, whether in a meeting, whether in theatre, music, dance, whether in sports practice, whether in conference or lecture, whether in a Swedish game or domino, doubts whether or not he is in a space that meets the law. This is the useful and virtuous effect that we are called upon to fulfil: wherever we are participating in association activities, we are sure that we are not outside the law, because we were able to do our work, making regularization possible. It is therefore time to act. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u90	I keep my question: will you go from there...?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u91	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u92	Mr President, allow me, before I go to the subject, that health care for your intervention just recently and tell you, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, that we fully recognize you in your reply. And now, I also wanted to say that the choreography that the Arrival had to leave the Chamber, the script that the Arrival brought to this session was already written even before its reply and it is not imputable to him, because Mr Ventura had already warned the social media bodies that would be at 4 hours in Campo de Ourique.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u93	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u94	And, therefore, what we saw was just another ridiculous episode of a prolonged spectacle of bad taste in which the arrival has attempted to transform parliamentary intervention and its political intervention, which we rejected and therefore wanted to greet Mr President for his reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u96	But, going to the theme of the draft laws and resolutions that we are discussing, when we talk about the association movement, the popular movement, the movement of non-profit associations, we are talking about tens of thousands of collectives, tens of thousands of associations that have an intense cultural, recreational, sporting activity, which is essential for the social life of the territories. And it is true that many of the facilities of these associations, particularly in rural areas — but not only — are inherited, were built by their partners, as has been said here, often a product of effort, of the militant commitment of the associates, and are not licensed or were built before the territorial management instruments or lack of regularization, and this is a problem that puts many difficulties on the associations and even gives rise to dramatic episodes, such as the one already invoked here, of Tondela. And therefore we are in favour of the intention to create regularisation mechanisms for these associations and also support mechanisms, including public, state support, adaptation and change of spaces, so that they can comply with the safety rules, so that they can be adapted to the environmental criteria for the management of the territory and so that they can be licensed. And we believe that these two dimensions are essential: allowing a regularisation process, but also supporting the adaptation of the facilities themselves. Such processes have already existed for economic activities, there are also in the field of housing, as we know, particularly in urban areas of illegal genesis, and there must be a process that is simple for associations from that point of view. The CFP has also already warned about the complexity, the barriers, the difficulties, which are put by the terms in which the PSD proposal is drawn up. We need a simple, effective regime that does not create difficulties. And with regard to what the NAP here proposes about interest, we know that associations also see themselves, like families, arm with the rise of interest, and here, what is necessary is to charge the bank these costs. And, yes, we are in favour of renegotiating the cost-free appropriations, compulsory renegotiating of the cost-free appropriations, without committees for the associations — of course, as must also be the case for families — so that the effort rate is not exceeded because, if it is inappropriate for families, it is also unacceptable for many of these associations. And we are therefore in favour of this being taken into account. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u97	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u98	Mr President, Dear colleagues : The theme that the PSD brings to us today, and also the other parties—PAN and PCP, which join it in proposals—is a very important issue, because the collectives, recreational, cultural and sporting associations, throughout this country, are the backbone of our cohesion, of a capacity to bring culture throughout the country and depend on the efforts of many people in this country outside, and we owe them a lot. I have already seen very good amateur theatre, for example in associations of these, certainly amateur theatre much better, with more truth and feeling, than the last story I was given here, even recently. I wanted to say that the proposal that the PSD brings is, however, still very complicated for what many associations are able to do. There are many requirements and many institutions to consult, and we should have a national counter to help the associations to make this license, in addition to we should have affordable lease programs, as we have for shops with history, or for families, for associations. Many are losing their thirst. And more than that — as in a proposal for a budget amendment to the Book, even in the last budget — so that some of these sites can become real points of culture, in houses of creation, with the support of the Ministry of Culture. Even so, it is a proposal that deserves debate and that it deserves to be accompanied by others in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u99	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am not going to contradict what I said just now in the rostrum that this is not an issue for a pure political debate. I just wanted to give you two or three notes. First of all, I refer to the broad consensus I have in this Chamber on a matter of concern to the collectives of our council. And, therefore, this broad consensus must be in some way on our part, and we must note it and say that we are, of course, available. I was listening to Mr.Deputy of the Socialist Party and, in fact, we can hear the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the federation of collectivities, the National Association of Freguesias too, of course, because they are directly closer to these groups and they will have the opportunity to pronounce themselves. But I also want to note that this regime which is presented is a regime which, above all, transmits the one that has been a path already made, as I said recently, in pig husbandry — although it is not analogous — but also in industrial pavilions, to comply with the rules of spatial planning. Simplification of procedures, and it must exist, must also not allow the planning of the territory to be harmed in any way. Therefore, the balance is necessary, so that this path has been made in the previous regimes and basically applies here in the same way. Could it be simpler? I think it could be, but we would probably not have the entities that were mentioned here, but perhaps the Architects' Order would ask why we have such a simplification that it might call into question the one that is the planning of the territory. Therefore, the balance must be guaranteed in simplification, in order to ensure that there is this legalization, but also that there is no exaggeration that questions the ordering. So there is a need for this balance, and I wanted to note this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u101	For a new intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, this time Mrs Vera Braz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We could not fail to raise some considerations about the NAP project because we deserve full consideration of what is our business fabric and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99.9 % of this business fabric. But, of course, also, because it is not enough to raise a flag of good intentions and then we present a project which is a tremendous confusion, since it is based on diplomas which are all directed towards the consumer, to the common citizen, which, of course, deserves increased protection, in which measures have been directed to preserve what is an essential good, which is permanent housing itself, and which, therefore, require greater legislation, in particular in the prevention of non-compliance, or even the creation of new measures, such as to support credit — who has credit for housing — and which enable them to cope with the unbearable increases in these same benefits. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u103	But also because of the various limitations that have already been mentioned here. As regards companies, Mrs Deputies, as stated in the explanatory statement, several measures have been taken to meet all the needs of companies at each time, since the layoff, since the moratoriums, which have met the needs of companies and have allowed them to resume, as normal as possible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u104	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u105	... and with a very important thing, which is keeping teams, which are a very important factor for the resumption of their activities. Madam Member, we must also not forget that these companies have access to measures such as the Capitalisation and Resilience Fund, have access to banking lines with support from the State, with guarantees from the State, which enable them in particular to cope with situations of capitalisation, treasury, investment and thus to meet all these needs that they currently have. But because it is also important for us that companies can evolve and develop, a new measure has been adopted, still recently, which is a line for new companies to support the training of their workers, as regards their internationalisation, which will undoubtedly be important.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u106	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. I said, that it will be important to strengthen your activity and, with this robustness, will certainly also contribute to our development, to our resilience as a country and to our economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u108	To close the debate on behalf of the PSD, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In order to conclude this debate, I would like to point out that I could urge you here. Members support our initiative, but it was clear in this House that support is being given to the collectives throughout our country. And I am sure, too, that this is a first step, is the way, as has already been said: to listen to entities, to simplify — if anything else is necessary — but to ensure that this first step may be the beginning, so that there can be legalization of these spaces and that does not happen at the beginning of the intervention, I had the opportunity to say. And this is a shared step in a consensus in this Chamber. And I want to record this, because it is important for the whole country, because we are elected in electoral circles, in the whole country, and this whole country deserves our support. Therefore, I give you only this final note that in each of the collectives, in each of the places where this difficulty exists, each of the partners, but above all the leaders, will feel, on the day we have the approval of this bill, a great relief to be able to legalize their spaces to ensure their preservation, but also of all the people who attend the spaces of the collectives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u110	We are thus at the end of point 1. Point 2 of our agenda consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No 567 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government identify the housing real estate of the State which is being misused, the target of fraud or the need for rehabilitation works and the Resolution Project No 906 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the urgent conclusion of the inventory of state real estate with capacity for housing use as an essential measure to combat the housing crisis, which was dragged with it. Clearly, the authors of the project that motivated this schedule are not present, so we have two hypotheses. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic allow us in an extensive reading of Article 66. the paragraph 2, which we shall conduct the debate by reference to the draft submitted by the NAP. I would say that fairness — it is a bit difficult to find the Portuguese word that corresponds, therefore, to balance, to political cordiality — would lead us not to enter a debate whose proposer is not present and to turn to point 3 of the agenda. But I wanted to know whether this interpretation would take the support of the parliamentary groups, or at least not the opposition. [[Pause.]] So we move on to point 3 of our agenda. [[Pause.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is asking for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u111	Mr President, I am sorry, but in view of the limitations on the agenda of the only representatives of the Party, I would only appeal to this House to be able to discuss this draft resolution, because if the House has chosen to once again not to participate in this debate constructively and democraticly and to follow the path of populism, as has been customary to us, I do not think the parties that have been constructively penalized by this House should be penalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u112	So to have all the information, Article 66. the, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which is the one which, from our point of view, can help us to resolve this issue, says: "When an agenda requested by a parliamentary group is subsequently removed from the agenda, at its request, the schedules made in conjunction with this initiative at the Conference of Leaders remain valid. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, it is possible to understand that the proposed parliamentary group has withdrawn its agenda, since it is not present here to debate it and therefore the NAP, who has seen the scheduling of its initiative to be agreed at the Conference of Leaders, by activation of the drag mechanism, has the right to present its initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u113	What about the other project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u114	Therefore, if my usual reading is necessary, according to which we must comply with the Rules of Procedure whenever there is no consensus between us to adapt it to a precise circumstance, I would say that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the right to defend her project and the ladies and gentlemen. Members who understand have the right to speak about it. That, at least, enables you to do so. Members who have already prepared the intervention for this point will not see their efforts. Then, with this understanding of the House, I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, to present draft resolution No 906 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the urgent conclusion of the inventory of state real estate with capacity for housing use as an essential measure to combat the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u115	Mr President, I thank you for your interpretation, because, in fact, work in democracy — and redundancy — does much more work than merely populist and antidemocratic opposition. We are available here to collaborate and to make our contributions obviously constructive. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, on Saturday, thousands of people went out on the street asking for more housing, asking for better living conditions, joining their voices to say that there are, in fact, people in Portugal who are living very badly, who are losing their homes, who cannot afford to pay the rent, who cannot afford the service of the house. We have students who stop studying, and who, as some posters say, renew the contract with their parents’ home and adjust their life plans. We have families and workers who can't afford the house and teachers who live in vans. This is the picture of housing in Portugal: a picture today, but which needed answers for yesterday. Although we have had a More Housing package, this was clearly insufficiently discussed in this House and has manifestly insufficient answers for families, but there is a measure that has been successively discussed in this House and claimed, which is that of the real estate inventory and the public housing stock. However, this measure is structural so that the State can set an example and, instead of seeking to clear the private heritage, place its public heritage in the public service and in the service of the community. He began by recalling that in 2007 a diploma was approved for the realization of the State real estate inventory, with the aim of identifying those who are qualified for housing use. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 16 years have passed — I repeat, 16 years — since there was this approval and there has not yet been any conclusion. Now, this time is as messed up as you stretch out your hand asking for money, not seeing how much money we have in our pants pocket, and then demanding others to pay for this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u117	Also in 2020 it was planned to create a State real estate stock exchange for housing and we still have no concrete results. More quickly we talk about building or even using private heritage than knowing what state heritage, who is using it and how it is being used. [[Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto applauded.]] That is why the NAP proposes a very simple exercise: to make this inventory, first look at the pocket, which is the exercise that the Portuguese are doing and, unfortunately, that is an increasingly empty pocket.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u118	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a 12-storey building, one of the most sought after areas in the country, on 5 October, here in Lisbon [[Right now, the speaker displayed an image.]] At the door of this building, people sleep homeless; 15 minutes from there, there is a university, where many students have to share room to continue studying; there work many people who have to live away from their jobs because they do not have a nearby housing offer. This 12-storey building, one of the most sought after areas in the country, could house 100, 200 people, some students, some middle class, but has been abandoned for 5 years. The owner is no speculator; the owner is the Portuguese State. Like this one, there are thousands for this country outside. I say 'thousands' and not a specific number, because you don't know that number! In fact, the state doesn't even know how many buildings it has! In the last report of the Court of Auditors there are three different numbers of three different sources: in the State Real Estate Information System there are 9500 ; in the Building Registry database there are 18 500, almost twice ; in the Tax and Customs Authority database there are 62 000. The State cannot even agree on a definition of what is a property. Some state buildings have been abandoned for so long that the State does not know that it still has them. This incompetence has a cost that measures the price of houses. in these buildings that the state abandoned could live people; they could live young people, who today do not leave their parents' homes; they could live teachers and doctors, who refuse jobs in the most expensive cities for not being able to pay the rent; they could live families, who cannot grow up because they do not have room to do so. There are buildings, land, old schools, abandoned barracks, which could increase the supply of housing in Portugal, including in these most sought-after areas of the country. in a housing crisis which is, above all, a crisis of lack of supply, it is absolutely immoral that the State continues to have thousands of abandoned buildings, that it does not take into account, that it does not account and that, in many cases, it does not even know that there are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u121	It is that much more than to invent real estate — which is something that is needed — they need to be used. Repeat, use them! If the State does not know, if the State is not able to do so, then who knows: the builders, the promoters, the PCP,... [[Rice from Mr Rui Rocha.]] ...to anyone. The important thing is to make use of these buildings. Otherwise, what legitimacy does the State have to tell the private how to use their buildings, when the State itself gives its real estate the worst possible use it can make, which is none? It's total abandonment! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u122	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Topa Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing only one project, the draft resolution of the NAP, which aims, in essence, to recommend to the Government the urgent conclusion of the inventory of state real estate with capacity for housing use, as an essential measure to combat the housing crisis. If I address only the NAP today, it is because, in fact, the NAP was the only party that came to the game to defend its draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u125	First of all, I think we should say the following. Who hears us there at home will think: "But are these gentlemen discussing the need of the state to know their heritage and to know their state of conservation? Oh, my God! There must be some mistake! » No, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not it. What we are doing here is recommending to the government that you know your heritage, make an inventory and evaluate your state of conservation. This is what we're discussing here and that's all. But at a time when we talk about the More Habitat program, I think it is fair to ask this: what conditions does the State have, which thus manages its heritage, to be the great promoter of public housing? At least we should be prepared with what we already have today, on account of our being able to reach an absolutely strange situation. It is that, within one of these days, since the diploma of the More Housing programme has been promulgated and it seems that the municipal chambers can take a coercive possession of the dwellings, there can be a risk that, at a certain point, the municipal chambers will be taking possession of buildings from the central state. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] It was therefore good for the State to do this work. I must also say, to the benefit of the truth, that the Government itself has already acknowledged this need. It acknowledged the fact that it included this inventory, in particular the development of a real estate management platform in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) : it is the TD-C17 Sub-Investment - i01.02. Well, here we have two problems again. The first problem is that I've known him for a long time. Since 2007 we know that we are dealing with this, it was supposed to be ready in 2021, but that deadline has failed. Apparently, according to the General State Account, delivered today in this House, it seems that the goal is also delayed by 2024, but we will check this out. However, this demonstrates another thing: that many of the PRR measures, many of the PRR funds, are not, after all, to recover the pandemic measures, but they are for the State to fulfill what it had promised to do and did not fail to allocate resources. [[PSD applause.]] So with these small examples, with these small measures, we realize what's going on. In fact, I believe that this failure of the State to respond to these matters has much to do with the lack of benefit and the lack of recognition of the State of its most qualified professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u127	He remembered only one aspect: it is that a superior technician today has, at the entrance to the career of superior technician, a salary of €1111 — it is easy to fix, are only a few — which corresponds to a net order of about €900. It is not surprising, therefore, that the most qualified young people are those who emigrate because, in fact, the State is not giving them attractive conditions. What we have heard for doctors, what we have heard for teachers, is absolutely transversal at this time to the entire Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u128	The State budget is already next month. We have to take care of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u129	There's one last look I'd like to mention. As the Court of Auditors points out, we are talking about the inventory, but the inventory is the first of the first steps, it is the most basic issue of real estate management. What we should be able to do, as a State, as owners, was objectively managed, was to have a real relationship between the various ministries, and only in this way can we respond to the needs at each moment. Therefore, when the NAP asks us whether we are willing to recommend to the Government that the Olympic minimums be met, the answer is 'yes', we recommend that the Government do the least. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u130	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The importance of the coming debate, which had been scheduled for this debate, is the issue of housing, which we see — is to abandon the debate. But this should not prevent us from discussing the proposal that had been dragged by the NAP and which has its merit, and should be considered in this Chamber. Indeed, the merit is this: it is to say that something must be done that the Court of Auditors has asked for a long time ago, which is the inventory of the state heritage, that it is to recommend to the Government to do something that we have already recommended, while the Assembly of the Republic, when we voted on the draft Free Resolution on the same subject. What the PS managed to withdraw from this draft Free Resolution was the next step, which is the conversion plan of the uses of these buildings. Since one minute does not give any more, let me concentrate on emptyed quarters — there are so many in the center of cities and, nowadays, they have no military function at all, in the kind of reality that we have in the 21st century — which can be student residences; they can be incubators for associations, for companies, for collectivities; they can be places for telework space for those who do not have conditions at home to work, but also do not want to cross the city, and do not need to do, to go to work on the other side of the city; they can be daycare; they can have roofs of solar panels to supply the electric buses that we need in our cities. It could be a lot. We need new ideas for these old houses. Let us never forget that this was what was done with this building where we did a Parliament, and that it was not before. That's where we have to go for inspiration to do something with the state heritage, before someone arrives and privatizes him and it's all for great lofts, to be bought by the millionaires who are looking for us. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u132	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Rui Cruz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today draft resolution No 906 / XV / 2. a (PAN), since the arrival does not value this area and therefore is absent from the debate. I would therefore like to congratulate the NAP on the draft resolution presented here. I would like to begin by commenting on the words of PSD Member António Topa Gomes who said that in the relationship between the Socialist Party and the Government and the municipal chambers, in particular, there may be coercive possession of the municipalities in relation to the state heritage. Well, nothing more wrong, because if there is a time when there is an open relationship, of passage and transfer of competence to municipalities is with this government, and it is the Socialist Party that is making this understanding, which never happened with previous governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]] And there is no complex to pass buildings, health centers and schools from Paço Land to the Real Country. So the PSD missed an opportunity because we all know that what never happened is happening. Also in relation to the PRR, says the PSD that a lot of housing money is being affected. Well, in the committee of Community funds, what we have seen is the PSD saying that the funds are little for this area. Many funds have been affected, fortunately, and we are going to have many houses built in partnership with the municipal chambers, distributed throughout the territory, and I think this is important for all of us. The important thing is that they are actually built, despite all the constraints we know and that there are many — lack of businesses, lack of labour — but that will not prevent us from having this objective achieved by 2026. As we all know, for this government the right to housing is one of the pillars of the social state and the government has undertaken to create a public housing park at affordable costs that responds to all families and people in difficulty in accessing housing, assuming as one of the social rights their universal vocation. The Government is implementing a national strategy to make public property available for housing purposes, thereby strengthening the public housing park or with public support. Thus, it is guaranteeing access to housing as a universal right to all those who may be experiencing greater difficulty in its access. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u134	The Government has assigned to the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation (IHRU) the task of carrying out an important inventory - we recognize - that it should cover the private property of the State, the indirect public administration of the State and the business sector of the State that are for housing use. On the other hand, this inventory should also consider public buildings that are returned or available, including land whose conditions or characteristics allow them to be assigned to the creation of housing, either directly or through conversion or construction process. The basic law of housing has already established the duty of the State to use the public built heritage as a means of ensuring the fulfilment of its social function to ensure universal access to housing. This resource is extensible to housing programmes intended for leases, promoting the effective use of returned public-owned dwellings. Thus, and within the framework of its programme, the Government is implementing the plan for the rehabilitation of public assets for affordable leases. The aim is to strengthen the housing park with public support and thus contribute to the guarantee of the right to housing. in this sense, it was also created an electronic platform to promote the reporting of information. In the medium term, the Government intends to place 15 000 State fires on the market at affordable prices. At present, we have more than 10 000 houses identified for the promotion of affordable lease, of which about 7000 are already in execution and 3000 are under consideration. By concluding, without any doubt, the government has already been mobilising the ever-increasing state-backed heritage for housing. This is a gradual, progressive and necessarily prolonged transformation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : With regard to the draft resolution of the NAP, which we have on the table, it is obvious that this inventory is relevant. In fact, from our point of view, it should have been done a long time ago and, therefore, sin is late. Obviously, it is important to know the reality of the state's heritage so that public policies can be built around it. I believe that, in this debate — and we have heard practically all the parties, although we have not heard all of them — we realize that we have absolutely immediate and urgent problems to resolve in terms of housing and, however, we still have no answers that are effective from that point of view. Recently, as has already been mentioned, we have had the approval of the Most Housing and we all realize that, in fact, the Most Housing does not blight, at nothing, the interests that have led us to the crisis in which we are currently, namely the real estate interests, and that there is nothing there that responds to the problem of speculation, which stops speculation and effectively limits the very high prices of incomes and houses for purchase. There is nothing in this programme that solves this problem, much less immediately. Yesterday, we had the news that Antonio Costa finally realized that the regime of unusual residents would be to end. First of all, Mr Prime Minister realizes that this is too late and, secondly, realizes this situation when it was this regime that allowed our cities today to be voted on to real estate speculation, with absolutely unacceptable and unconformable prices for any citizen who works in the cities of our country. So we always go back to it: the Socialist Party can make several ads, it can make a lot of propaganda, but what it can't do is respond to the problem of housing with immediate proposals that quickly control prices. And we're talking about controlling prices because we need courage to effectively control the problem where it is, but that's what we don't see, neither by the Socialist Party, nor by the right. There is zero willingness to control prices, to put ceilings on incomes, to put the bank to pay what it has been earning in recent years—as it has never profited in the last decades, in our country—, also at the cost, there, of the credits to housing and the interest that have been growing. Therefore, in the debates on housing it is important to realize, indeed, what the State has and what it can offer, and it is important that public supply increases — this is absolutely essential, although there are proposals in this Parliament of parties such as the PSD, which aim to facilitate the alienation of state heritage, which is a bit strange in the current scenario, but it is not enough to look, as the NAP project does, at the question of State heritage. We need to go much further and in a way that is much more effective and much faster. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u137	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, which supposedly deals with housing issues, our first word is here to greet the thousands and thousands of people who, last Saturday, on 30 days, in dozens of cities from north to south of the country, raised their voice in defense of the right to housing, said "lower incomes, raise wages" and demanded another policy in which priority is the lives of people and not the profit of banks. [[PCP applause.]] What they claim are concrete responses — more public housing, income control and benefits — and not the demagogy and cheap provocation that comes back and half bring us, also in this House, scorning the despair of hundreds of thousands of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u140	The starting point for this debate and for these proposals under consideration is the famous inventory of the state's housing heritage, which should have been made for years and in constant updating. The central issue of this debate is why the inventory has not yet been made. For years this measure has been identified, decided, approved, in force, but time has passed and inventory has not advanced! In fact, this debate has even this unusual mark to appreciate now one of two initiatives which, in their explanatory statements, clarify and demonstrate to the details why they had nothing to be approved. They speak of Decree-Law No 82 / 2020, which expressly determines and regulates the realization of the inventory of the state's real estate with capacity for housing use; they speak of the Public Real Estate Information and Management System and of the resources allocated from PRR funds to finance this intervention; they speak of Decree-Law No 280 / 2007, which establishes the legal regime of public real estate and which defines its inventory programme—they speak of this! They point to the government for the lack of realisation with concrete measures to comply with what is expressly provided for in the law. Conclusion? This is resolved by a recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic. This is the solution that the NAP — indeed, as it has arrived — offers us. [[NAP protests.]] If you are in the law, if the government promises, but does not comply, the Assembly recommends! And in the meantime, public wealth continues to crumble, people are still homeless, and bank profits continue to increase. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that there is even one who is calling for time to be wasted, but there is no need to waste any more time. We must not waste any more time on discussions and proposals that do not respond to the dramatic situation of millions of people in this country. Above all, it is necessary not to waste more time on the measures that effectively respond to this social emergency in housing: to curb the increase in income and benefits, to protect the house of a household, to promote investment worthy of that name in public housing and, of course, to know rigorously and to use the state's estate competently for housing purposes. It's the same thing to say: enough talk! There is political courage to face the interests of economic power, banks, investment funds, multinationals, so that housing is even a right. For that, they count on us! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded item 2 of the agenda... [[Pause.]] The Bureau has no further entries. [[Pause.]] Mr António Topa Gomes was signaling to the Bureau that he wishes to make an intervention, taking advantage of the seconds he still has? Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u142	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u143	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u144	Madam President, I would like to give only two final notes, and the first concerns decentralization. With all the friendship I have with Mr. José Rui Cruz — and I don't know if it has been autarca, or not —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u145	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u146	... but if you have gone autarch and have ever had to negotiate state heritage with the central state, I am sure you will know this difficulty. [[PSD applause.]] Just look at the conditions such as, in decentralisation — by way of a measure with which our two parties agreed — the schools, for example, were passed to the municipalities. Then the measures were reviewed, but it was certainly not a good business for the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u147	So now you think it's wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u148	In short, and because I would like to focus on the debate, the truth is that if we want the state to build and have heritage, we have only one alternative: manage it as well or better than the private ones, and that is not done without knowing this inventory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u149	Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS Parliamentary Group, spoke for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u150	Mr President, it is just to tell Mr.António Topa Gomes, paying him the sympathy he had for me, that I was, yes, autarch and at that time it was very difficult to deal with the government, but in long time the government was even the PSD. [[PS and PSD rice.]] It's been many years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u151	Ah, because now it's much easier! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u152	In fact, it was already in the last century, and we hope it won't be so fast again. It was actually a problem dealing with the PSD, but times have changed, there are others. Today, with this government, being not perfect the relationship between local and central power, things are much simpler. The relationship between local power and central power is much easier, and all parties recognize that. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Things have improved and the current government has set an example and we all know that it does. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then conclude item 2 of the agenda. We will move on to point three, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 27 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — Ensures increased risk allowance for security forces and services professionals and Law Projects Nos 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Approves the increase of the supplement by service and risk in the Forces and Security Services ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 298 / 2009, of 14 October and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ), 916 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Increases to 500 € the fixed component of the service supplement and risk in the security forces taken by the Republican National Guard military and police officers and 917 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Ensures the increase of the supplement per service and risk and the round supplement of the personnel of the security forces and services, together with the Resolution Project No 875 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By valuing careers and strengthening the human and material resources of the Prison Guard Corps. To submit Bill No. 910 / XV / 2. a, from the PCP, has the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament: The security forces and services professionals are entitled to a risk supplement to ensure the safety and security of their citizens. These professionals must have adequate conditions for the mission they are entrusted with, and their exposure to various risk, danger and penosity factors should be considered. Stress, nighttime, extra work, use of firearms, exposure to violence, sacrifice of holidays, among others, are preponderant factors and thus the risk supplement needs to be added to the specific characteristics of the functions. Moreover, it has for many years been a claim of the trade unions and socio-professional associations of the PSP (Public Security Police) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and, for us, there is no doubt of the fairness of this claim. In fact, it is enough to take into account the value that is paid to other security forces that take—and well! — a supplement worthy of the risk of their duties. Just take these values into account to realize that there is a great injustice here: while the PJ ( Judicial Police) and the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service) receive values greater than €400, the PSP and the GNR have a fixed component very, very lower. The CFP considers that the rules on the remuneration status of the PSP and the GNR, in part concerning the fixed component of that supplement resulting from the 2021 decree of law, should be amended by setting a fair amount. This measure is not only fair as it is even important to continue to guarantee the services of the security forces. It is clear that the lack of recognition and compensation for these functions performed by security forces and services is a factor that objectively withdraws attractiveness and prevents their recognition in the performance of their functions. The updating of the risk allowance is essential to motivate these professionals, not forgetting that while there are no pay tables and conditional risk subsidies, among other working conditions, it will be difficult to recruit candidates — as the last competitions have shown — if the problem of the aging of the effective and also the loss of operational capacity has increased. The proposal of the CFP consists of an amount of €420, on 1 January 2024, and has already been expected to evolve to €450 during the year of 2024. This proposal is important and urgent, for the dignity of security forces and services. It is a measure of justice and also fairness, which today has the opportunity to be approved by this Parliament. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u155	To submit Bill No. 917 / XV / 2. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, through the proposal brought to us by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, we are called upon to discuss once again the rights of the personnel of the security forces and services, elements which are not only the guarantor of the defence of democratic legality, but also of internal security and of the rights of citizens. However, its importance has been far from being recognised, in particular as regards some of its rights, either by the poor quality of the equipment that should protect them, either by the housing which is assured to them and which is so often unworthy, in the context of inflation such as that in which we live, or by inexplicably not having seen an injustice corrected with more than 12 years of wage freeze. The security forces and services professionals face risks every day in the name of the security of all of us, questioning their physical integrity, something very clear that only last year, 1014 elements of the security forces and services have been injured in service. However, for the PS and for the Government, the constant remuneration for these security forces is €3, €22 per day. These 3, 22 € per day do not even cover the distress of the family of an agent who, on that day or night, is in a round, or the fear that may exist because of the inherent risk of service to be provided — often high-risk service. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this low value and a decrease in the importance of the work of the elements of security forces and services also creates a sense of revolt, which is indeed fertile ground for the populisms we have witnessed in these same benches, to be fed by some forces and by the opportunism of some. This cannot be the way, and that is why the NAP, being as always, alongside the dignity of the working conditions of the elements of the forces and security services, proposes the increase of the fixed component of the PSP and GNR risk supplement to €443; that wage stagnations that last decades and these risk supplements are updated every year, in line with the Social Support Index ( IAS ) ; and, finally, that the supplement of the PSP round is increased by 20 %, so that it has appropriate matching values to wear out the profession and to the dignity that it requires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative of the Azorian Parliament calls on us to address a problem that is not new and that is linked to the need to improve the pay conditions of the security forces and services professionals. We agree with the purpose of this initiative and with some of its principles and objectives. The PSD has long argued that there is a need for a thorough reflection on all the components that constitute the remuneration of forces and security services. The PSD has long argued that it is necessary to dignify and value this important mission, the effectiveness and prestige of forces and security services. We speak not only of the revision of the risk allowance, which, at the initiative of the PSD, was included in the State Budget Act to 2021 and increased from €31 to €100, which is certainly very short of what is desired, but also of the urgency to review the supplements, which are still being applied by reference to the 2009 PSP status, and to devote an insularity allowance to those who perform these functions in Madeira and the Azores. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all of these components must be reviewed urgently, in an integrated way and in a comprehensive and general perspective, in the interests of the necessary strengthening of the State authority and in order to rejuvenate and attract new elements to these forces. It is essential that this happen in an integrated perspective, and always within the framework of social dialogue. Unfortunately, the Government is slow to move forward with the forecasting and implementation of appropriate measures and to respond fully to the demands of these forces, as well as to the fact that it has carried out captives and enormous devaluation in this area of security and internal administration in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need this comprehensive review urgently, even to harmonise, once and for all, the remuneration conditions between the various security forces and services. Unfortunately, almost all legislative initiatives on these matters have been rejected. The case of insularity allowance is seen, and for more than 21 years this injustice has been resolved. Central government workers, where security forces and services are included, are the only ones — I repeat, the only ones! — which do not benefit from the insularity allowance in the autonomous regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no reason to justify this injustice, this inequality, this difference of treatment between workers of central and regional administration, without each other with insularity allowance. From 2001 to the present, there have been several initiatives presented by both the PSD and the Members of the Madeira PSD, individually, with a view to putting an end to this injustice. These initiatives have either expired without even being discussed or perhaps, Mrs and Mrs. Members, they have always been, but always rejected with the vote against the Socialist Party. After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the compressor roll of the absolute majority of the Socialist Party working. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u159	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u160	Madam President, this debate, in the configuration you have today, with a parliamentary group that "fills the mouth" with the police and the forces of authority and is not present in the debate, because of a report you have made, when discussing the working conditions of the forces of authority it is an example of how it is absolutely empty that routinely do. It's just a rable equal to all the other rables. Who is on the side of the police and the authority forces must begin by recognizing one thing: that the police are workers and that they should be treated with working conditions, remuneration and career progression that dignify their profession, their choice of service to the community and that allow this service to the community to be done in the best way. It is this gesture of gratitude, too, that the legislator and the Executive owe them, and that is why the Free will will follow this proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and will not prevent any of the initiatives associated with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u161	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, this Parliament is discussing the increase in service and risk supplementation in security forces, as well as the promotion and enhancement of careers and strengthening of the Prison Guard's body, in an auction logic, which is the one that gives the most. In common, the various projects identify the need for more financial, human and material resources for the effectiveness of PSP, GNR and Prison Guard. In either way or otherwise, although some through a more secure prism and others through a more utopian and unrealistic prism, all political parties recognize the essential role of security forces and services and the need for them to have working conditions worthy of that name. However, there are details and reasons in these projects regarding the increase of the supplement per service and risk that are lacking in truth. And they lack the truth when they compare this allowance that is currently taken from PSP and GNR agents to SEF and the Judicial Police. Firstly, the principle is that we are faced with the same and functionally similar functions, taking all the same work, which does not surprise us, or do not come these proposals from nationalists and communists, two sides of the same currency, equality and collectiveism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u163	Less! A little less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u164	This is the real theory of ironing, where the opposites now hate each other. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Secondly, and as a result of being different professions and functions, these projects also lack the truth because they omit the fact that the SEF and PJ pay structure is substantially different from the PSP and GNR pay and subsidies structure. And this is the real problem. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] We admit that these projects are approved and that the fixed component of the supplement per service is increased to 500 €, existing here an increase of 400 €. Not only are these parties playing auctions without taking into account the specificities of the functions of each of the careers, as they insist on not looking at the revision of supplements, wages and careers in a serious and duly substantiated way. It's very easy to sneeze with increases, but without being able to justify why or what its impact will be. This is the problem of who only works for the statistical chair and forgets to go to the classes of Arithmetic chair. They only ask for more resources and more expense, but they forget to tell where they will cut off. They're gonna cut where? In the SNS (National Health Service) or in social policies? Or, then, you should have in mind another increase in taxes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they decide, because there is nothing that leaves us away from better pay for all Portuguese, including for the PSP, GNR and the Prison Guard, but this must be a serious, duly substantiated and not demagogic speech. This is what both the CFP and the party that is not even here have done: they choose the facts that interest them and do not discuss them in a serious and substantiated way. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u165	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores understood well to address the issue of risk subsidies to the personnel of the security forces and services — which seems to us to be a relevant debate. Looking beyond this supplement, for the actual and objective circumstances of the performance of the functions of these professionals, there is a huge pressure that falls on them since the beginning of their activity. First of all, because they start to work away from home, with wages that do not give for a proper emancipation — many of them are placed in the Lisbon area with wages that are not enough to pay nor accommodation. Practical consequence of this is that many of them live in conditions that are not ideals — they are far from that — and, on the other hand, they submit themselves to schedules that are absolutely inhuman to shorten the time they spend away from home and to maximize the time they spend at home. This pressure that has existed since the start of the performance of professional activity does not change throughout life, on the contrary: after a few years, after being lucky enough to get closer to home, they still have to keep working hours per shift, working at the end of the week, and, not by chance, the problems of the restructuring of family life accumulate. That is why many tell us that, in conversations between colleagues, one of the difficulties they feel most is how to reconcile professional activity with family activity. This criticism, then, also helps explain several of the problems of pressure and anxiety inherent in the performance of these professionals. Not by chance, mental health problems in security forces and services are also associated with this reality. We can say that this is a little the reflection that the IL brought here, that the money solves everything, but the money doesn't solve everything. There are many things besides money, including a better organization of work and a respect for the working conditions of these professionals, which are neither « meat for cannon», nor do Acephalists of any order that comes from above. This is not acceptable anywhere, it is unacceptable in the security forces and services, regardless of the obligation to a hierarchy and to be included in a responsibility that the State has — and which is unique to the State — which is the exercise of power and the exercise of the form of action in society, which is forbidden to all others. Regardless of this loyalty and scrupulously fulfilling its obligations, there can be no idea of deresponsibility of the State before these professionals, who are workers, as well as of their working conditions, as often happens, thinking that they, because they have to fulfill orders, can assume any of the responsibilities they are given to them and that they can do so in any way, even if there are no conditions for them to do so. Money isn't everything, but money also makes a difference. With regard to this concrete reality, it should be stressed that there are several weights and measures in relation to compliance with the risk allowance in the security forces and services. The State does not look the same way for two different lives and should have another obligation in this regard. And don't even look the same way at people who are exposed differently to the risk and, in doing so, there is no consistency in the allocation of these subsidies. Finally, it also includes these subsidies not in their own functions — in exposure to the risk which, in theory, is inherent to them — but in part of the remuneration. Why? It's because the base pay is so low. Now, this is the wrong way of looking at the problem, it is even the wrong way of thinking about the risk of security forces and services, and it is also the wrong way of assigning payment according to that risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u167	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u168	I conclude with a sentence, Madam President. It seems to us that the proposals on the table are sensible. Increasing the payment of the risk allowance to these professionals is more than fair, but it seems to us, too, that the debate cannot be alone because it begins in working conditions and ends in mental health. Guaranteedly, this body of professionals, men and women, is needed and essential to our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u169	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are discussing today, again — and well! — issues relating to internal administration and, in particular, to the valorisation of our security forces and services. It is a matter of utmost importance for the Socialist Party and for the Government, which fights for an internal security which we want more robust, as a fundamental axis, as you know, of the democratic rule of law. The policy guidelines in the field of internal security focus on consolidating high levels of security that the country has been registering, as one of the safest countries in the world, and also on strengthening this national internal security system, increasing its capacity for preventive and reactive response through the training of security forces and the dignity of its professionals. This dignification, ladies and gentlemen, is necessarily due to the improvement of their working conditions, with new or requalified facilities which the new Military Programming Act provides for and also for their wage valuation and public policy solutions in terms of accommodation. It is in these areas that we are fulfilling and doing — and doing good. We are fulfilling and doing when we have an estimated investment of EUR 607 million in infrastructure and equipment up to 2026, which requires a huge effort in the proper establishment of the priority hierarchy and the demanding commitment to its implementation. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ladies and gentlemen, it is, as you know, the largest volume of investment in the modernization, re-qualification and dignity of working conditions and better operational indicators of security forces and services. It is pointed out that already in the previous cycle, between 2017 and 2021, with EUR 340 million, the investment was five times greater than between 2012 and 2016, with EUR 61 million. We are also evolving and doing so when we invest in improving remuneration conditions at an estimated 20 % increase between 2023 and 2026.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u172	In 2023, as you know, the expected wage increase was even the largest in the last decade. The increase in income by public administration workers — and, as such, by the personnel of the security forces and services — is a design of the PS, is a plan of the government and must be based on a dialogue that must be frank, a dialogue that must be fair and that must be made of possible balances, ensuring the future sustainability of the solutions found and ensuring that the different processes do not result in steps that need to be taken back. Those are safe steps we want to take. We also continued to strengthen human resources, so in 2022 the PSP promoted the entry of 921 agents and 29 officers. In the GNR, 1459 guards and 38 officers were admitted. In 2023, 580 new police officers and 1185 military troops are expected to enter the GNR. In the Prison Guard Corps entered 136 new guards and are 104 in initial formation. In addition, in recent years, the largest number of promotions have occurred, which also results in remuneration gains. But this wage valuation effort has direct effects on the increase of variable supplement for the service of the security forces. This after passing from 30 € to 100 € in fixed value. It means that today, between the fixed component and the variable component of the risk supplement, we are talking about 280 € per month, which can reach more than 330 € up to 2026. They'll say the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and good! — that is still insufficient, but it is an ongoing path, where we have added and never subtracted, as has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u174	The appreciation and dignity for the exercise of police conditions is also evident in the Government's efforts to acquire, requalify and build housing. In addition to EUR 40 million from the European funds, we have been able to free more than EUR 20 million from the balances passed from social services, allowing us an unprecedented capacity to place as available 300 accommodation only in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. Finally, we must highlight what has been a reality, since the first hour, with the Minister of Internal Administration: a constant dialogue with the security forces, with the trade unions and with local power, where it has been established, with the Portuguese municipalities—especially the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto— an agreement to ensure conditions of access and profit, whether in the area of culture, in the area of sport or in the area of leisure, making this fruit more suitable for the security forces and their families. It is a process of socializing local communities with our security forces that enables a stronger relationship between citizens and security forces and services. In the defence of prestige and the good name of the security forces, as you know, there is also ongoing, with the Ministry of Justice, the sanctioning regulatory densification for those who attack the forces of the democratic authority. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will always be in this defence, as well as in the defence of fundamental human and social rights, guaranteeing and promoting the freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate which is very important for the valorisation of security forces and services, I can only mention the following: how we have checked, during this debate, it is urgent to move forward for a comprehensive and integrated review of all — all of them! — the components constituting the remuneration of the security forces and services. The dignity of these forces is at stake and the need to harmonise the remuneration conditions between them. Nor could I stop addressing Mrs. Susana Amador. The honourable Member has come to say that this is a matter of utmost importance, but, Madam Member, it is not worth continuing to say here that this is a matter of utmost importance when nothing can be done and when advertisements on advertisements continue to be announced. [[PS protests.]] We well know that this government and this Socialist Party are the government and the advertising party, but what the security forces and services want is much more than announcements. [[PS protests.]] With regard to the announcements, we can see an example that is very revealing of this governance, that of the Military Programming Law. It is still far from scheduled admissions and the Government continues to insist on implementing what is constant in this Programming Act. And so, Mrs Deputies, what was expected is that the government would move from announcements to realisations and results. That is what the security forces and services want. I also wanted to say one last word to the Members and to the Members. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, to recall that in the last six years, the Left Block and the PCP have been accomplices of this socialist government, this socialist government, that nothing could prove. [[PCP protests.]] The advances in this matter are very small and therefore six years later, we are here again with this debate to discuss the appreciation of the remuneration condition of these professionals, the risk allowance and the insularity allowance for forces and security services in the Autonomous Regions, subjects that should have been resolved for a long time and which have not yet been resolved. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget: over the past six years much could have contributed to resolving this situation, but they have not contributed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u177	We have concluded point three of our agenda and we will move on to point four. Mrs Alma Rivera asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u178	Madam President, I had been registered to speak. Doesn't the Bureau have that information?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u179	Madam Member, we do not have that indication, but please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u180	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Finally, there are clarifications that are absolutely important and so I wanted to begin by saying—for those who accuse others of lack of knowledge, but who then effectively stumble in their own words—that in 2021 there was a restructuring of supplements, of all supplements, because it was a variety of them. What resulted from that was an increase of 30 € to 100 €, i.e. a net difference of 70 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u181	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u182	What the government did was fight and give again. Basically, the actual difference in the life of these agents was €70. Of course, it is a very small value. The question I leave here, not only those who are absent and who thus demonstrate the degree of commitment they have to these matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u184	... but also to those who challenge logic and evidence of a high-risk profession having an adequate remuneration component, is it: risking their lives, separating themselves from their families for 900 € of basic remuneration? That's the point! [[PCP applause.]] And what is the solution to the fact that today there is the honour commitment of 550 PSP agents in a course that was for 1020 agents? So they couldn't attract and couldn't fix. In view of this lack of attractiveness, what is the solution for those who insist on keeping things as they are?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u185	It's the hardware!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u186	It's leaving the police, then! We will allow our effective to be even smaller than it already is. [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] Therefore, if they have no proposals, at least they are limited to a serious assessment and with decent arguments the proposals of others. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u187	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u188	Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that the real challenge must be placed on the Socialist Party, which is not being able to reverse the lack of attractiveness of the profession. The increases you have announced are very small and refuse to negotiate seriously with the unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u190	And that would be the commitment that the PS could give, together with a decent risk supplement, to reconstitute the security forces and motivate them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u191	Now, yes, we move on to point 4 of the order of business, with Petition No 103 / XV / 1. a ( Isabel Vasco and others) — In defense of our teachers! , in conjunction with Bill No 922 / XV / 2. a (BE) — Full recovery of completed service time in defense of public school. To present this Bill, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We always come back here, to the project on the recovery of service time. We always go back to this same project that the Left Block brought when the teachers mobilized for the recovery of their career and that the Socialist Party and PSD plummeted. Hardware is this, no doubt! Ferradura is the way in which the centre has always refused to recognize rights and how this has consequences for democracy. And that's what I wanted to talk about today. It seems clear to us that the country is angry, the people are angry. And it is normal that because people do not eat budget surplus for breakfast, they do not give the budget surplus to their children, they do not pay the income or the supply of the house with the budget surplus, nor does the budget surplus hire teachers, much less doctors. On the contrary, it is we who pay the budget surplus, it is the salaries not paid to teachers for the service time that has not been recovered, it is the appreciation of the teachers' career — which has not been made! — paying the budget surplus. And there is a time when we have to ask ourselves: after all, what is best for democracy and for the country? Is the Prime Minister able to present himself very seriously and present his budget surplus — the Prime Minister and the budgetary surplus itself — both in Brussels? Or is it the best thing for the country to recognize rights? And recognize rights from a principle, which is: the people are living badly. And he's living badly, because the salary doesn't go to the house rent. And this does not only apply to young people and to precarious people, it applies to teachers. Teachers who have a whole life of work and cannot pay an income so they can move to work. And there is a country with a budgetary surplus that you think can afford this misery. That's what needs to be discussed. And that's what we're discussing when we talk about the teachers' recovery of time of service. And if a few years ago, the PS and PSD joined in saying that all this was worth nothing, because teachers would get used to the fact that they couldn't get their career back, today all the masks on it fell. The country can, the country needs, the school can, and all the speeches about the lack of teachers are very empty, are drowned in its small hypocrisy, when what we all recognize is essential to value the career of teachers—which is to recover the time of service—has become not an instrument to solve the problems of public school, but in a way to make a permanent war on teachers and their representatives. The government preferred war with teachers to what we have been saying for years—and which is known for years—that could be the main means of negotiating career recovery, recovery of service time. This is what we have brought here once again, hoping that everything that has happened in recent years has been a good lesson on the consequences of not valuing public services, fundamental rights, and not valuing who exercises them and who allows them to be everyday — every day! — in the case of teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u193	To present the Resolution Project No. 714 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government review and amend the new management and recruitment regime of teaching staff, to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, let us congratulate and thank the more than 15,000 petitioners who bring this issue to debate. This is not the first time that, indeed, we are here discussing the valorization of your career, the management regime, and not so much how you recruit it, unfortunately. We are well aware of the importance and importance of the training of children and young people. We also know that they continue to suffer from enormous obstacles, whether at the level of pay positions or professional valorisation, whether at the level of social, housing and educational challenges which have, at this time, aggravated all this by an absolute majority and an apparent openness to the negotiations, but in a context in which, of course, it becomes much more difficult to move forward the proposals of the opposition parties. Nevertheless, teachers, as well as the educational community in general, have demonstrated their value and resilience in this process, without failing to exercise their mission in the best possible way, in the face of the conditions they face. The government has approved the new regime of dynamic linkage under the hat of combating precariousness, but it happens that, for most teachers, the idea of combating precariousness that the government wants to transmit with dynamic linkage affects reality, leading to the removal of the profession. There is no way to stop walking around the house behind the back when the teachers who want to link have to do competition for the whole country, and one can say the same about the problem of the disease. For this reason, the NAP wants today to review the new regime of dynamic linkage, adapting it to the fair demands of teachers, and thus making it a fair and true regime for combating precariousness, with a view to eliminating inequalities in linkage, and finally making a tender for the extraordinary linkage of teachers with three or more years of service, duly negotiated with trade union structures. The Government is also obliged — and we cannot fail to mention — by Community directive the elimination of the high levels of precariousness of teachers. It was therefore important that, this school year, the rules for an extraordinary binding competition were negotiated, more positive than those in the dynamic binding regime, which will exclude thousands of teachers and will also lead to the overrun of teachers with more time of service. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we cannot see what we saw yesterday, in the words of the Prime Minister, which tries to turn public officials against each other and say that we cannot negotiate with teachers, because it would not be fair for the other public service careers. We must look at it as a whole, it is a fact, but we must see that there are more pressing matters, such as the linkage and the binding criteria. And if we have to start somewhere, so it's good and it's for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u195	To present the Resolution Project No 883 / VX / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to enhance workers in education and public school, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the PCP welcomes petitioners No 103 / XV / 1. a — In defense of our teachers! with which they contribute to the debate on the situation of education workers and public school, a debate which the CFP does not abandon. The CFP again presents measures to strengthen workers' rights, to combat precariousness and to enhance their careers — from teachers to educational action assistants, specialist technicians, through technical assistants. The PCP also takes advantage of welcoming the struggle of teachers, in progress, in particular the one held today and the strike called for the next day 6. Even yesterday, the Prime Minister did not make any commitment to meet the fair demands of teachers and the problems of public school. Mrs. Members, the recognition of own status and specific careers is required for non-teachers, with the consecration of programmatic content, as is the example of school psychologists. The linkage of specialists in the appropriate career as well as the creation of recruitment groups in the disciplinary areas corresponding to teaching functions and the recruitment and integration, in an appropriate number, to meet the needs. It is essential to reorganise working hours in order to define and clarify what should be considered in the educational and non-formal components, respecting what is set out in the Statute of the Teaching Career. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, agreeing with the scheduling of this discussion in the plenary, the PSD has come to promise, in recent days, a hypothesis of recognition of the time of service of teachers, phased in five years. We well know what the PSD positions have to do with. In the various opportunities in which he could have approved the phased count of all the time of service, he did not do so, even when the PSD vote would have led to the approval of this very right measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u197	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u198	For example, in December 2017, PSD was complicit, with PS, in abstinence in the vote of the PCP draft resolution recommending the counting of all service time for remunerative valuation purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u199	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u200	It is well known that the PSD « cambalhota » in 2019 when it voted against, here in plenary, after having voted favourably, in the field of specialty, the possibility of completing the recovery of all time of service. [[PSD protests.]] By the PCP, today as always, the proposal is clear about the teaching career: the consideration of all the service time effectively provided by teachers and educators, who are six years, six months and 23 days ; the binding of all teachers with more than three years of service and who perform permanent functions in schools; the elimination of quotas and vacancies for access to the 5th and 7th steps ; the respect for professional graduation at all stages of the competition, eliminating surpluses; the application of specific retirement schemes, including workers from the various sectors of the Public Administration, including teachers, identifying the measures and conditions necessary for their completion, in particular with regard to the start of the negotiating procedures. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have another opportunity to take the right action. And the question is, it will be this time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u201	To present Resolution Projects Nos. 899 / XV / 2. a ( L) — By valuing and qualifying careers of technical assistant and operational assistant in schools and promoting measures that allow these resources to be adapted to the reality of each school and 900 / XV / 2. a ( L) — Mr Rui Tavares has the floor by linking, accounting for teaching time and ending of career progression blockade.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u202	Madam President, in this debate which is triggered by a petition signed by thousands of our citizens, I must begin by welcoming these petitioners, but also teachers, educational action assistants, all school officials, parents, students, who are our most important tool for the transmission of knowledge and preparation for a community life and do what allows what humanity has accumulated for thousands of years, the disciplines that it has created — from Literature to Mathematics — in a few years, to be passed on to new generations. There are few vocations that are as noble and as sacred as this, and there are few vocations that have been so spiced, in recent years in our country, as precisely the vocation of the school. And so that we may not always be remembering the swindling history of Passos Coelho has invited teachers to leave their comfort zone and emigrate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u203	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u204	...we can remember the time when Nuno Crato, known for his requirement in Mathematics, forgot something essential,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u205	It's a different story! Don't rewrite the story!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u206	...when he said there were more teachers. It has forgotten what would be the situation of such « possible pseudo-professors to others », after being treated for not knowing how many years of Nuno Crato's policies. Now, we have less teachers, and we're going to have less and less teachers. Now, it happens that the years that the PSD has left to arrive at a proposal for a solution for the recovery of service time are perhaps almost as many as the time of service that will be recovered. We know what the PSD did in 2019; but still this year, here at least in a vote on a proposal from the Free — and certainly others too — for the recovery of service time, the PSD abstained. Welcome, now, to this basic principle,... [[PSD protests.]] ...that is what people should receive by the service that they have effectively rendered to the community and that we must pay them that respect if we want to have teachers in the future. And that is why I am here to appeal to the approval of the two draft Free Resolutions, which is for the valorization and qualification of careers of technical assistant and operational assistant in schools, and that is, again, for the binding, accounting of the time of teaching service and the end of the blockade in career progression.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u207	Mrs. Members, we conclude the presentation of the different projects of the various parliamentary groups and now turn to the interventions. To that end, Mrs Carla Castro of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also thank the petitioners for today's petition. We come back to the subject of teachers, school and teaching policy, because, obviously, it is a fundamental, central issue. Let us all ask ourselves: who is well with the current state of education in Portugal? The teachers? No, no, no. They constantly walk with the house behind their backs, take years to implement, live drowned in aimless bureaucracies, the work they do for years in schools is indifferent to their placement and progression, and live daily the lack of conditions, demotivation and situations of psychological stress. We have heard the government say they are valued, but will they be CL? We defend a teacher evaluation system that assesses the commitment, dedication and results of teachers. We're talking about this again, because it's still important. There is a lot of debate, yes, about the recovery of service time, but it is important also to talk about several issues, because changes in education have to be structural. After eight years of governance — eight years, contrary to what often seems to be in the political discourse — we continue to see no outline of structural changes. And every day that passes, the government will lose its own legitimacy of its role, damaging it. I believe that everyone knows the phrase beaten—and I have already commented here—that if the state was managed by a foreign power, we would declare war on it. For what I have to say about war is that this must be declared, yes, to the one who put education in this state. You cannot remain—as you seem to be—in war with the teachers. Let us then return your questions. Are the teachers okay? No, no, no. The school directors are okay? No, because they cannot choose their teachers; they cannot keep those who have good performances; because they have problems at the level of autonomy and immense bureaucracy and because they are forced to start again every year, knowing exactly what awaits them at the end of it. Non-teachers okay? No, no, no. Which one of us doesn't have a story, a memory? They're part of the school. If none of these are good, we can ask: but education policy is good for whom? For whom does education exist? So, let's see, are the families okay? No, no, no. They are desperate for a stable and quality teaching, but they don't even know, at the end of history, whether their children will have classes. There are record levels of students in private—and it wasn't the Liberals—explanations in the public, for whom you can, confusion with school textbooks and so many situations that we're talking about here. At the end of history, the main: students, are they satisfied? No, no, no. In the end, they are the main harm. in this academic year, there are currently nearly 60 000 students without teachers at least one discipline. And a less visible aspect, whose impact they do not realize, is that they are victims of a government that lowers the requirement, lowers the level and limits their potential for a better future. Will the government and the Ministry be happy with the direction of education? We disagree with the government's assessment and maintain that we are on a constant step-by-step. Today we have several projects here, but we do not tire of insisting that it is essential, that we need to go very deep in the problems and, yes, in that difficult word called « reforms». Problems: excessive centralisation of a government that acts as a school director rather than a system regulator; lack of autonomy of schools, which are obliged to render accounts without even having the resources and power to decide their own actions. the Ministry requires a new way of allocating teachers, considering the needs of schools and the differentiating paths; a new model of decentralized school management; an effective evaluation of teachers giving them freedom of choice; autonomy in the setting of objectives; and, yes, a true reduction in bureaucracy. We really need to change, and it's not going to be with quick thinking or with tough measures that we're going to solve this. It is important to ensure that we have professionals motivated and aware of the impact they may have on future generations. The Prime Minister is not enough to say, here or in interviews, that he values the teachers' career. I end by reiterateing that education is the "silver bullet" for young people and for the country and therefore we must not be afraid to change; we must be afraid to continue with education as it is. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u209	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the parliamentary groups that have presented the various projects that are under discussion and also, in the person of Mrs. Isabel Vasco, to greet all petitioners, all professionals who work daily in the education sector. Objectively, the petition in defense of our teachers defends, among other things, the full counting of their time of service, the elimination of vacant quotas in the evaluation that prevent career progression, the end of the hourly burden caused by the lack of assistant staff in schools and the right of teachers to live with their families with dignity. For the PSD, it is still urgent for the government to value the career of teachers, negotiate with trade union organizations the recovery of service time, guarantee better conditions for the exercise of its profession and find structural answers to the problem of lack of teachers. The bill of the Left Block and the draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party refer, and I quote, «the total recovery of the service time accomplished by the teachers», and the one of the Left Block precisely refers to the freezing between 2011 and 2017 as one of the just causes of this struggle. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Left Block Members, it is indeed a fair cause, but it was already in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u211	PSD voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u212	PSD has crashed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u213	Therefore, hypocrisy and heavy conscience must have you because you have become part of the government's management solution, because you have approved six budgets and have never put the matter of recovery of service time as an unequivocal condition to support the Government of António Costa. That, yes, is hypocrisy! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The left side of the management is that, at every approval of the State budget, the teachers were roped, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from PCP MP Alfredo Maia and João Dias.]] Yes, the PSD proposal presented last Saturday by its President, Luís Montenegro, after responsible and conscious reflection, is to take it seriously. The teaching career is currently in a paradigm based on precariousness and unsustainability. The degradation of public schools has largely settled in the dissatisfaction of teachers with the rules of placement, by the conditions of schools, by indiscipline, but to a large extent by the injustice with regard to the freezing of their careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u214	You're the one who froze them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u215	While this dossier persists, union organizations say that there will be no peace in schools, with reflections on the quality of teaching and the learning of students. But the government has been incompetent and unable to negotiate clearly, transparently, honestly and openly with the teachers. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, please inform the Prime Minister that the PSD was not well associated with the freezing of careers between 2011 and 2015, while removing the country from bankruptcy that you provoked! [[PSD applause.]] Let it be clear to the public and to this House that those who frozen their careers were the Socialist Party, not the PSD! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS members Eurico Brilliant Dias and Porfírio Silva.]] It was the government of José Socrates — that you deny and of which Antonio Costa at the time was 2 — who for the first time frozen the careers between 2005 and 2007. This is clear. [[PS protests.]] Hypocrisy is freezing nine years, four months and two days and making sense on televisions that is nothing with you. Therefore, the Socialist Party and the left of management are responsible for the state to which the public school and our education system arrived. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u216	In the last eight years of governance, the left has subject the school to systematic changes in education policy, bureaucracy, lack of individual and collective working conditions and increased indiscipline and aggression against teachers, among others. [[Protests by PS MP Eurico Brillante Dias and BE Member Isabel Pires.]] In eight years, the Government presented nothing structural to stop the aging of teachers and to ensure their natural and generational replacement. Nothing has done to attract the younger ones to the profession and now runs behind the damage, worth almost everything. Even universities will be less demanding in access to teachers. In fact, the basic education degree is no longer imperative. For this government, the solution goes down the level and the requirement to be a teacher.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u217	To lower the requirement is here the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u218	This is no way to guarantee more quality in teaching or to guarantee a better future for our students. To value teachers is to put students and school first in political options. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u219	For an intervention, Mrs Lúcia Araújo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u220	Madam President, I would like to congratulate the President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Before starting my own intervention, I cannot help but ask Mr. António Cunha, who was with an inflamed speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u221	True! It's not inflamed, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u222	... if, certainly for his enthusiasm, he forgot who governed this country between 2011 and 2015 and who really froze the races. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, in view of the petition you are debating today and also of the related initiatives, it is up to me to say the following: being a teacher is more than a profession, it is a mission. I do not want to say that in the other professions this spirit of mission is not felt either, but for a teacher this mission is more intrinsic and it is up to all of us to value and emphasize the profession of teacher. Fortunately, our young people are believing in this profession, seeing the increase in the number of students we had in higher education, and in the last two years there has been an increase of 46% in basic education courses. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u223	On the part of the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, this appreciation and respect have been made. The Government is fulfilling what it has defined in its electoral programme and has been suspended in elections. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group cannot agree, like the honourable Members. Members said that the government did nothing by valuing the working conditions of teachers. I would like to highlight just a few measures for those who are most distracted: the shortening of the rail standard, which has passed from five to three years — the Members. Members of the PSD should remember very well; the link between 2016 and 2022 of 14,500 teachers; the link between the teachers of Music and Dance in specialized artistic education; the establishment of the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group; the strengthening of hours for the course direction; and the investment of about 50 million euros in continuous training. Since 2018, 98% of the teachers have progressed on the step, in the career. [[Protests of PSD Members and PS Deputies Counterprotests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that it is difficult to hear the truth, but I thank you for being quiet, because I have also heard the honourable Member silently. of these, 90 % progressed two steps in the career. There was also the creation of new rates of remuneration for hired teachers, which had already been felt on September 1, 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I refer to the adoption of a new model for the recruitment of teaching staff from basic and secondary education and specialized training technicians, which has as priorities the fight against precariousness, the reduction of distances and the setting of teachers in schools. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, may I be disappointed that if these measures do not value the working conditions of teachers, what does it value them?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u224	Salaries!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u225	With regard to the recovery of full service time and the modification of the recruitment management regime, I recall that in the 21st Government, all Public Administration careers were frozen, and 70% of the career progression modules were recovered. In the specific case of teachers, because their career has shorter steps than the other Public Administration careers, and because it is a career without categories, the thawing has allowed more than 90 % of teachers to have advanced two steps in just five years. By 2018, more than 30 % of the teachers were on the first three steps, but at present this percentage has fallen to 16 %, being 38% of the teachers on the last three steps of the career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u227	Nevertheless, the Government has continued to operate in this area through the mechanism for accelerating the career progress of the teacher who is already in implementation. In particular, and in the light of this special scheme, teachers in office since 2005 and 2006, covered by the freezing of careers between January 2011 and December 2017, who meet the requirements for progression, will benefit from the recovery of service time, the creation of additional vacancies for access to 5. a is 7. the steps and the reduction of one year in the duration of the step for teachers who are in the step above 6. Finally, it should be noted that these measures will have a financial impact of EUR 161 million, with more than 60 000 teachers covered. With regard to the change in the recruitment system through the dynamic linkage mechanism, some 5000 teachers were linked and opted for a solution without the definitive occupation of a framework to prevent teachers from being overcome. I would add that in the coming year of 2024 more than 20 000 seats will be opened, using the hiring and teachers in the teaching area. This means that the measures which are being discussed here by the NAP are being implemented by this government. With regard to the initiative which proposes the allocation of cost aid to teachers and the amendment of retirement laws, it should be clarified that this measure affects the principle of equality. The same is true of operational assistants and technical assistants who have seen their career be recognized. Through the consultation between the government and the unions, we are walking to make the appreciation more and more felt. Mr President, I would just like to conclude by saying that, after all, criticism is easy, but what matters is to do, because the path, that way, is going. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u228	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u229	Madam President, Mrs. Lúcia Araújo da Silva, hurt...! [[PS protests.]] It is not indifferent, when a measure is taken, whether it is a good or a bad measure. This empty speech of saying that some criticize and others do not go away from it, a cheap demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u230	Don't make it up, Mrs. Deputy! Cheap demagogy is what the Block does!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u231	What we are discussing here is whether the measures that the Government has taken so far to solve the problem of lack of teachers are effective or not effective and the reality is there to say that the government has failed. You failed! There is, at least — I repeat, at least! — 90 000 students without teachers in all disciplines. It is not a subjective assessment, it is an objective assessment. The government failed to attract teachers to the career, to keep teachers in the career, to counter an inescapable demographic fact that is the mass retirement of teachers—inescapable and predictable. It is so predictable that in 2016 we already knew what was going to happen, as in 2017, 2018 and 2019. That is why we proposed, consecutively, the recovery of the hours of service of the teachers. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It happens that if we consult the newspapers of that time, many of them, some even more incisive than others, realized something: « PSD gives in to PS blackmail », « PSD leads to recovery of service time ». [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u232	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u233	On May 10, 2019 there was no newspaper in Portugal that had not scrapped « PSD lead full replacement of service time ». [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u234	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u235	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking is easy. At that time, they could in fact have changed things and they didn't change—and they didn't change!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u236	You approved six budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u237	That's the difference. I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u238	You really have to finish. [[PSD protests and BE MP Pedro Filipe Soares' counterprotests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions so that the speaker can conclude. Please, Your Honor. Finish quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u239	I shall finish, Madam President, just to say that the recovery of service time was, and continues to be, a strategic issue in valuing teaching career and solving public school problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-03.u240	We have concluded our agenda. The plenary session of tomorrow is at 3 p.m. and has as its first point, in general, the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 102 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the basis of the policy of planning and management of the national maritime space and of the Law Projects Nos 204 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the law on the basis of the policy of planning and management of the national maritime space for the protection of public interest and environmental protection ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April ), 230 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves a moratorium that prevents mining in deep sea by 2050 and amends Law No. 17 / 2014 of 10 April, and 924 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Amend the law on the basis of the policy of planning and management of the national maritime area, focusing on the promotion of the circular and sustainable blue economy, as well as the promotion of renewable energy and energy autonomy, as well as of the Resolution Project No 905 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — By fixing a moratorium on deep sea mining under the precautionary principle. The second point will generally discuss the proposed Law No 95 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal regime relating to the qualification and training of motor vehicle inspectors. The third point consists in the general discussion of Law Projects Nos. 849 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes a smartphone-free school at the first levels of education, amending Law No 51 / 2012 of 5 September, and 921 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Affirms schools as a safe space free of all forms of discrimination and promotion of the healthy use of technologies, amending Law No 51 / 2012 of 5 September and Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April, together with Resolution Projects No 896 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and mobilising actions of the educational community regarding the use of technological devices in school context and 912 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Value recreations, promote their pedagogical, playful and social role. of the fourth point is the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 591 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue the path and process of relocation of public entities and services, 483 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government update the cost and transport aid values to public administration staff, 901 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government install the new central administration services within and create a program for the gradual relocation of public services to these territories, 904 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national plan for decentralization and territorial decentralisation of public services and strengthens the labour rights of workers of displaced public services and 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reopen public services closed in the territories of the country or of low population density. Finally, there will be regular votes. Thank you so much for all of us. Have a good day and see you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 24 minutes.]]
