ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 12 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. As there is no record to read, we immediately turn to the agenda that was set by the Left Block, with several projects related to the theme of adoption and connections. [[Pause.]] There was more silence in the Chamber when the session had not yet begun. To submit Bill No. 834 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the requirements and impediments to the application of the host family and extend the support granted under the support measure with another family member and with confidence to the appropriate person and to Resolution Projects Nos 778 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of specific training of foster families and candidates for adoption with a view to raising awareness and training for the adoption of older children, 779 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the national programme for the prevention of child abuse and 780 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — It recommends that the Government strengthen the preparation of children and young people in care for self-employment and the recruitment and training of technicians from the host houses, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u2	An iPad Communist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few weeks ago, in a newspaper report, a social worker said about a conversation he had with one of the people of the foster families he was accompanying, that one of the phrases he heard from that family—and it is the one that repeatedly hears from host families—is that they have a lot of love to give because they want to help children. True, some may say: “Well, it’s not just love that helps children, it’s not just the will of families that we can guarantee the best interests of children. » None of us can say that in Portugal there will be less love for foster families for children than in any other country in Europe, and that there will be no other economic condition, vis-à-vis other countries in Europe, to accommodate children in foster families. However, reality is much worse in Portugal than in the rest of Europe. With regard to the relationship between institutionalized children and children in foster families, Portugal is in the tail of Europe. The last figures indicated that there were 6369 children in charge of the State — some of them temporarily, others, definitely, until they found a family project that could give them up for adoption. They were 6369 children and, of them, not 5% were in foster families—278.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u4	Sir, I apologize for interrupting. There are several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking in various directions. The noise does not coincide with the right of any Member to be heard, so I ask for the least possible noise. I'm sorry, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u5	This is important!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u6	It is the problem of when we talk about policies for children in our country: there is a lot of concern about birth, but then, when the time comes to discuss, there is a lot of talk on the side.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u7	Christmas? Oh, my God! What about abortion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u8	Therefore, in this particular part, I think it is important to hear what is essential, in a debate where I think we can cultivate more consensus than dissent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u9	Leave the children alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u10	Calimero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u11	So it's enough to calm down for us to defend our children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u12	Don't play theater, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u13	I'm asking the services that interrupt time counting. Clearly there are difficulties in understanding what I say. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are standing in the plenary sitting in the plenary or moving to other locations of this Parliament, where they may be standing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u14	There's just...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u15	Sir, I'm sorry. I insist, because there are people who seem to be making a point of not being heard. [[Pause.]] I am sorry, because you are clearly being harmed in your speech. Let's see if the conditions are now created so that we can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u16	of the total of 6369 children in charge of the State, only 278 are in foster families, for the number of 211 host families. These numbers place us in a ratio as there is no Europe : Portugal is from countries where less the children in charge of the State are in foster families. It would contravene everything that is current knowledge on this matter. A child in a foster family can have more stability, can have more guarantees in a close-up, can have better emotional development than an institutionalized child. From that point of view the question is: then why is Portugal in the line of Europe in this indicator? This is a widespread concern, not just the Left Block. I believe that all parliamentary groups in this House, and even the Government, have already expressed concerns about this reality. So today, the debate space serves to help us together find solutions to a reality that everyone touches and obliges us to reflect on it. For the State, having children in charge is already a limited situation, it means that something has failed. It is, let us say, the lesser evil, because good, at some point, has ceased to exist. But a State that does not guarantee that the best response these children can give is not a family that can receive them is a State that is failing in what it has committed. Portugal recognizes, together with UNICEF (United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund ), for example, that it should give priority to family care. Since 2015, the Protection Act for children and young people in danger says that this should be the preferred situation up to 6 years old. However, I insist on data because they are stone stones, the number of children in family care does not reach 5%, compared to the number of institutionalized children. So do we do everything we could to ensure the access of institutionalized children to possible foster families? The answer is no, so we bring here legal amendments that allow us to remove obstacles from this process. One of the obstacles is that which exists in Portugal, but which does not exist in other countries: a family, which is a host family, cannot at the same time be a candidate for adoption. Does that make sense? It doesn't make sense. Of course, there are those who say that if a host family is also a candidate, the adoption family can fine-tune the rules of the hierarchy, the list, from the row to the adoption process. But, I ask you, what is more important: a higher interest of the child most protected by stability, by the emotional ties created, by the bond that can create with a family or a list, a hierarchy, in order that protects the rights of the family and not the rights of the child? I believe that, in the face of this question, the answer of all is unique — of all, less than the law, because the law creates this impediment. We could ask: Is this gonna change everything? It's gonna change something, but it doesn't change everything. For example, it does not give families who do not have the right to be foster families; it does not give families who do not have the conditions to have an adoption project that respects the right of children to be families who claim it. Therefore, the rights of children are not violated at all, but the legal barrier that currently puts us in the line of Europe is removed. We also propose, like what has already happened in other countries, that when a family member, or a friend of the family, wants to be with a child in charge and, therefore, be a candidate for this type of host family, have exactly the same economic support as a host family. Ask yourself, will this change everything, this make all the difference? Everything won't do, but something will. We are told by several of the representatives of the host families that the problem is not money, because where there is a lot of love money makes no difference. But we know that sometimes love isn't enough, because money is also needed to pay the bills by the end of the month.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u17	There's no deal without love!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u18	From this point of view, despite the current restrictions, when a family member or friend of the family intends to be with a child in charge, preventing its institutionalization, the State may enable, guaranteed the rights of the child, financial support to also ensure that this reception is properly carried out. In relation to the best interests of the child, in these two proposals that give body to our bill, I must say that, at no time, it is beautified, on the contrary, in all proposed amendments, is valued. Because we value the best interests of the child when we guarantee his/her well-being, his/her development, the creation of bonds, the formation of his/her trust, both in themselves and in others, the possibility of thinking about a project of life and also, yes, the possibility of thinking about a family project. I believe that everyone and everyone will agree that any of these variables important for the training of children and young people is much more easily attainable in a place of family reception than in an area of institutionalization. Does this mean that these projects are against institutions that are currently doing very important work? No, no, no. We recognize their need, we recognize their strengthening, but we know of the limitations of their action. Therefore, because we recognize its importance, we also propose that there be a strengthening of the training of technicians, both of the entities that are currently a host institution, both of the families themselves and of those who accompany families and institutions. By doing so, we can all better respect our children, our young people and their rights. We intend this to be done in a fundamental area, because currently more than 70% of the children in charge of the state are over 12 years old, which becomes a greater difficulty for both family-friendly projects and adoption projects. Therefore, we believe that there is a need for awareness of both the families and the technical teams in order to obtain, from the families who want these types of projects, greater openness for children of a more advanced age, with the guarantee that this opening has a greater follow-up on the part of the State, by technicians of these institutions. It is therefore essential that we train institutions, families, children and young people to better provide the rights of children and young people. And, as is the case with children and the young people we are talking about, it is very important that we respond to one of the fundamental issues: their emancipation, their independence and the creation of independent life projects. This training is often lacking in these courses. They are children without family ties that are close to many of us, they are children without follow-up throughout their lives which did not allow them to create a set of mechanisms for independence, they are young adults who need these mechanisms. It is therefore also necessary to strengthen these capacities that they have with training for this purpose. They are therefore positive measures. We welcome all the parliamentary groups that came to the debate with their own initiatives, we have full readiness to debate them and to work on them in the field. We also welcome those who have not brought them, because we believe that they are sensitive to this debate and that they are available for a deeper dialogue, in the name of what I started, in the name of the love we have for our children and, above all, on behalf of the rights they have to a State that gives them all the possibilities for development. [[Applause from BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u19	The honourable Member has three requests for clarification, which I believe he will answer together. For the first request for clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Gilberto Anjos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u20	Mr President, Dear Members, if we do not want to have a vulnerable country and a vulnerable future, we cannot accept and tolerate that we have children and young people in vulnerable conditions. The Socialist Party demonstrates the importance with which it sees not only the central theme scheduled by the Left Block for today, but also everything that involves children and young people and does it not only with words and declarations. Above all, do so with policies and measures that have proved to be structural in order to eliminate inequalities among young people, in promoting inclusion, in reducing the risk of poverty, in order to ensure that all children and young people have a childhood that provides them with solid foundations for a promising future, but above all, in order to be able to choose their future. This is the guarantee that children and young people have after the decision of the Portuguese to choose a party that has in the social state and in its strengthening one of their ideological matrices. It would be intellectually dishonest not to assume that there is still much to be done, with regard to institutionalized children or child abuse. So much so that the current Government of the Socialist Party has already taken the objective of working to reduce the number of children and young people in residential care by 1200 by 2030, promoting family reception. This is just one of the fronts in which the Socialist Party's Government is advancing in one that is, as it were, one of its main priorities: children and young people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u21	We have many other examples of the work and progress that are being achieved thanks to the governance of the Socialist Party. I am referring, for example, to the investment in day care centres and the freeness of day care centres, a truly transformative measure, both in the fight against child poverty and in the promotion of a family support policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u22	Where is the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u23	This is an evolutionary process, since there are already more than 58 000 children benefiting from freeness, it is of course necessary to increase the network, which itself demonstrates the relevance of this measure, which is already under way with the forecast of a reinforcement of more than 10 000 places through the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u24	If it's all done, we can go home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u25	We also have a great investment in the Guarantee for Children, with the approval of a plan focused on children at risk of poverty, with the strengthening of transfers, with automatic transfers and the implementation of integrated cross-cutting measures on health, culture, sport and education, so that a personalized intervention is made for each child covered. Strengthening the amount of 1. o is 2. the steps and the enlargement of the 3. the family allowance step results in an increase of 30 % of the benefits paid compared to last year. They are only 80 % more compared with 2015, PSD / CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u26	It's all done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u27	We know that there is still much to do, that the path is long and that the needs are constant and dynamic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u28	So where's the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u29	But we also know that much has been done. Perhaps it has never been done in relation to children and young people as well as by the current Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u30	But what government? Oh, my God! Only if it's the one with the empty chairs!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u31	So I wonder if the Left Block recognizes that, without a doubt, this Socialist Party Government is what it has done most for children and young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u32	Which government? Oh, my God! There's only empty chairs in there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u33	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after this propaganda proclamation of the PS, I naturally begin by welcoming the Left Block for bringing the debate a set of initiatives that address extraordinarily important issues, which must deserve our best attention and concern. If there is a theme that cannot be used as a weapon of political combat is this, because our children and young people must be at the heart of our concerns, and their best interest is a much greater thing that should guide all policies for the promotion and protection of children and young people. This requires a concerted policy by all political forces. It is therefore with the greatest political honesty that I say that the PSD accompanies the general concerns underlying these Left Block initiatives, because we recognize the importance of children growing in an appropriate family context. For this reason, we cannot compact with a system in which, of the total number of children and young people in foster care, 96.5% are currently in residential care and only 3.5% are in family care. This is unacceptable and today, more than ever, we know that the national strategy necessarily has to go through the replacement of residential institutional reception by welcoming in the family environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u36	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, are these the best solutions? Will these be the solutions that best alert our children and young people's best interests? I ask this because I was listening to you on a television channel, in an interview you gave this morning, and you recognized that this matter was very difficult, that it was a sensitive matter and that you had the notion that the proposals you brought to the Assembly of the Republic, and I quote, "would not bring salvation to the problems of our children and young people". Actually, VV. They seem to have more uncertainty than certainty. This is evident, from the very beginning, in the bill that they present, when they do not understand why the law does not allow families who are candidates for family care to have a relationship of kinship with the child or the young person to receive. The Left Block, in order to present a proposal on this subject, necessarily had to know what the reasons were for the legislator to impose that impediment. [[PSD applause.]] Only then could I bring a proposal to this House of the Republic in the opposite direction. The legislative process must be rigorous and serious, especially in this area. We must listen to the contributions of experts, specialists and, above all, those on the ground and those who know about this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u38	Mr President, these matters, because they are important, do not allow uncertainty, nor can our children and young people be cowards of policies and solutions that are not properly substantiated or supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u40	I would therefore ask whether the Left Block is available to carry out a serious, extensive and integrated debate on these initiatives — that is, of course, if the Socialist Party does not use its compressor role and does not lead to these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u43	Finally, if you say that the system has weaknesses that need to be improved, I ask you why the Left Block abstained last March on the proposal that the PSD submitted for the establishment of a possible subcommittee for juvenile justice and the system of promotion and protection of our children and young people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u44	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u45	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by welcoming the Left Block for bringing this issue to debate, which is also of concern to the Liberal Initiative. Although with these solutions, we are not going to solve the whole problem, we believe that we have to take steps to start solving it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u47	Together? How about steps together?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u48	The debate scheduled by the Left Block is entitled « Strengthening the protection of children and young people ». It is an extensive, diverse and complex issue on which it is never more thought and debate in this Parliament. In the background, we have to take advantage of what is the opportunity of this being one of the few themes that is consensual from left to right to move forward. That is precisely why the Liberal Initiative sees, with some surprise and even with some sadness, the Left Block refuses to drag our draft resolution, which recommends to the Government a national inquiry into the sexual abuse of minors in Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u50	We recall that this draft resolution is a recommendation emerging from the hearing that was made to the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse of Children in the Catholic Church and emerged as a suggestion of Sociologist Ana Nunes of Almeida. As we have heard from that committee on the presentation of the final report, 'Give a voice to silence', in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, I recall that the Human Rights Channel of the Council of Europe says that one in five children — I repeat, Mrs. Members, one in five children—is the victim of sexual violence in Europe. The coordinator of the Independent Commission, at that hearing, Dr. Pedro Strecht confirmed this statistic, saying that it could also apply to Portuguese society. Therefore, it is unbelievable how a national survey of child sexual abuse, in a debate on strengthening child protection, does not fit into the topic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Bloc why you have refused to debate this draft resolution and if you do not think that your debate and vote would have been useful for the protection of our children and our young people. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u51	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u52	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions that have been asked and I would begin by answering in reverse to the one in which they have been put. Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, we have no problem with the initiative of the Liberal Initiative and we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u53	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u54	However, what we think is that bringing all the debate is not bringing the debate and that we should not underestimate such an important issue as safeguarding the young people in charge of the State. From that point of view, the commitment we have, both with the activists on the ground and with several decision makers, to discuss seriously the issue of family reception, the process for adopting and safeguarding the best care for the institutions, led us to have a serious issue in the debate and not to go to other issues. This issue, as you know, was discussed last week, there is already a working group to which you can take the draft resolution and I already tell you that you will have the favorable vote of the Left Block as well as perhaps another project that will cover an identical topic. There is no divergence here in the content, but we wanted this debate to be focused on something that is so often silenced and that we think it had the legitimacy and hombrety to have an extended debate in Parliament. Now, the Liberal Initiative has also found it, because it also has a legislative initiative to debate, and well, and I tell you that we will be accompanying it and we will vote in favour of it. Mrs Ofélia Ramos, I do not have the gift of finding that I have the ability to present solutions to all problems on Earth and the Left Block does not. We do not present the idea that we are the saviors of all problems, in particular in a theme where problems begin before the action of the State. As I said, and you will notice that I have been careful to say, the reception of children in charge of the state is a minor evil. This is because a previous evil has begun, because they were removed from their biological, adoptive family, to whom they had the care of them and who constituted a family with them. So there is a previous problem here, and on that we can correct our law, but we cannot prevent it. To the question you ask me, if this solves all the problems of children and young people in Portugal, I can only be serious and say: "No, it does not solve. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u55	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u56	But it's getting better, it's getting better. The question « improves, but are you sure it will improve at all? », I answer that I am sure that we will take steps to get better. I withdraw and take seriously your first sentence following the initiatives presented by the Left Block and therefore recognise that they are taking steps to improve the current situation. Who did we do it with? With whom did we learn—because no one was born taught on this matter? I confess that I did not say it initially on purpose, because I was going to keep that information to the end, but I can say now and remove the suspension from the table. I would like to thank publicly for Help, the association with whom we have already worked on previous initiatives and in these, a number of technicians and activists in the field who gave us feedback for us to present these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u57	Are they activists, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u58	They themselves say they don't understand why there is a restriction on family financial support. However, this is a rhetorical way of asking the question, because they know why it is: it is because the state wants to save money. The State considers that, since there is a family bond, there must be an obligation, but this obligation is, in fact, more moral than legal. From that point of view, the question they asked was exactly the same as we put in the bill. I hope that now, having clarified the rhetoric and the basis of our initiatives, you will also recognize the humility and open manner here to bring both the origin of the reasoning, or even the idea that we do not have the solution for everything, because the problems begin before the reception of the State. Mr Gilberto Anjos, I confess that your speech has caught me completely unaware. [[Laughter of PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] He was prepared for the Socialist Party to be able to say: "Well, but the government, already at the beginning of June, presented a plan to make a plan to respond to these circumstances. » I was expecting you to say, and I will correct it, that the government intends to have only 1200 institutionalized children at the end of 2030. It is not to reduce in 1200, it is to have only 1200 at the end of 2030. I hope we can get there before, but if it was by the end of 2030, I'd already be happy. I was waiting for you to discuss the subject, but you came to say that the resolution on this problem and that the issues of this debate are summed up by what? To the government's propaganda! It is not even the government's propaganda for children and young people at risk, nor is it generally the government's birth policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u59	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u60	Mr President, I do not know what debate has been called upon to be, but that is not the debate we have here. This debate is about children who probably come a large part of them, from broken families and that some kind of circumstance has led the State to withdraw them from their families. It's not about having free textbooks in school, it's not about having family allowance. It has to do with them being in charge of the State and being, in its very large majority, more than 95 % institutionalized. This issue should be serious on the part of the Socialist Party, and in particular on the part of the President of the Social Security Institute, who we know has. I want to believe that the Minister of Labour also does so and the Socialist Party should have it, not reducing the debate to a logic of propaganda, which is insulting — it is not insulting to the Left Block, we live well with it — for those on the ground who know the difficulties in responding to these situations. So, and even to answer a question that Mrs Ofélia Ramos has asked, we have all the opening up not to debate openly, in the field of expertise, but not even to force the vote on our initiatives. They will go down to the committee without a vote. For what? Here we bring all the experts who understand to bring, here we bring all the associations, all the activists and we arrive at a good solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u61	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u62	I believe that you cannot accuse us of doing different things about this. When we proposed changing the maximum age of adoption for the age of 18, we did it with exactly the same opening, and this initiative is currently in the field of expertise in 1. the Commission. Now, with this initiative, we have exactly the same process. Why? Because we believe that this matter is so serious that it cannot be hostage to electoral cycles, it is so serious that it cannot be hostage to any kind of populism and deserves a science-based understanding, which is an obligation we have as political decision-makers on this fundamental issue. I shall finish, Mr President, and I have been very much in time, saying that I hope that the debate will be higher from here on, because our intention is not to turn this issue into a weapon of shooting between parliamentary groups against the government. That doesn't make sense, that's not our goal. We just want to make a humble contribution so that we can respond to an atrocious statistics of more than 95% of the children in charge of the institutionalized state. This should not leave any of us rest and we hope that during this debate we will achieve the necessary convergence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u63	To submit Bill No. 838 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Creates the possibility of the host family to be a candidate for adoption, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Children are individual beings who require special protection from society for their vulnerability due to age. The Liberal Initiative has no doubt that the free and healthy development of children is essential not only to ensure its dignity in multiple dimensions, but also to combat child poverty and the discrepancy of opportunities in access to health and education. This is what we refer to when we talk about protecting children and young people: ensuring their healthy development and combating not only child poverty but also the discrepancy of opportunities in access to health and education. That is why during this Legislative Session the Liberal Initiative has presented concrete measures aimed at consolidating the rights of children and their healthy development. For us, there is only one unprotected child to be called to action, and that is precisely what we have done. Right at the beginning of the Legislature, in May 2022, the Liberal Initiative presented a project to empower the crime of exposure of less domestic violence, because we consider it the best way to protect the interests of children exposed to this crime. I recall that this project was usually cast with the votes against PS, PSD and PCP. In February this year, the Liberal Initiative presented another initiative that modifies the adoption process, extending the maximum age of the adopter to the age of 18. This initiative is at the centre of expertise, but we have no doubt that it will soon come into force. More recently, following some recommendations from the Independent Commission for the Study of Sexual Abuse in the Portuguese Catholic Church in the report « Give a Voice to Silence », the Liberal Initiative submitted projects to increase the limitation deadlines for crimes of sexual abuse, to conduct a national survey on the sexual abuse of minors in Portuguese society and also submitted a measure already contained in our electoral programme of 2022, the creation of the child provider, which was incomprehensiblely plunged not only by the absolute majority of the PS, and by its compressor role, but by the central bloc. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the work this House of the Republic has done in this area, there is still much to do. According to the data from the latest Annual Characterization Report on the Child and Youth Situation, the CASA Report — and we can all consult it — which is for the year 2021, Portugal currently has 6369 children who are in a foster situation, away from the family and out of the environment in which they have grown up and who have always known. of these thousands of children who are in need of shelter, only 3, 5 % are with foster families—are only 224 children. This means that 96 % of children are in residential care. That is why it is important to listen to those who deal with these issues in practice. And, in the opinion of those who read and know the national and international reality, Portugal is an anomaly when compared with similar and neighbouring countries, such as Ireland and Spain, where there are family reception rates around 90 % and 60 % respectively. These are the numbers and the facts that should make us reflect, but above all that should lead us to act and strengthen the legal framework, in order to meet that which was, and that is, the objective of the legislator to give priority to the placement of children and young people in foster families. Despite positive developments in family reception issues in the CASA report of 2021, these are still very low and it is not expected that this small evolution will be sufficient to change the current paradigm of family reception. It is necessary to rethink solutions that have already been on the table in recent legislative reforms and that have been discarded, but which, in our view, would be essential to make the family reception system more attractive for potential stakeholders. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, family reception is a measure of promotion and protection of a temporary character that consists of assigning the trust of the child or young person to a natural person or family, aiming at integration into the family environment, providing adequate care to their needs, well-being and education necessary to their development. Our children need policies that respect their best interests, but above all they need these policies to be effective and meet the objectives they propose. Achieving that host families can adopt children who receive it is essential and a decisive step that needs to correct and implement, since the possibility of adoption of children received by host families would make family welcome more attractive, increasing the number of these same families. If we need more foster families, we also need more incentives for families to want to welcome them. And this is not even a disruptive or unimplemented measure in so many other countries. For example, this is a solution that already exists in Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. This is a measure that helps to keep children out of danger, while ensuring their physical and psychological recovery and development. It would also be a solution that would benefit the child received, whose best interest always overlaps with the interests of the other actors involved. It would also be particularly beneficial for older children, whose possibility of adoption, when decreed the confidence measure for adoption, is more doubtful and difficult. In this sense, it would be in line with the legislator's intention to increase the age of children from 15 to 18 years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, where would these objectives be adversely affected by the adoption of families or by the adoption of host families? We couldn't understand. The resistance that seems to exist in our legal system as regards the extension of family reception leaves our children and our young people and is not taking into account the weighting of the best interests of the child. There is no alternative besides this project to be approved and worked at the site of specialty, for which we are available. If there is a matter in which the State must have intervention in the lives of people, this is one of them, precisely to ensure and defend the rights, freedoms and guarantees of our children and young people. This is what moves us: the defense of freedoms, the defense of rights and always the defense of the best interests of the child. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u65	You have a request for clarification from Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, for which you do not have time to answer. I ask Mrs Joana Mortágua whether she intends to maintain the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u66	Mr President, I intend to maintain the request for clarification and we give Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz 30 seconds in order to be able to respond. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u67	It is then recorded that the Left Block gives up 30 seconds, so I will forget that the Liberal Initiative has a negative time. It will be 30 seconds clean for Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz to be able to answer. You have the floor, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u68	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, the reception, as the honourable Member has well said, is a successful measure in a number of countries that have promoted it as opposed to the institutionalization of children. It is a consensual measure among many children's rights specialists, and this is given by the evidence that children develop emotionally, socially, even physically, in a much healthier way in a family context than in an institution. I remember that Rui Godinho, the head of the Directorate of Children and Youth of the Holy House of Mercy, said that, although it is so consensual that welcoming in the family context is better than welcoming in the context of the institution, we do not have a culture of welcoming in the family context. This is clear: Portugal has 96 % of its children in institutions, as opposed to Spain, for example, which has only 40 % of children in institutions. My question is: how do we change this culture, the culture of institutionalizing children instead of promoting growth and development in a family context? The Left Block and the Liberal Initiative have a joint proposal, which provides for the possibility of host families to be candidates for adoption. Those who do not agree with this proposal point to risks of frustrating expectations, whether the child has to return to the original family, whether the candidates for adoption see this waiting list in some way perverted. What I ask you is if you do not think that these risks can be completely surrounded in the name of the child's best interest to stay with the host family. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u69	In reply, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. As I began by saying in my request for clarification to the Left Block, this is one of the themes that is relatively consensual from left to right. Obviously, the Liberal Initiative considers that we must take steps and present some measures that, although they do not address the problem, as the PSD has said recently, present solutions for us to evolve. I also believe that we cannot make drastic developments and move forward to measures that can then distort the system, but both the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block have met with several associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u71	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u72	I'll finish. We also met with the Help Association, which pointed out the problem and the way. For this reason, the Liberal Initiative is available to receive these same contributions and is, of course, available to host the Left Block initiatives and to work in the field of speciality for the best interests of the child, because that is why we are here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u73	To present the Resolution Project No. 782 / XV / 1. a, has the floor for the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome all those present, particularly in the galleries, and the media. I begin by welcoming the Left Block for bringing this issue to debate. Although it has already been said here that it is a cross-cutting theme from left to right, the truth is, when we vote, we do not always see the same unanimity. When we talk about children who lack foster families, we cannot forget that in Portugal there are still few host families. Only about 3, 5 % of young children in institutionalized systems have access to family care. Although this number is low, we must not fail to say that in the last 15 years there have never been so many children and young people in the family care system, which is also due to a legislative amendment which this Parliament has adopted, which is now being promoted by the NAP and which is bearing fruit. But more measures need to be taken, including practices promoting family care and protecting the rights of children and young people. So let us look at legislation, particularly what is in place, because, following best international practices, the State should favour family reception to the detriment of residential reception, but, however, in practice, be the courts, whether the CPKJs (protection committees for children and young people) continue to look suspiciously at family reception, not considering it as a model of trust. The law is clear; however, it is not being applied and, in this case, the young are affected. We need not only that judges and CPCJ have more training on family reception, the legal framework and international good practices and its advantages, but also that the reception can be extended to children up to 18 years old, because the data tell us that the capacity to welcome young people, between 15 and 17 years old, was somehow diminished by 25 %, including separating brothers and disaggregating the family group, thus hurting their childhood. I would like to point out that we are accompanying the other initiatives aimed at enabling the adoption of children who may be in the model of family care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u75	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u76	I really am concluding, Mr President. The fact that we do not change the law will allow children to continue without a family doctor, without renewing the citizen's card, without access to day care or enrolling in a school precisely because they do not accept registration as a member of the family's household. For children and young people, we then know how to approve this set of initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u77	To present Resolution Projects Nos 786 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government create an inter-ministerial and multidisciplinary working group for a policy of zero institutionalization of children and young people by 2030 and 787 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the educational support programmes for children and young people in reception, such as the Home Plan, and that these programmes include concrete measures for children and young people and with specific educational needs, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u78	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Dear Citizens in the galleries: I present Projects Nos 786 / XV / 1. a and 787 / XV / 1. a, which are the contribution that the Free will wants to join in this debate, at good time launched by the Left Block, to whom it is fair and appropriate, more than simply protocol, which thanks itself for bringing up a topic of such great importance, for more taking into account the numbers of the CASA 2021 report, which, despite the title, was only known at the end of 2022, and which gives us an account of these 6369 children and young people in reception in Portugal, who have already been mentioned. of these, 68% are at school age, but only 39%, at ages 15 to 17, are in secondary education, so many are deprived of the training they would be entitled to and need for the subsequent phases of their life, particularly with the difficulties that they already have in the first years of life. Almost 10 % are foreign children, almost 7% have severe mental health or mental illness. We know that the pandemic also resulted in the removal of these children from schools, so even more than the other children who had less access to school during these years, so that we propose one of the draft resolutions that we present here the strengthening of the CASA plan, so that, as with other educational support programs, the specific educational needs of these children and young people and, in particular of foreigners, are framed and have additional measures to support learning and inclusion. We were wondering how we can change a reality in which Portugal has numbers far below other countries with regard to the institutionalization of children. How can we get closer to countries that have far less institutionalized children? I believe that, more than having a gradual reduction goal, which in any case will always have to be our reality of implementation on the ground, Portugal must take as its goal that the ideal is zero institutionalized children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u79	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u80	This means having, as we propose in our Resolution Project No 787 / XV / 1. a, that there is a working group that designs policies towards zero institutionalization. Shall we stay there? Is it incompatible or not with the goals already proposed on the ground? It's not. It is certainly possible to do both at the same time. Says a well-known African proverb that it takes a village to educate a child. We've said several times that these are our children. The Republic cannot go beyond its destination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u81	To present draft resolution No 789 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to strengthen the Child and Youth Protection Committees have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A country with present and future is a country that places children and the fulfilment of their rights in a central place of their political options. For the PCP, this goal is absolutely summit in the project and political alternative we defend. The Constitution, our Constitution, translates this priority and tells us that children have the right to the protection of society and the state for their integral development, especially against all forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression and against the abusive exercise of authority in the family and other institutions. It also tells us that it is the State responsible for providing special protection for children, in any form, deprived of a suitable family environment. The right to protection and special care, the right to love and affection, respect for their identity, the right to difference and social dignity, the right to be desired, to be heard, to their needs to be heard, to physical integrity and to adequate food,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u83	And due!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u84	...to clothing, housing, health, safety, education and education are the rights of everyone and every child. But the policy that serves the great and powerful, the politics that blackmails, which invokes and cynically uses the popes of the market and the inhuman rules of the institutions that serve it, the policy that does not protect time for the family, for the collective experience, the policy that causes the homes to lose in the name of the interests and profits of the banks, the policy that does not combat inequalities and does not put this aspect as first and fundamental on the horizon of society's development makes, in fact, fundamental rights do not reach all children born in our country and in the world. Thus, even with fundamental rights signed, even though much has evolved in the face of what had been lived five decades during fascism, the daily life of thousands of children in our country is quite different from the law and not all know the same rights. The lives of many children today are marked by multiple forms of neglect, discrimination, social exclusion and effective violence. The life of countless children is not the life to which they have the right and the data of the promotion of protection of children and young people demonstrate a reality that has to be an alert cry. In 2022, CPCJ accompanied 74 191 children, of whom 28 396 had a promotion and protection process. There is once again an increase over the previous year, as well as the trend remains with regard to the categories of danger, in which most situations are domestic violence, followed by negligence and, thirdly, the behaviours of danger of children and young people. The increase in the number of open processes and accompanying children, as well as the complexity and urgency of each case for each child, requires the State's response to be prompt, attentive, careful and quality. Requirements that are not always compatible with the strangulation of services and the overload of professionals who make up CPCJs. We need to adapt the means we have at the time of the children. And children's time is not the same as adults' time. The time to intervene with a child at risk is always short and all children are entitled to protection and a decent life project. Despite the dedicated work of the CPCJ elements, the work carried out in the area of prevention and efforts for a coordinated and articulated work with community institutions, the economic and social situation and the lack of human resources eventually crush this capacity of intervention. Therefore, in this debate, which focuses mainly on children who are no longer in the natural environment of life, we also want to bring this intervention up-to-date, a first-line intervention. It is that for a true possibility of intervention that prevents or puts an end to situations that may affect the child's safety, health, training, education or integral development, it is necessary to give the CPCJs the opportunity, in fact, to support and accompany families and implement the intervention plan that is defined. For this reason, the project we bring here calls on the Government to take the necessary measures to resolve the needs of technicians in the protection committees of children and young people, so that technicians in the field of social security and health are appointed on a full-time basis, so that the Government, in conjunction with the CPCJs, sets out the measures necessary to resolve, as a matter of priority, the deficiencies of temporary and emergency reception structures, such as the measures necessary to ensure the existence of conditions for integrated work with families of origin of children and young people signaled. Mrs. Members, today, we are discussing a set of projects that take place in various areas, essentially with children who are no longer, or have never been, in the natural environment with their families. But it is time to take more steps: we increase the age — or we will soon increase — up to 18 years, to which a young person can be adopted; a PCP bill has been approved that allows the resumption of reception measures, when there is a hasty exit and that establishes the implementation of empowerment programs; several adoption projects are under discussion, which have to take care of work in the field of specialty. But we need more, we're not wrong. We need means, we need investment, we need to value the technicians and professionals who do these jobs; we need to increase family reception, yes, and help families; we need to raise the conditions of residential reception, the conditions of the institutions themselves; we need to train the professionals, but we need to fix them so that they do not have a rotativity that makes any increase in qualification impossible; the government must finally publish the residential reception port which has been delayed since 2019. When we talk about children's rights, our greatest wealth, the arguments that place deficits, debts or our international commitments as priority are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u86	This is about our future, it is about children, and this must therefore be the priority of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u87	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered, in order to make a request for clarification, to a Member of the Left Block, in particular Mrs Isabel Pires, whom I shall immediately address. Please, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u88	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, we agree with the diagnosis you have made and with the identification of the problems, which, as we have already said, are a priori to this very institutionalization. In fact, there are a number of factors that need to be verified and must be answered from the point of view of public policy, not only in terms of income, but also in other matters that you have mentioned here. Mrs Deputy, I will ask you about the projects that the Left Block presents today, but also about the PCP. The CFP brings here an issue which from our point of view is very important, which is the lack of the resources of the CPCJ itself. In fact, it is not a new debate, either here in the Assembly of the Republic or in other forums. There is a lack of technicians, there is an overload of work which leads to that the initial answers are often not given, or then not given in the way they should be given. There is, in fact, a pressing need for strengthening the CPCJ structures, of course, but what we would like to ask is about the projects that the Left Block presents, because it seems to us that they are not exclusive, with the strengthening of the CPCJ media and technicians. Looking at the percentages and data we have in relation to Portugal, compared with several other countries, it is absolutely incomprehensible how, as a country, as a society, we can accept these numbers and that we can have so many thousands of institutionalized children, when all technicians, all people who work daily with these matters tell us that family reception is what, perhaps, safeguards the best way not only the interests of the child but also its own development. Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable Member about the projects presented by the Left Block. How does the Portuguese Communist Party stand? And can you also, in particular, follow up on this in-depth work, which we need and which we believe is unanimous in this Parliament? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u89	In reply, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u90	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, I would like to thank you for this. In fact, time is always scarce to address the multiplicity of projects that are on the table today and, therefore, said we wanted to add and not subtract this debate and work in prevention, seeking that we do not arrive — we know that this is impossible — to situations in which it withdraws from the environment, which is always preferential. Therefore, in this measure, of course, we have no opposition to what is proposed by the various projects of the Left Block, which, in fact, have these dimensions verified and have a dimension of training which, for us, is absolutely essential, of valuing professionals, because without the training and appreciation of professionals, they are of little value, because then people will go away and cannot contribute to the improvement of the protection system itself and the reception itself. We also need to work with host families. Finally, there is a set of aspects that the projects of the Left Block go through and in which we also revisit ourselves and that, of course, we are available to work in the field of specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u91	That's how we get it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u92	That's what's necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u93	You now have the floor of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we talk about children and young people, about their promotion and their protection. There is now an important note to make: when we talk about the promotion and protection of children and young people, we are talking about their rights. We are talking about the right to a life project, the right to housing, education, health, well-being, protection, participation and non-discrimination, adequate care and its integral development. In all situations and in all situations relating to children and young people, it must be always and above all the best interest of the child, as in fact determines the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u96	But for this, we all need to bear in mind that the measures that implement the best interests of the child cover an extended set of situations, ranging from the need to protect a child to the need to correct a young person with anti-social behaviour, qualified as a crime. If it is true that the legal regime differentiates children in danger from young perpetrators of crime-qualified facts, the truth is that there are also links between the Education Protection Act and the Protection Act of children and young people in danger. This set of measures—because there is a set of measures that apply to children and young people—is not compatible with isolated views and with timely changes. [[PSD applause.]] It was precisely for this reason that the PSD proposed the creation of a possible sub-committee for juvenile justice and the system for the promotion and protection of children and young people, in order to reflect on the need for public policies in different planes, a reflection focused on the analysis of the phenomenon of juvenile crime, the analysis of the educational protection regime, the analysis of the regime for the promotion and protection of children and young people, the functioning and training of the child and youth protection committees in danger. And for what purpose? In order to initiate concrete measures, capable of improving the rules and answers that exist today, consolidate what is right and correct and improve what is not right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u98	But, as has been usual, the Socialist Party, which does not even let it do, has led this proposal of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] So what happens to this Socialist Party behavior? What happens is that isolated proposals and topical changes occur, when the path should be a path of integrated structural proposals and responses to childhood and youth. We therefore regret that the Socialist Party has made this vision unfettered and integrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u100	Mrs. Members, as regards the concrete measures that are under discussion here, mostly focused on family reception, it is important to say the following: they are worthwhile proposals and are answers, some, which aim to improve and encourage family reception, which must indeed be a priority. Growing up in a family environment must be the priority in all public policies. Currently in Portugal, 96, 5 % of children receiving care are in institutional care and only 3, 5 % are in family care. It can't be. We must reverse this situation and give priority to the integration of children into the family, to the integration of children into the family. [[PSD applause.]] Family care is effectively one of these responses, which guarantees children and young people integration into the family environment, as well as adequate care for their needs, well-being and integral development, and which also ensures the physical and psychological recovery of children and young victims of any form of exploitation or abuse. It is therefore a response that enables the child or the young person to ensure a socio-family environment suitable for their development and the development of their personality, in place of the natural family, while the child does not have conditions. It must therefore, as I have said, be a privileged measure in the face of residential reception, and therefore we also follow the initiatives that are under discussion here today. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this path is short. And why is it short? Because to speak in the best interests of children and young people is to speak in family care—it is, yes— but it is also to talk about accompanying biological families, helping them to overcome the danger in which children and young people live, it is to talk about adoption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u102	... is to talk about civil sponsorship, is to talk about child and youth protection committees and the need for their strengthening and training and is to talk about the educational protection system. [[PSD applause.]] To speak of the best interests of the child is to speak in all areas, in all matters, in all dimensions of life that are able to guarantee to all children a project of life, an integral development and well-being. We therefore hope that, in our specialty, we will be able to do this missing debate, in-depth and integrated reflection and that we will be able to go further in the responses to childhood and youth. Always, but always, with the guarantee of ensuring the best interests of the child, in any decision taken. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u103	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification, on the one hand, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, of Mr Pedro Anastácio, and, on the other hand, of the Left Block, of Mrs Isabel Pires. The question is: How do you want to respond to the two requests for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u104	All together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u105	All together. Then, in this case, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to leave a word of congratulation to the authors of the agenda, insofar as this agenda deals with the protection of children and young people in danger and must deserve the mobilization of all. I leave a greeting word to the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u107	They're the same, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u108	Then I wanted to say that we got here and we see that there's been a way. It is true that there is some indefinition of opposition. On the one hand, it is said that it does not and does not allow it to do, on the other hand, it is said that it is propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u109	Of course he doesn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u110	Here, the oppositions have to be defined. Either it's happening or it's not happening. It can't be everything and its opposite at the same time. [[PSD protests.]] And then, as I said, we arrived here and we see a way: the Guarantee for Children, which today covers about 170,000 children and has the ambition to remove 161,000 children from the risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2030, the complement of the family allowance, which already covers 150,000 children today, and the path of free day care centres, which now covers 60,000 families. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] To say this is not propaganda. This is a reflection of those who feel that they have followed a path, a path that is safe, insofar as the protection of children seems invincible to us of the social issue and the cycle of poverty. And since, in this dimension, it is important to break the cycle of poverty, these measures are relevant, until it is found that many of the children benefiting from such measures are at school age.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u111	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u112	However, it seems to us that, in relation to what the Block proposes, as regards the expansion of economic support, economic support has already been reflected, in particular in Decree-Law No 12 / 2008, which have been even updated in Decree-Law No 139 / 2019, and which already includes economic support measures, both for children and young people in family care and for those who benefit from measures in the natural environment of life, support with parents, support with other family members, confidence in the right person and support for self-reliance of life. It also seems to us that, during this debate, there has been some confusion between adoption and family reception. First of all, it is to be noted that the adoption institute has nothing to do with the system of promotion and protection. These are complementary systems that touch each other. However, they present different paradigms. Now, a person or a couple who intends to adopt, who intends to take a definitive link, for life, with a child and the assumption of family reception are different, and even opposed, because candidates are at the beginning to be available and prepared to temporarily host a child and to preserve the child's connection with their biological family, when there are them, in such a way as to collaborate actively in the process of repairing the damage that led to the withdrawal of the child, and to promote the maintenance of the bond with the child, so that the child resumes as soon as possible. So I wanted to leave a question: how do we protect and safeguard children who, above all, have the right to return to their lives and, only when that is not entirely possible, are other life projects re-equarated? This was a matter not necessarily for the PSD, but that could stay for reflection for the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u113	Oh, I didn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u114	the PSD, in the background, wanted to ask something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u115	Now he's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u116	The PSD questioned the Left Block and said that this was the result of a legislative process that was not considered, reflected and a series of other elements that justified it. And the Government has a working group — there is, another of those working groups that, as a rule, the oppositions criticize and devalue — to, exactly, review the general regime of the Cable Protection Process, which includes different elements of the different governmental areas, because this has a cross-cutting nature, and which aims to promote the conception and widespread application of a uniform model for the assessment of the danger and improvement of the system of protection and promotion of children and young people in danger, improving their effectiveness, simplifying their process and humanising their response. This legislative amendment is being prepared and, in essence, what I am asking the PSD is whether, in this spirit around the best interests of the child, the Block has become available to have, working its initiatives in the specialty, and being up to the characteristics of the process that the PSD demanded the Left Block and that the Government has effectively developed, we can count, at a stage of speciality, on improving this regime and on a better response that humanizes this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u117	For a request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u118	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I would like to thank you for your intervention on behalf of the PSD. In fact, as we have already had the opportunity to say in this debate, there are several issues that approach us in this diagnosis, but also in the way we look at possible solutions and, therefore, we will certainly have this debate, and that is important. There are always several data and instruments, even Europeans, that tell us exactly the way forward, such as the European Union Strategy for the Rights of the Child and European Child Guarantee. We are all told that the path must be deinstitutionalization and that, therefore, family care should be a priority for these cases. We do not forget that there are other matters, when we talk about the best interests of the child, as you mentioned here very well, that should be taken into account in more general policies, but what we would like to ask, at this time, is if you do not consider the PSD to be safe these first steps that we are here trying to remove some restrictions, to give more training to these families, but also to children themselves for their empowerment in future life. Do you not believe that these steps can already be safe for what may mean an important step in the progress we need? If it is true that we need measures and policies in several areas in relation to the interests of children in this particular area—because we have brought a very concrete matter—I wonder whether the PSD does not believe that there can be some safe steps already and that they have the support of a number of technicians and many people working in this area so that we can effectively reverse the data that we cannot accept in our country, which is less than 4 % of children who are in family care. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u119	In reply, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u120	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mrs Isabel Pires, whom I thank for the question. In fact, there is more here than we are united than what separates us in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u121	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u122	But the honourable Member asks directly whether the PSD considers that the initiatives presented here by the Left Block are safe to give the answers that are necessary for children. As far as this is concerned, I think it has become clear, even by the intervention of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares himself, that there is no certainty. That is why we have said that this is indeed a step and that it is right from the very outset that we are all debating here, but we have to listen to entities, we have to make these changes with the entities that are on the ground and who work on these matters every day. That is what we want to do, and that is what the PSD will do with all humility and always with the prospect of improving the response to children and young people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u123	As for Mr Pedro Anastácio, whom I naturally also thank for the question, will allow me to tell you that you are something confused,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u125	...did not hear my speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u126	Exactly! I wasn't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u127	...so I have some difficulty answering you, because I don't know very well what you asked me. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u128	No one's got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u129	Neither did he!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u130	The honourable Member has said everything and has said otherwise. So, let's see. The honourable Member began by saying that there is a lot of contradiction here, that the PSD is beginning to say that the Socialist Party does not do or lets it do and that it accuses the Socialist Party of making propaganda. And he asks the honourable Member: "So do you or don't do it? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” He does, he does, but that's not what he needs. What is needed is for the government to act to give answers to children and young people, and that is not what it is doing. Mr President, I will give you an example and leave you a question: where is the door to regulate residential reception? She's been long claimed, and there's a long time she should be out here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u131	Mr President, where is the result of the working group? The Government and the honourable Member continue, and he has come here again, to report advertisements, and that is not what is necessary. If all matters require seriousness, this is required for most reasons. We will be serious and we will have a serious debate, join the debate and see that it is effectively possible and that we must improve what needs to be improved and that it is not all right. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u132	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the ideal world, all children and young people would have the opportunity to live dignified and healthy with their family, biological or adoptive. The reality, however, is often a stepmother of this ideal, and in the real world host families are an inescapable reality for most children and young people who are in a vulnerable situation. For these children and young people, who face difficulties in their families of origin, whether because of abuse, neglect, domestic violence or other similar situations, providing a safe environment, which guarantees their well-being and healthy development, is not only an option for society, but a priority that needs to be guaranteed by the modern State. Echoing these premises, in the preamble to Decree-Law No 139 / 2019, which establishes the system for the implementation of family reception, measures to promote the rights and protection of children and young people in danger, the Government welcomes this perspective, favouring the family reception of these children to the detriment of their institutionalization. Through this decree-law are thus recognized, implicitly and explicitly, various benefits associated with the family care of these children and young people in situations of vulnerability, among which are benefits of emotional, social and educational order, propedeutics, preparation for adult life and ethical and social reference. In emotional terms, many vulnerable children and young people go through traumatic experiences. Hospitality for a family that provides them with affection and stability can make a difference between a life marked by adversity and a life of opportunity. [[Congrats from the CH.]] From this point of view, host families are a safe haven, providing love and understanding these children and young people. This type of positive environment is fundamental to its recovery and to its healthy emotional development. In addition, through family reception, these children and young people have the opportunity to create emotional ties and develop meaningful relationships, in which living with well-structured foster families provides an example of healthy relationships based on mutual respect and peaceful resolution of conflicts. For example, these children and young people learn to deal with their emotions properly, to communicate effectively and to establish healthy relationships with others. In addition, by being integrated within a family, they have the opportunity to participate in family, community and school activities, which contributes to building bonds of belonging and acceptance. For all these reasons, and even by the conservative matrix of the coming Party, which considers the family as the basic cell of society, this is a matter that deserves the greatest attention and relevance in the days that run,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... being pressingly recognizing and valuing the transformative impact on the life of children and young people in a vulnerable situation that host families may have, if all the conditions necessary to exercise their responsibilities are granted to them. We have examples such as Ireland, where 65% of children removed from families are in foster families; 25% to 27% in extended families; and 8% to 10% in residential care. 15 years ago they were like us. In Spain, in the United Kingdom or Australia, about 90 % of these children are in care of foster families in Portugal only 3 %. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u134	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u135	Portugal must follow what is best done in the world. To that end, it is enough that it begins to implement what is already stipulated in Decree-Law No 139 / 2019. in this regard, unlike so many others in which the government is affluent of everything to announce and nothing to achieve, we are dealing with extremely fragile citizens, who need an effective response and action today. in this sense, the Government cannot exempt itself from its responsibility, with the excuse that the number of foster families will be increased when more means are made available for this purpose. This exercise, more than self-indulgence, is an unsustainable hypocrisy, because it is the government itself that has the power to provide these means. Such hypocrisy, even for a non-Northern government, is intolerable. A State that does not care for its children is a State that questions its own existence. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u136	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Faro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u137	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking today about children and young people, we are talking today about the rights of children, abuse in childhood, family reception, institutional reception and we are talking about life projects, life projects we want to sustain. In essence, we are talking about the basis of our system for the promotion and protection of children and young people, for which Portugal has made a fruitful path in this area, and about 24 years after the start of this mixed intervention strategy — judicial action and formal action — is indeed the time to assess. These are subjects that call us here in this plenary, in this Parliament, in the House of Democracy, but which must also call all people for a deep reflection and a serious debate, which may increase our knowledge of the topic for better action. But this is also the time to list what we have done, what we already know about this phenomenon and the path we are going to continue. It is still time to talk about what we don't know and we want to improve. Therefore, we are always guided by this principle of assessing to act, always with the aim of improving the development and well-being of many children and young people and that, due to the absence of socio-economic conditions, negligence, ill-treatment, violence, cannot remain in their biological family. The current government has developed the National Strategy for the Rights of Children 2021 - 2024, approved by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 112 / 2020 of 18 December, which is already listed here, and is a strategy that covers five distinct areas, and two of them are fundamental and I would like to highlight them. I stress priority 4, to prevent and combat violence against children, and also priority 5, on the production of instruments and scientific knowledge that enhance a global view of the rights of children and young people. Within these principles and strategies, we must never forget the ethical and ethical principles of all professionals involved in these areas and in this theme — social service, psychology and judiciary. The principle of subsidiarity, on the one hand, as regards the primacy of the best interests of the child, already briefly referred and repeatedly repeated, on any other interest worthy of protection and, where possible, compulsory hearing and participation of the child in all acts which concern him. And this principle of subsidiarity in the intervention and adoption of measures that must be, at an early stage, in the proximity services, in order to be able to detect early all these ill-treatments and situations of negligence, and also in the promotion of parental competences, through the CPCG and ultimately by the courts. This principle of subsidiarity should also apply in the application of measures, try to ensure that the first measures are effectively the child's stay in his/her natural environment, or to enable the return to the extended family, and, as an end-of-line response, the adoption. Always in the sense that residential reception or other solutions, and when they become necessary, are for the smallest possible time and, if necessary, enable them to live an independent life. The latest report by the Committee on the Protection of Children and Youth shows a total of 13,523 measures implemented. We know, and here too it has been reiterated, that the first is support to the parents, the third position is residential reception and the last is family reception. There is no doubt that in Portugal there is still a residential regime, which is a majority, and this transition must be carried out with great care. If, on the one hand, there are studies, and we know that the academy reflects these studies and defends family reception, because it develops greater binding, another type of development of children, it is not so liquid that it is always in a positive situation. That is why this transition must be carried out with great care. Since in Portugal there is still a great ignorance of this measure, with the heavy inheritance we have seen at the level of residential reception, as a majority response, it is necessary to deconstruct the image that this is the best option for the life of the child—that is also what we are working on—and then to invest in awareness-raising, training, giving more and better means to these host families. Although we agree with that, and to conclude, which is recommended here today, even because what is mentioned is consensual in the community and deserves our full attention—and therefore our greeting also to the Left Block Parliamentary Group on this agenda—it is important to strengthen that the Government has a working group that is already in place, with the aim of promoting the conception and implementation of generalised measures in the uniform model for assessing the danger and improving the systems for the protection and promotion of children and young people. Therefore, the Government has already received this report and is preparing legislative amendments shortly, so we must wait for these conclusions and that assessment to take action. Quoting Prof. Maria Clara Sottomayor, « what is the child’s interest? » — what do we always have to weigh —, biological identity or affective relationship? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u138	Mrs Patrícia Faro finished with an excellent question and now she will have other questions, particularly from Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u139	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Faro has brought us the liquidity of some arguments with which the Left Block aims to promote host families as the rule for children who are now institutionalized. The truth is that we can discuss these arguments with specialists, of course, and that is what we want to do, but there is a reality that is very solid and very structural, which is the reality of 96% of children in Portugal, which are institutionalized. We are not at a small step from an ideal reality, we are at a monstrous distance from the ideal, which is recognised as having no institutionalized children and all being in a family context; or from what is closest to us, which is the reality of Spain, for example, where there are 60 % children in a family context;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u140	First, we need to know what a family is! What is a family? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u141	... or even the government's own goal, which is, in seven years, having more than 1,000 children in family context than we have today, children who are institutionalized. What I ask you is whether the myriad of proposals presented here by the Left Bloc on the preparation for independent life, on the hiring of the technicians of the foster homes, on the conditions for support to host families, on the adoption of older children and on the access, too, of host families to the possibility of adoption, are not measures that contribute to the achievement of, as far as it is not, and it would be a lot, the aim of the working group which the Government has set up. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u142	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Patrícia Faro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner, for the question you are raising. In fact, what we are dealing with does not go against the arguments put forward by the Left Block, quite the contrary. The Socialist Party is available for debate in the specialty and the Government is also working on this. I may have misunderstood my communication, but what we obviously want in addition to that reality, which we do not deny, is always working proactively and in this principle of subsidiarity, in which if the situations are detected early we may not subject these children to a later phase. I would, of course, like to reiterate our willingness to engage in dialogue and once again thank you for the matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u144	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we thank the Block on the Left for the marking of this debate, which deals with a subject which is so expensive to us. The system of promotion and protection of children and young people in danger has serious deficiencies and suffers from the lack of technical and human resources, leading often to the fact that it cannot intervene in time to protect and save children and young people in danger. We all know situations of children who, despite being signalled by child and youth protection committees, have had tragic outcomes, and this cannot continue to happen. CPCJs must be equipped with conditions and resources that enable them to work effectively; they must be properly equipped to intervene, timely and effectively, where a child is at risk. The fact that a child is signalled by CPKJ does not always bring protection, and that is what is worrying, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u147	CPCJs must be strengthened and trained and the family courts and minors must be provided with the resources necessary for the protection and protection of children, which should have been done long ago by a government that has been in power for more than eight years. [[PSD applause.]] I recall that the Portuguese legal system has legislative instruments to protect children, particularly vulnerable beings, especially when they have contact with the judicial system, although there is always room for the legislative process to be improved. Portugal ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, of the United Nations, in September 1990, as well as its optional protocols, which constituted an important framework for the promotion and protection of the rights of children and respect for their best interests. Several legislative changes have taken place in order to focus attention on children as subjects of rights and not only the subject of duties. We have left fatherly power and we have dedicated parental responsibilities; the General System of the Child Protection Process has replaced the OTM ( Child Protection Organization ) ; the Promotion and Protection Act and the Education Protection Act have validated judicial and non-judicial interventions with young people in danger or in criminal situations; we have also legislated about the right of hearing of the child in the processes that concern him; we dedicate guiding principles in the civil protection processes and in the promotion and protection processes. Our children would be supposed to be protected by the system that adults with responsibilities have created, but they are not. [[PSD applause.]] Every day, children and young people participate in the judicial system, either as victims, or as accused, either as witnesses or as the object of decisions within the framework of parental responsibilities, children signalled and in need of urgent protection. All of them, children who just want to be children. They want the shelter and protection of a lap, they want to play carelessly, they want to live in a safe home and dream of a happy future, they want to be able to give the hand to those who can teach them to walk through life. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to give our children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is intolerable to remain and lack of human and technical resources that fatten in the judgments of families and minors and related services, such as the social system. The lack of conditions of the building of family judgments and CPCJs is a constant — see, for example, the Family and Minor Court of the Land of Aveiro. The delay in performing ATEs (special technical hearings) or mediations within the framework of the regulation of parental responsibilities is unacceptable. The delay in performing medical-legal expertise or in assessing the personality, parental abilities or in assessing the affective linkage of a particular family aggregate makes it impossible to respond adequately to the needs of children. The laxity of social security reports paralyzes the processes, and many technicians, in rare numbers for the volume of service, do not even come out of the offices to see the conditions in which children live, simply calling the parties to social security instead of seeing them, with harmful consequences in the seizure of the natural environment of children and young people in danger. The poor working conditions of the system must be added that the strike of judicial officials — absolutely legitimate and fair, as I have often had the opportunity to say — has caused unprecedented paralysis in the courts, with thousands of difficulties in the jurisdiction of minors to be postponed, leaving the lives of children suspended and in suffering. The inability of the Minister of Justice to negotiate with judicial officials and the iron arm that persists in maintaining with these professionals has caused inquantifiable damage in the juvenile jurisdiction, also to its size. In conclusion, it should be noted that we understand and adhere to the kindness underlying the initiatives under discussion and that we will make them viable. We understand, however, that the lack of human and technical means to which the Government has voted the system of promotion and protection is demanding and requires a robust and integrated response, as the PSD has always defended, an answer that effectively protects those who need the most, who are our children and young people. PSD will always be on the front line of child protection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u148	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Loff now has the floor, to whom I remember that he has one minute and 39 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President, for reminding me. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament : INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) said last January that the risk rate of child poverty was 18 %. However, the Executive Director of UNICEF Portugal warned of the need for a more current and profound study of the factors that each year push thousands of children living in the country to the poverty line, and she pointed them out - very clearly - and I think the government should consider this very. One is the housing crisis and another is the inflation in food and electricity, that is, in the essential goods that threaten to shoot, says the Executive Director of UNICEF, plus 10 000 or 20 000 children for the poverty threshold, despite the measures presented by the Government. This is not the way the rights of children are respected or fulfilled, in the choice between additional or structural measures. Children and families do not need charity or assistance in combating child poverty, because the poverty of children is the poverty of their families and their resolution requires structural measures. Complying with the rights of children is strengthening their social protection and increasing and extending the family allowance with a view to universalization, because the allowance is a right of the child. In this regard, to repeat permanently the love for children, to state their rights or to introduce personal phrases in the political discourse and then to vote against the universality of the right to family allowance, as the PS and PSD have done, I am sorry, but it is not only morally doubtful as it is politically incoherent and insincere.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u151	Access to public child support services and equipment, a public daycare network, the guarantee of public pre-school, the replacement of AECs ( curricular enrichment activities) by a national free time employment plan, a doctor and family nurse for all children, access to pediatricians and consultations on psychology, nutrition, visual and oral health in primary health care, are these fundamental responses to the fulfilment of the rights of children and families. The proposals that the CFP has, in this sense, well affirm the left-wing alternative we stand for. That children grow up and develop in harmony and that they are guaranteed the right to be children, so that parents can be present and accompany all these moments are not privileges; they are the rights of children and parents and therefore inseparable to each other. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u152	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I must also, of course, welcome the Block on the Left for finally agreeing to this reality, since in February 2023 the party came forward here with a proposal to reduce the number of children institutionalized and guarantee support in the post- adoption process — this in a country where more and more children are returned to institutions after they have been adopted, once again through the experience of abandonment — and, see, the Block on the Left abstained and the Socialist Party has gone away. So welcome to the debate! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u154	But I would also like to begin this intervention by quoting someone who must be dear to the left, Alexandra Kollontai, a feminist who participated in the leadership of the Soviet Revolution, who said that the family was no longer necessary for the state, as it was in the past: "Can this be called the destruction of the family by violent means? Or forced separation from your mother's child? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u155	Oh, holy patience!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u156	Hey! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u157	« It must be said, before, “has passed the time of the old family,” said Alexandra Kollontai. This, because there is a Marxist idea, which has come so far, very perverse, and that needs to be fought: the children are not property of the state, never! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u158	What does that have to do with it? There's no patience to stop this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u159	The State is a concept after the concept of natural family and this is why the State cannot put and dispose of the life of children, ignoring their best interests, their well-being and the well-being of their families. In Portugal, hundreds of children are withdrawn from their families arbitrarily or because of their poverty — this in the country where socialism has only been able to multiply poor. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u160	We were successively convicted by the European Court of Human Rights by abusive withdrawals from children from their families. That is why, in Portugal, we have stories of families like Liliana Melo, to whom seven children were taken away, not because there was no love in that house, not because there were abuses or ill-treatments, but only because there were economic deficiencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u162	On the way, they separated brothers, these children spent years institutionalized and the mother saw it being proposed to her as a measure of tubal lactation. All this here, in the country of human rights, in the country of women's rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u163	It's a shame! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u164	It is not nice to say that, but it is necessary: there is a hypocrisy of the social state that needs to be denounced. This social state often serves itself and not citizens, and this is not about destroying the social state, but about returning its original purpose to it. What a difference would not make the 1000 € and little that each IPSS (private institution of social solidarity) receives for each child if this value had been attributed to the hands of that mother who remained without her children! What difference would it not make if those techniques had sat with that mother and asked 'how can I help her? "! It is for this very reason that the Arrival will enter a project, so that women such as Liliana can resort to these decisions without the payment of bails, because poverty cannot condemn families to their separation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I conclude with an idea that, to arrive, it is fundamental. We speak of institutionalized children without asking for more supervision—and, above all, the criminalization of techniques that produce adulterated reports—as well as without putting an end to conflicts of interest between judges and technicians who preside over institutions and, in parallel, withdraw children from their families is to compact with the violence of withdrawing a child from their natural family, especially from a poor family, so that we can fill in the boxes of any IPSS or institution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u165	To arrive, Portuguese children deserve much more. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u166	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Removing a child from a family is a decision that bears all the weight of the state. It is certainly a difficult decision for the technicians who decide to do so, for the courts that give the order. It is a decision that can only be taken from the discharge of the enormous responsibility of the State before that child. 20 years ago, economic shortage was a reason, let's say, more normal than it is today to take children. Today, it is more common for children to retire from parental conflicts, for reasons of negligence, for reasons of ill-treatment that call into question the physical, psychological integrity and the rights of children. The responsibility of the State to those children is much greater than the responsibility of the State, which is already enormous, before any child. Therefore, it is in the State that the obligation to prevent risks, of all risks, including the prevention of the risks that institutionalization brings to all children who are institutionalized. It is our obligation to review the models in which these children are institutionalized. It is true that we are no longer at the beginning of the 20th century, in the scenario of that Broadway musical, Annie, of orphanages with absolutely miserable conditions, but it is true that we are still at a time when the excess of institutionalization is a reality: 96% of children are institutionalized. All studies indicate that this increases the risk of children seeing their future compromised, a risk that falls on the state account, and that is why we have to review the models. There are studies, including psychiatrists, that compared the models of family reception and institutional reception and that say that, from a cognitive point of view, of intelligence quotient, of psychological problems, of social relations, of physical growth, in all cases institutionalization is a worse option. About Portugal, this psychiatrist who recently met with ProChild at a conference at a Portuguese university said the following: « Three lessons—first, the child is always better in a family than in an institution; second, the sooner it is for the family better; third, the more stable this situation is. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's why we need to review the models. The model that we currently have tells us that a host family is a temporary measure, but the truth is that many of the children who are subjected — I say'subjected', but not in the pejorative sense — host families end up seeing as definitive their departure from their original family. What is asked is whether it is fair or whether it is logical, after having been created bonds of affection, love, care, respect between a host family and a child who becomes in conditions of adoption, that this host family is forbidden to adopt this child, breaking all the rules that have been established, all the advantages of the host family in relation to the child's development. In the name of what is this prohibition imposed? A waiting list? From the bureaucratic concept set up above and in front of the child's right? of expectations? But whose expectations? Because when there is affection with the host family, there are always expectations, regardless of whether or not the child is in a position to adopt. A risk of approaching the family of origin, from which the child was removed for ill-treatment? So, there's another problem. If there is a risk of approaching the family of origin, it is because the State has failed. The host families go through long selection and very specific training processes. If they don't happen, it's because the state failed. Nadine Santos, who belongs to a host family, wrote in the Public recently: « The host family is somewhere in an epicenter of the protection and promotion mechanism for children and young people in danger[...] ». Therefore, our obligation as a State is to care for foster families, to enable them, to give them conditions, to guarantee economic, psychological support, to support children to have access to education, to access to health, to care for those who care. Because if they are the epicenter of the protection of young people and children at risk, it means that they are also the epicenter of the implementation of this State obligation before these children, and should be supported and cared for with the same responsibility and the same weight as the State decides to withdraw a child from a family. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u168	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Temido has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue that brings us today is the concern of children and young people who, in any case, are exposed to a risk context. Among the proposals put forward, I would like to highlight the one who intends to change the requirements and impediments to the application of the host family and to equate the financial support fixed for the support measure with another family member and the confidence measure the person suitable to those of the host family. As we have already heard, this proposal aims at reducing the use of residential care for children and young people in a situation of danger, as opposed to increasing family reception responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u170	A family is a father and a mother. Right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u171	In particular, the project considers that it is the law itself that causes obstacles to a greater use of family care, for three reasons: because it stipulates that families who are candidates for family care cannot have kinship with the child; because it stipulates that families who are candidates for family care cannot be candidates for adoption; and because the law does not provide the same financial support for support measures with another family or with confidence to the right person who establishes for host families. Without prejudice to the recognition of the concern, which unites us all, it is understood that the proposed amendments do not help the desired result. Otherwise, let us see: as regards the alleged obstacle of families applying for family care to have any link with the child, which is contained in the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme, it is worth stressing that what is at issue is a different type of promotion and protection measures. If there is a child who needs to be placed under a measure of promotion and protection and its framework with the parents or other family members is feasible, the child shall be placed in this regime. We will be, in the legal classification, before a measure to be carried out in the natural environment of life. What we will not be facing is a family-friendly placement measure, which involves a specific procedure, with the application process, selection, initial and continuing training, conclusion of contracts and linkage with the institution of the framework and with the family of origin. It is therefore not an obstacle, but a different path, a different framework. As regards the impediment of the applicant family to be a candidate for adoption, it is also important to bear in mind that what is at issue are regimes with different principles and objectives. The adoption is a definitive measure in which the process of selection and training of candidates considers this specific aspect. Family care is a transitional measure, especially when the child is expected to return to his or her family environment or another that is best suited to his or her promotion and protection; a measure in which the candidates will have to have competence in exercising a multiparentity in conjunction with the monitoring team and the family of origin of the children and young guests. What we don't think is possible — honestly, it doesn't seem possible! — is the co-existence of these two schemes at the same time, because the requirement and availability, especially emotional, that they call are distinct. However, it seems to us that nothing prevents an abstract host family from adopting the child or the young person who received it. And there are even judicial decisions in this regard. Finally, as regards the equalization of economic support in support measures with another family member and the right person in relation to family reception, I would like to point out, and it has already been mentioned, that the current legal framework already provides for such support in any of the situations. As a rule, the host family is allocated a monthly cash allowance equivalent to 1, 2 times the value of the indexer of social support and to parents, foster relatives or suitable person is 50 % of that support. Once again, what is at stake here are situations of a different nature. in a case, a family that registers to host a child at risk and that is subject to a selection process, described above, having the inherent charges covered by the State ; in the other, a family of the child, who may even be his father or his mother, who needs financial support, who must have financial support and who has him to guarantee his or her responsibility to support the child or his or her young relative. For all this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we genuinely follow the concern of the proposers with the alternative responses to the institutionalization of children and young people who need to be subject to measures of promotion and protection, but we do not think that it will find an answer on this path, and with this we would do nothing to solve the problem of these children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u172	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you for listening to the Block on the Left to speak of what you consider to be the central core of society, the family — the traditional family, as we know it. For each institutionalized child, some failure happened in the system. Possibly, it was not detected or, then, it was not corrected. When we talk about the right of the child, what happens to me is to think about the right to happiness and think about how we got here. This House has a lot of responsibility in how we have come here whenever there is an institutionalized child.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u174	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u175	These are years of policies of destruction of what is the family institution, years and years to condemn, to penalize the family; policies that do not support birth; policies that force women to choose between being mothers and having a career; policies that determine that we have hidden children, institutionalized at home, when we know that they do not have freedom, much as a result of the fact that, today, contrary to what has happened to us all, they cannot play in the street for the feeling of insecurity;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u176	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u177	... policies for which we continue to keep our eyes closed and to allow some children in our society to be withdrawn from school at the age of 12 because we do not want to be racist, xenophobic or whatever. It's called hypocrisy! It's called hypocrisy! [[Congrats from the CH.]] About those kids, not a word. Children who are basically the result of a policy that has failed, and if politics has failed, it is because politicians and political parties have failed. For each institutionalized child, responsibility is also for this Parliament, a Parliament that lives here, in its ego, and that little goes to the street to try to understand what happens. It is so much committee, so much so that we bring the discussion to this plenary, but we are unable to have a structured discussion on this subject. We have seen, as a blanket of clippings, talking about these matters, hiding children who live the problem of domestic violence, who witness violations, who are raped, targets of pedophilia, and VV. They refuse to penalize and increase penalties, as we have proposed. It's called hypocrisy! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u178	And the children are raped where? Many are -in the traditional family!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u179	Children have the right to play, they have the right to happiness. They also have the right to shave their knees, either to play the ball or to jump to the monkey. They must be happy, as we were, as we had the right to be, but we tried to castrate that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u180	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u181	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, we explain their rights to children, but we never explain their duties to them. We do not blame them, we never give them self-responsibility. We're creating children incubators who don't understand society. And we, as politicians, have failed. We failed for every child that is institutionalized. Shame on this Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u182	The Bureau does not record any entries, and we are thus moving to the conclusion of this debate. [[Pause.]] I'm told Mrs. Joana Sá Pereira wants to speak. Is that true? That's not true. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u183	A topic so important and PSD leaves so much time to use!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u184	Why don't you worry about your time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u185	If you have nothing to say, give us the time, because we have more to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u186	Well, we already have Mrs Rosa Venâncio's inscription for an intervention, so I immediately give her the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of this debate, scheduled by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, on the reception of children and young people, given its importance, has been a permanent concern of the Socialist Party. I also welcome the parliamentary groups of the Liberal Initiative and the Portuguese Communist Party and the only representatives of the Free and the NAP for the initiatives under discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u188	They're not here anymore! They're gone, an hour ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u189	Given the legislative initiatives presented by the Free, whose proposals establish, on the one hand, the creation of a multidisciplinary and inter-ministerial team to develop an integrated work, within the meaning of a policy of reducing institutionalized children and young people by 2030, and, on the other hand, the implementation of concrete measures in the support programme for children and young foreigners with specific educational needs, it is important to highlight the work that has been developed in an articulated manner among the various public entities with special responsibilities in this regard. It is also important to highlight the CASA Plan, which was set up under the Social Emergency Programme to provide specific answers to the problems inherent in children and young people who are in a position of reception in the institutions of the public and solidarity network, in particular by strengthening their school training processes as a prerequisite for a genuine project of empowerment and reintegration or family integration. According to the public presentation of the basis for the qualification of the reception system for children and young people, held on 1 June, the Government undertakes to extend and develop the re-qualification of the response network and the training of the system, with the aim of reducing the number of children and young people in residential care by 2030. of the data contained in the CASA 2021 Report, published in October 2022, it is observed that reception in Portugal has been evolving positively. In 2021, the number of children and young people in care decreased by about 5 % compared to the previous year and the number of children and young people in foster families and in apartments increased. However, huge challenges remain, including the qualification of existing responses and the intervention of unaccompanied children and young foreigners. The rate of these children and young people in care already accounts for about 13% of the host population. With regard to the proposals for recommendations contained in draft resolution No 787 / XV / 1. in order to strengthen the financial and human resources of the educational support programmes and measures to support learning and universal inclusion, under Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July 2018 for children and young foreigners in foster care, it is important to note that they are provided for under the National Strategy for the Rights of the Child and the National Action Plan of the Guarantee for Children, specific measures to ensure access to health, education and social protection for all children, in particular in strengthening the capacity and training of multidisciplinary teams to support inclusive education and local intervention teams within the National System of Early Intervention in Children. However, despite the effort to promote educational success, it continues to be within compulsory education that about half of the children and young people in care are not at the level of education that can be expected for their age group. in this context, the Socialist Party believes that some of the recommendations on this matter may deserve more reflection and weighting. We are aware of the work developed so far, but given the complexity and different dimensions of the reception system, we are aware of the challenges ahead. Thus, a system of welcoming innovative children and young people is needed to meet new requirements for the promotion and protection of children and young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u190	Mrs. Rosa Venâncio, it is a pleasure to realize that you encouraged the bench of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, with all due credit, in fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u191	But it wasn't for the content! It's because he's leaving!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u192	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To think that the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations in 1989 and ratified by Portugal in 1990 is only 33 years old, leads us to the recognition that the child, while self-employed, is dependent on care, is a very recent achievement, which necessarily means that there is still a way to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u195	For this reason, when we debate the rights of children, this conquest is not at stake, or even an amendment to the paradigm, but always fight for a set of effective changes in order to improve the lives of our children. in this measure, it is always important to discuss these issues and here I also welcome the initiative of the Left Block to bring this matter to debate. But the path that the PSD had recently advocated was another one of the creation of a possible subcommittee for juvenile justice and a system for the promotion and protection of children and young people, precisely so that these matters would be dealt with here in Parliament in an integrated and structural way, which was proposed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u196	Well, there it is! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u197	On the prevention of ill-treatment, it is important to say that, in good rigour, this is already the responsibility of the State, but there is a presupposition, in terms of prevention, that it is important to emphasize: the recognition that each child and young person has unique characteristics and that the promotion of his or her rights and protection should also be guided by criteria of deep respect for his or her individuality, without forgetting the affective, family and social ties. Secondly, it is important to point out the importance of human resources and technical resources. The State must ensure effective means of ensuring that professionals dealing with children, whether in the area of justice or out of it, are properly empowered, which will certainly mark the difference in the prevention, management and resolution of problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u199	It is in this scenario of realization of children's rights, framed by the system of promotion and protection, that emerges the work of the committees for the protection of children and young people, based in the various municipalities of our country. CPCJs are an important pillar for the realization of the rights of the child, not only through its protective activity, but also in its extended mode, in the prevention of any kind of violence against the child through the mobilization and involvement of all social actors of civil society, in an integrated governance logic. They work daily to pay attention and care to children, young people and families, assessing the situations in which they are and deliberate, in a restricted meeting, on the need, or not, of the application of measures to keep the child away from the danger situation in which he is found. In November 2022, the Government set up a working group to promote the overall design and application of a uniform model for the assessment of the danger and improvement of the system for the promotion and protection of children and young people in danger, which, in fact, needs to implement and improve, and will certainly be an element that we will consider. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to institutionalization, I would like to point out that there are no perfect decisions and that the use of this measure so difficult to protect a child must always be seen as an extreme decision, due to the lack of alternatives that we will tend to have to give up. As regards reception measures, there is also a need for close, educational and social follow-up that truly enables people who receive children in danger, and that it is important to ensure that initiatives of this kind are discussed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is more difficult to achieve? A society that can accept or adopt, why does it have all the legal and social instruments for this purpose, or a society that effectively wants and can embrace and adopt children? It is true that the availability of all of us, or of some,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u200	Good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u201	... if the processes of reception and adoption are difficult, but it is highly frustrating to think of a society that, being able to welcome and adopt children, does not welcome them and does not adopt them on cultural and mental issues as well. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u202	Therefore, today and always, the PSD will be available to work on all matters involving children's rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u203	Before giving the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, for closure, I would just like to leave a word to Mrs Rosa Venâncio of the PS Parliamentary Group, because only after his intervention was I was informed of the circumstance that will happen tomorrow. We hope that you will have a job and a happy life, as you have certainly had up here. It was a pleasure to have her with us. [[PSP, standing members, PSD, PCP, BE and CH and IL applause.]] Now, yes, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, I believe that it is possible to reach the consensus that it has not been done against anyone, it has been done on the basis of greater safeguard of rights and the fulfilment of the obligations that the Portuguese State has towards the rights of children. A second aspect that we wanted to make very clear here, now in an absolutely formal way, is the gratitude to Help, the association of host families, for the support that they have given us in preparing these initiatives, and also to thank activists who, on the ground, help children and young people to have better answers in the most difficult moments of their lives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, I would like to say that the opening up of these initiatives to the Commission without a vote is an opening without dogma. We do not intend to have in our proposals the last Coca-Cola in the desert. We are available so that they can be challenged and improved, so that you can reach the best solutions. But I am asking for exactly the same openness to the Members and to the Members. Members of the Socialist Party, because they are not included in the proposals that we make some of the criticisms that have been made to them, which shows some prejudice about them and does not reflect what is really there. We do not mix the concept of adoption with the concept of reception. They are separated and we do not mix them, what we say is that there is a legal limitation that must end. That's it, only and only, that's in our bill. More: at present, we do not confuse — and I believe that this is a confusion that should not exist either — support for poverty, which is a matter and there have been several responses that have given in this regard, with support for child protection whose primary responsibility was not those people, particularly the family, because otherwise we are discussing things that are not the same. It could bring here cases, which we all know, of people who stayed with family children in charge and who did not have a single support from the State. Why? Because they did not have a situation of support for poverty and therefore did not interfere with the support they mentioned here, but they did not cease to need, because they took on burdens, sometimes more than one child, who were not acceptable charges for those people, but being more distant family members took on their family responsibilities. These people should have a state response, and that is what we say in our bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u205	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u206	I will finish, Mr. President. So with all the opening, we will hear who we have to hear, but let's do it without dogmas, without prejudice and without subservience to agendas other than that of the child's best interest. I think that's what we're all bound to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-29.u207	Thus, we are completing today's work. I am going to do the reading of tomorrow's work, which, exceptionally, will start at 10 a.m. and 30 minutes, because at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes there will be a seminar on parliamentaryism in the Senate Chamber, promoted by the Interparliamentary Union. All Members and all Members. Members were invited to attend this seminar, which will start at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes and continue during the morning, at least until 10 a.m. and 30 minutes. Anyway, at 10 a.m. and 30 minutes we will start our work, with three points on the agenda. The first point is the election of three members to the Administrative Documents Access Commission, four members to the National Assisted Drug Processing Council and four members to the Regulatory Council of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication. The second point is the Interpellation to Government No 7 / XV / 1. a (IL) — SOS SNS, a year later. Finally, on the third point we shall have a vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to add that the election for external organs will take place between 10 and 30 minutes and 12 hours and 30 minutes, to allow the vote to take place later. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're done here. See you tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
