ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum, and all parliamentary groups are represented, and I therefore declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Let us begin our work with reading the dossier, for which I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I am now announcing the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President. I refer, first, to the Draft Deliberation No. 10 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). Law No. 507 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 509 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 510 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 512 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 513 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 514 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 515 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 407 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 409 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 410 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 411 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 412 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 413 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 414 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 415 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 416 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 417 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 419 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 420 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 421 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 422 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Resolution No 6 / XV / 1 was also included in the Bureau. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u3	Thank you very much. The first item on the agenda is the joint assessment of Parliamentary Investigations Nos 6 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the management of the TAP and the use of public funds allocated to it, including the payment of bonuses and compensation to holders of management and management positions of the company and 7 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Possible parliamentary investigation committee for the political protection of the management of TAP. Mr André Ventura has the floor to present the proposal of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have had in recent months at TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport) is easy to explain. There were radical and blind cuts on the company; the cut of wages in EUR 1, EUR 4 billion; 3000 jobs finished; the reduction of cabin crew members and 15 % of their time of service — all this in a company that at the same time became one of the main bakers of taxpayers'and state money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u6	Mr. President, up to 2022, 3, 2 billion euros of taxpayers'money were placed in the TAP boxes. This is equivalent to 25 % of the budget of the National Health Service ( SNS ) — I repeat, 25 % of the budget of the National Health Service. TAP received more money than Lufthansa, which is German. So today it is legitimate for Portuguese taxpayers to ask themselves: will we receive this money back, as the German State received from Lufthansa? Are we going to get the money back, how other states have received from their airlines? Of course not. Have you improved TAP service? Have they improved the working conditions? Have the companies associated with TAP improved? In November 2022, the TAP was 9. the worst company in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u7	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u8	This is what the Socialist Government gives us: full of money from public companies, ask for better management, they look to the side and the taxpayers are always paying the same value. It's the socialist shame at your best! [[Congrats from the CH.]] However, there were some things that TAP improved: wanted BMW luxury, wanted to pay Uber cheques to its directors and paid millions of compensation to former Socialist Party rulers. As if this were not enough, there was a plot of lies, in which rulers had to resign for a simple reason: because they lied to the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u10	The TAP is the new New Bank and has one responsible: it is called "António Costa", it is called the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The inconceivable prizes paid to those who did not deserve them, at the time when the Portuguese feel the weight of the crisis, deserve serious and profound investigation. The research we propose here is not to save anything or anyone, it is to find out, everything and everyone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u12	...where it is and how the taxpayers' money was spent. As you always have arrived, pray to whoever it hurts, we're here to investigate. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u13	To present the proposal of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana... indeed, Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. It would certainly not be ill presented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A TAP administrator leaves office with a prize of half a million euros, four months later he is president of the NAV (Air Navigation of Portugal ) and, six months later, he is Secretary of State of the Treasury — an administration pays the weight of gold; lawyers' offices to collect bluffs; two State Secretaries; two ministers with the protection of these entities; and no one was able to ask for the soul of whom and to what title Alexandra Reis took home half a million euros, no one was able to ask whether this award was legal in the light of the Statute of the Public Manager, no one even remembered that prize ever existed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is a forgetfulness, another is the state of denial to which the absolute majority of Antonio Costa arrived. Two days ago, in an interview, the Prime Minister denied that the wages and compensation of TAP were a government matter. Minister Fernando Medina knew the reasons for Alexandra Reis' departure, but he refuses to know about compensation, such as former Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, at least until he found a WhatsApp that was lost on his mobile. Alexandra Reis refuses to have failed to comply with any rule and, now, the CEO (executive chief officer) of the TAP denies workers' rights while hiding a millionaire prize. I say it hides because this contract, like Alexandra Reis's contract, is secret, and even when questioned here, in the Assembly of the Republic, the TAP CEO was able to state the value of the contract or the conditions under which it will receive it. All we know — because it went out in the press — is that the President of the TAP Management Board will receive EUR 2 million for fulfilling the functions for which he has already received a salary of €500 000 per year. The Committee of Inquiry proposed by the Left Block has simple objectives. We want to break with the addiction of denial and forgetfulness, bring transparency to TAP management, establish responsibilities and reverse decisions that offend workers and damage the public interest. We want answers to all the questions that ministers have not been able to ask, and to a few more. We want to know the contracts, wages, awards of TAP administrators. We want to know why Alexandra Reis didn't return the compensation when she went to the NAV. We want to see if the paid and promised prizes are legal and compatible with the public interest and that other decisions are being taken in the TAP in the same way. We want to hold those who decided, who knew and who did not know, but had to know about these awards, compensations and decisions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament have different views on the TAP. The Left Block argues that the TAP should be public, because it is a strategic asset and an instrument of sovereignty. The PSD wanted to privatize TAP at all costs, and it was only not to stop Efromovich because the candidate did not even have bank guarantees. The company was then handed over to David Neeleman, who had no money to pay a personal loan of 30 million, the more to save TAP from the pandemic crisis. So far, the PSD can't tell if it would let TAP fall into the hands of private shareholders. The PS started by saying that it nationalized the TAP to save the company's strategic position and now defends its privatization after having injected 3, 2 billion euros of public money into the TAP. Mr. Minister of Economy even went to the Spanish press saying that he would like to pass the hub of Lisbon to Madrid, because that's all that would mean the sale of TAP to the Spanish company Iberia. All these political positions deserve debate, but that is not the purpose of the Committee of Inquiry which we are presenting today. We propose that Parliament focus on the discharge of responsibilities on what is happening today in the TAP, on wages and millionaire prizes and on the system of administrative privileges, the reasons for hasty privatisation and at any cost and other decisions that affect the public interest. We assume this option because we think it makes the most sense and the most results can produce within the time limit that we have available. There are votes for this in this House, we just need to start working. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u15	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u16	For what?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No one doubt that today, having a position in the TAP is a real Euromillion. We are talking about wages between €200 000 and €500 000, to which there are still representation expenses and a source of premiums and bonuses which can amount to €2 million per year. This is truly obscene and it is to enjoy the Portuguese who work every day, to which so many sacrifices are required in times of pandemic, in times of inflation, with the rising prices we have been watching, including interest rates. They raise compensation to thousands of euros for the company's staff exits, even when required by themselves. We could be amazed—but no, because we have already spoken and left the alert on all these issues here in the Assembly of the Republic. And what did the parties that could somehow decide on this matter do? The Government tolerates and the PS, as well as the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, rejected the NAP proposal to apply the Statute of the Public Manager to the TAP. Alexandra Reis is just the tip of the iceberg of these types of cases and homes. That is why these committee proposals rely on the support of the NAP, for whom it is essential to unravel the methods of public money ice cream, which is the TAP. Furthermore, we hope not only that the harmful management of the public interest resulting from this kind of salary and prizes will be exposed but also that this committee may result in a change that will somehow put an end to all this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u18	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The figure of the parliamentary committee of inquiry consists of one of the most powerful tools available to this House. More than questions, speeches or apologies, the committee of inquiry gives this Parliament special powers of summoning, hearing and access to evidence and reserved or hidden proceedings. But why does the PSD support and participate actively in the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the Management and Use of Public Funds of TAP? The answer is simple: we are obliged to use a committee of inquiry because they lie to us, deceive us and hide the truth from us. [[PSD applause.]] In TAP management, everything is obscure, opaque, made of small lies and half-truths, and we do not see, until today, the will of no one to tell the truth, only the truth and all the truth to which the Portuguese are entitled. There are no innocents, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. in this tragedy there are no innocent, nor in the management of the TAP, which I remember is public, nor in the political protection of two ministries and two ministers : Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure, and Fernando Medina, Minister for Finance. We have had everything, since the irresponsibility of nationalising a company that was private; the madness of bringing nationalization up to 100 %; the round lie of invoking that the TAP favours territorial cohesion, emigrant communities and the link to PALOP (African Countries of Portuguese Official Language ); the gap of shooting up the hole 3200 million, the maximum that the European Union has allowed; mass dismissals, wage cuts and constant labour conflicts; the bonus as a premium for injury, the fleet of foolish BMWs, the woman of trainee staff and the new headquarters for 4 million per year. More recently, the waiters are angry and the Portuguese are there to pay. €500 000 is paid and TAP chairs are changed to NAV Portugal. Blame dies single and, cautiously, prepares 2 million for Mrs. Christine Widener. What about the Ministers? Worse, worse. Instead of giving answers, they ask questions and ask TAP what's going on. One of them just screams "I didn't see and I don't know! », and you think it is natural to do so. I do not know, but I go out and, since I go out, I use to say that I know, because I looked at WhatsApp. The Prime Minister already knew nothing while Peter Nuno did not know and was aware when he remembered that he did. All of this took place lightly, with a feeling of impunity and a lack of sense of responsibility, which shocks the PSD and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, the PS did and we are neither satisfied nor informed. We went to this committee with the strong conviction that several of the protagonists of this tragedy have ceased to have political and moral conditions for the demands of their duties. But we will wait for the answers that delay and the Portuguese continue to be entitled, because they are the ones who pay for socialist adventures now and always. Finally, I'm sorry. In the face of such a serious and poorly explained process as it has been the file of TAP and its management and political protection, we will have to vote in favour of all parties, because all parties will want the truth. Will the most buried party in the process — which supports the government and all these evictions and which beats the government up — decide to abstain? The Socialist Party wants to know what happened or doesn't want to know? Does the Socialist Party unconditionally support what has been done by its Ministers or not? Is the Socialist Party comfortable with this truth covered with lies, which tips responsible and professionals in the TAP process? After all, what's the PS afraid of? What prevents the PS from supporting this committee? Is your abstention bad conscience or fear? After the constant blockade of the demands to bring to Parliament rulers and former governors, nor does the TAP confront them or disturb them? The vote will say everything about the availability of the PS and the Government to ascertain the truth and to confront all the protagonists with their actions. The PSD will do what it has to do with a sense of responsibility and without any distractions about the purpose of this committee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u20	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification, which he will answer together. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u21	For what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Rios, my question is direct, it is not new and it is not original, but I sincerely hope that this time there will be an answer from the PSD Parliamentary Group. It was implicitly in his speech that he criticized the intervention of the Portuguese Government in the TAP at the time of the pandemic — and he stressed: at the time of the pandemic — when the planes were all on the ground all over the world. The question, Mr President, is the same: what did the PSD do about the TAP when the pandemic arose? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u23	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u24	Mr President, after this highly unpredictable question from the Socialist Party to the PSD... [[CH and PSD laughter.]] In fact, the PS has frightened the country with its historical memory: in any debate here we will stop the troika, the Cavaco or the Rabbit Steps. [[CH's laughs.]] It has always been this way and so it will continue in the days of the Socialist Party. Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, I would like to ask you if you agree with the Arrival when we say that this administration of the TAP has come to an end. We have a TAP administration today in office and, regardless of everything, we know one thing: we know that you lied to the country and lied to the regulator, the CMVM (the Securities Market Committee), saying that the administrator Alexandra Reis went out on her own will and to embrace other professional challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u25	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u26	Today we know that's a lie. Have or not Pedro Nuno Santos discovered in his WhatsApp, we know it's a lie because no company in the world pays half a million compensation to someone who wants to leave on his own. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u27	So we wonder if the PSD agrees with this immediate and irrevocable request... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... that the administration of the TAP has abandoned its functions. The second question has to do with Pedro Nuno Santos and I ask whether or not the PSD agrees with what is evidence today. Today we know that Mr Nuno Santos does not return to this House in 30 days. After all, it does not come from 60 days, 70 days, 90 days, 100 days. It's just coming in the summer! I understand it's only coming in the summer. Nor would I come because, in fact, when Parliament is all asking for responsibilities, I realize that the best thing is to run away to the Bahamas or go on vacation! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, with this shame that Pedro Nuno Santos was here so long, that he was such a brave man, a man of confrontation, and now he has no courage to come here to Parliament to answer about the TAP, I ask him whether the PSD does not understand that Pedro Nuno Santos must be held accountable at all levels — I stress: at all levels! — because of this huge mess in which TAP Portugal has been transformed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u28	To reply, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u29	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I must remind you that your question is a recurring one. The more they get stuck, the more they scream « and the PSD? But this time, in fact, in a committee of inquiry, we are going to look into what they were doing. I have to remember this: the pandemic was not a national phenomenon, it happened all over the world. But maybe the country that gave him the worst answer in this area was ours. You know, as I know, that there has been a number of support to various airlines, but from a disastrous thing like ours there is no memory. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The honourable Member asks what is the answer we would give. We would give a supportive answer, perhaps to a private company. We would not nationalize TAP. So this hole that they've gotten into is the hole where they're going to have to get out, and we'll wait for the committee of inquiry. What scares me is because the PS does not say: "Yes, we want to take care of responsibilities. What troubles you? What is it that afflicts you? Is that abstention? Shall we let it go? They should be the first ones interested. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. André Ventura, the truth is we do not know everything and that is why we are going to have an inquiry committee. But the truth is that I must also acknowledge that what we know is enough to say that there are no political conditions for the maintenance of the Board of Directors. We will not rush the conclusions — for us, quite predictable — of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u30	More or less! It's all more or less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u31	Therefore, more important than that, and that is what I call attention, Mr, is the following: we must not interfere and suffice with the management of a public enterprise. We have to go deeper and we have to go higher. There is political protection, and that is what I am interested in. How did you get here? How could those administrators not say anything? How was it possible that none of them were dismissed until today? How was it possible to allow these evictions? from those who have guardianship functions, as you know, one has fled out and the other has fled inside, but the truth is there are a lot of answers to give. The more they explain, the more answers you have to give. So we are focused on TAP, but we have to understand everything: management and protection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u32	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares of the Free now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u33	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Dear colleagues : Since the first hour that the Free has supported this request for the Left Block inquiry committee, which was the first one to present this idea. It would send the parliamentary order that anyone who publicly submitted a request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry could submit this presentation and that is what we were here, first and only, to discuss. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] But, finally, expertise is expertise and therefore other parties have tried, on the other hand, to submit other requests for committee of inquiry. [[Ours was the first!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u34	We have supported the request since the first hour because we need to identify all the management problems today and before. In other words, we need to identify the problems of the first attempts to privatize, a privatization made at the last hour, when it was already known that there would be no majority in parliament to support it. It is said that the whole aspect of public intervention in TAP before and during the pandemic was more than in Lufthansa, but less than in KLM, which is an example of a country more comparable to us. [[CH and IL Member Protests Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] What is done with TAP, because what we are interested in above all is after and the future, it is to preserve value. Portugal has allowed much value to be destroyed in recent years. Portugal's electricity is Chinese; and Portugal Telecom has already been. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] The Free does not want, because it is to lose the future, that with TAP it destroys value. We defend a TAP that is at the forefront of innovation, that can return value to Portuguese, that can, yes, be profitable and that can serve the country. We also believe that a committee of inquiry will serve this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u35	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Under the circumstances of this debate, it is worth making some comments on the various controversies that have arisen in this Chamber on the TAP. I would like to try to answer some of the issues that have been discussed in Parliament. The first has to do with a theme that often the right brings here — the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative, the PSD, among others — saying that the PS does not want to be monitored in the TAP. I would like to remind you that at this time an audit of the IGF (General Inspection of Finance ) is taking place at the request of the Government on the subject, in fact, which we are commenting on today. Also at the request of the largest shareholder — therefore of the Government — an audit was conducted on the acquisition of aircraft by the TAP administration, an audit of which results were sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the face of such a desire to monitor, to know and to know, I note that no right party has requested more information about the results of this audit, and that probably means a lot. [[CH protests.]] A third point is that the Court of Auditors audited the TAP. The results are also clear and, in fact, used by some of the parties. A fourth point is that it was the Court of Auditors itself that said it would do another audit of the TAP under the circumstances of some events that came to the public. A fifth moment is that the Public Prosecutor's Office has also opened an investigation process to TAP following the question of Alexandra Reis's 500 000 €. Finally, we have a parliamentary committee of inquiry which will be approved by the Socialist Party, Mr Paulo Rios. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] The Committee of Inquiry will be approved by the Socialist Party to find out all issues related to TAP's remuneration policy. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, saying that the PS does not want to monitor the company in six moments of supervision of the company seems to me to be too much on the side of the opposition. The second issue that I think is important to resolve is a matter that has also come to the public. Mr. Paulo Rios has now tried a version never heard directly from the PSD about what he wanted to do with the TAP. The question was basically to know if there had been no reversal of privatization, according to the right, and in particular the PSD, if there was no need for the State to put money into the company by 2020. But the PSD thinks that if there had not been the reversal and everything had been the same, there would be no problems. There was the pandemic and the privates were going to assume EUR 3, EUR 2 billion. That's pure fantasy, Mr. Deputies. It is obvious that this would never happen and I think that everyone in this room agrees with me, in which it was impossible for that to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third question, Mr President, is that the private ones — which was indeed the proposal that the honourable Member had just said that the PSD — were willing, themselves, to ensure the salvation of the company with the coward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u37	But then they said no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u38	That is, you think that, in view of the circumstances in which we lived at that time, those private ones we had, and that you chose on the knee and the horse-kills in the darkness of the night,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u39	Watch out for the word "cavals"! There's the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u40	... could guarantee the company's salvation. [[IL protests.]] I will remember the timeline, which I think is very important, because you have the mania to forget what is important: it is that private people in the first quarter of 2020, when the pandemic arose, asked the State to grant EUR 350 million to save the TAP company. What happens is that by June 2020 the company's needs were already EUR 1, EUR 2 billion, 8 times higher. At that time — and you know that too, because we all know — they said that in order to save that company there was a need for a restructuring plan, which he said would save the TAP. They went to the European Union and said: "We do not admit, nor do we want a restructuring plan in this way. Do not keep on seeking. ” So that's the PSD solution that never solved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then there are other parties who say something that also seems extraordinary to me, namely the Liberal Initiative: that this restructuring plan was not preceded by any study. For the Liberal Initiative, an in-depth study of the needs of TAP was needed in order to move forward with restructuring. [[IL protests.]] Mrs. Members of the Liberal Initiative, who read international newspapers, who do merceries accounts, who present to this House a lot of bibliography, did not realize that the same happened in Europe as a whole, that no company did any previous study and that there were restructuring plans that are underway, some with good results, others with bad results, but the good results are happening in the TAP? Mrs. Members, this idea that a study was needed for a restructuring plan, when by 2020 the planes were all on the ground—and it was more than obvious the damage of EUR 3.2 billion, which was already planned—is pure fantasy. It was not possible to wait for a study! Finally, the right has been saying, and it is also necessary to respond to this statement, that the State's responsibilities have increased with the reversal of privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u41	What right? The only right is us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u42	In other words, the PSD in particular, but also the Liberal Initiative, which, moreover, often cites the Court of Auditors'reports, say that the responsibilities with the reversal have increased for the State. If you read the Court of Auditors report correctly, you will find that did not happen. Responsibilities to the State were secured by a letter from the Republic sent to the bank saying that the responsibilities of the past, the present and the future remained in the hands of the State. And, with the reversal, this letter was sent again, but something else happened, which is also described in the Court of Auditors' report: TAP's robustness was reinforced with the reversal made. So once again, the question is answered and I find it very relevant to underline it. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying the following: what we are discussing is the conduct of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to assess what has happened and why there has been a lack of knowledge in some sectors of government regarding the compensation of Alexandra Reis, and this debate seems relevant to me. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has already announced that it will approve this parliamentary committee of inquiry...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u43	Thank you! Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u44	... and we hope that it will be sufficient to ensure what is very important, that is, that the restructuring plan is running well, as it is running, and that, in this way, the EUR 3, EUR 2 billion can be returned to society, as we all hope. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u45	They're never gonna get the money back in life!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u46	Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u47	Mr President, by mistake, if I may, we wanted to make a request for clarification to Mr Carlos Pereira, but we do not register. It will remain in your decision whether or not we can do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u48	I do not know whether the PS Parliamentary Group, to whom the speaker belongs, accepts this posthumous inscription. [[Pause.]] It seems that body language indicates that it accepts. No, don't. [[CH's laughs.]] The PS Parliamentary Group accepts. Mr. André Ventura, please make the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u49	I thank Mr President and the Socialist Party's parliamentary group for their tolerance. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is very simple. If the Socialist Party wants a committee of inquiry to ascertain what has happened, as these TAP compensations have been paid and why, and I quote, "some sectors of government have not been informed", I ask you, Mr President, will be voted in favour of the committee of inquiry proposed by the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u50	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u51	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, we will not vote in favour of the committee of inquiry proposed by the Arrival and will vote in favour of the committee of inquiry proposed by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Why? Why? Orders from the bench?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u52	It's socialist logic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u53	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anyone who hears this discussion about TAP in recent months has good reasons to be very confused, and confused with almost everyone. Confused with the PSD, which was not yet today that admitted exactly what its position would be in relation to the TAP. He accepts that the Liberal Initiative is right, because we should not have injected the EUR 3, EUR 2 billion, but he is unable to assume the consequences of not injecting this money, contrary to what we have always done. Confused with the Arrival, which has already been praised several times by Minister Pedro Nuno Santos for his responsible position with regard to TAP, for defending the injection of money into the TAP. In front of the unions, he claims that he is injecting as much money as possible, but when he talks to the taxpayers he says he doesn't want to, he thinks that no money should be injected. Confused with this defence of the economic nationalism of the only Member of the Free, who has now been mistaken: the loan that was made to KLM, once again in relative terms, was three times less than that made in Portugal, considering the public expenditure of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u55	He knows there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u56	The German state injected eight times more money into Lufthansa, the Dutch state injected three times less than us. Confused with the PS, because one of the main reasons why we are discussing this parliamentary committee of inquiry has to do with the awards and salaries of TAP managers. These premiums and wages have been justified — and for us, well — with the fact that TAP is on the competitive market. Therefore, while on the competitive market, it is understood that you have to give wages and millionaire prizes. But this is curious, because this is the same PS that justifies the injection of money into the TAP ensuring that, without TAP, if we did not inject money, we would stop having tourists, the Portuguese would no longer be able to fly abroad, because no one would replace it. Say which of the two is: either the TAP is in the competitive market and, therefore, it has to pay these premiums and these wages, or it is not. When it is to inject money, TAP is a unique and irreplaceable company, but when it is to pay administrators, it is a private company in a competitive environment. None of this makes sense! The truth is that the management of TAP has been a burden of misusing public funds, as we always predicted would happen. They tell us, then, more to the left, that when it was private, there were management problems as well. We don't even answer that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u57	On the left and not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u58	contrary to the shocks that move against IL, we do not think that private management is always, by definition, good. Too often it's bad, sometimes it's bad. The difference is that when a truly private management is bad, it is the shareholders who pay that cost or, at least, should be, because the Portuguese State, today, almost does not allow companies to pay the cost of its mismanagement. When private management is bad, in a competitive environment, it is the good companies that survive and that is the main incentive for good management. On the contrary, when public administration is bad, what happens? Nothing! The taxpayers, whether they want or not, continue to pay for this mismanagement indefinitely. When management does not have incentives to manage well, we almost always have bad management. That is why there are so many cases of mismanagement in public enterprises. That is why these cases multiply from CP ( Portugal trains) to TAP, passing through the Lisbon Metropolitan. That is why we have so many public companies to make losses in consecutive years, these companies that are only deposits of charges for power parties. That is why the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo, after privatised, began producing ships and, before that, they only produced tachos. That is what we need to change: it is the form of incentives that we give our companies. If we do not change this incentive scheme, we can do the committees of inquiry that we understand well, because public companies will continue to be mismanaged. We will approve the committee of inquiry, but without much expectation, because, at the last hearing we had at the TAP CEO, we had a CEO who, before the representatives of his shareholders, kept the truth hidden repeatedly. He never said if Alexandra Reis had been fired or if he had resigned. At the question of a Member, he did not say what the size of his bonus would be. This is intolerable, given that it is a president of a public enterprise. It's absolutely intolerable! If it were a CEO of a private company other than those responses, who would hide the truth from the representatives of their shareholders, who we, the Members, would be resigning in time, and that is what we hope it will be done. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u59	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u60	Mr Rui Tavares would like to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u61	Yes, on the conduct of the work, Mr President, because, in spite of everything, reliability is important for the conduct of our work. I said capital injection in KLM was greater than in TAP...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u62	What's this? Oh, my God! This is not an interrogation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u63	... and I will be willing to send the documents to the Bureau that prove that it was EUR 3, EUR 4 billion instead of EUR 3, EUR 2 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u64	This is an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u65	Obviously, at no time did he say it was related to GDP (gross domestic product ). If so, TAP's national GDP profits would also be much higher than KLM's GDP profits in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u66	The honourable Member will be pleased to send the documents which he believes are useful to be distributed to the Bureau. Mr. Carlos Pereira has signed up to make a request for clarification to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, who no longer has time to answer. [[Pause.]] The honourable Member shall inform the Bureau that he has not signed up. So we move on to the next intervention, which is up to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] You didn't sign up, did you? There's a problem with the phones: they work, but the content is... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u67	Mr. President, if I may, I would like to write to Mr. Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u68	Oh, very good. I was seeing that Mr Bruno Dias was giving up his rights in this matter, but not. I know you appreciate my mood, sir. You have the word, Ex.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u69	I am sorry to disappoint you, Mr President, but here I am to intervene. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The setting up of a committee of inquiry to acts of management of the TAP, in particular those leading to the award of a compensation of €500 000 to former administrator Alexandra Reis, may not go beyond practices that are inherent to private management criteria, present in the economic groups, in depth within the framework of the privatisation carried out in favour of the Atlantic Gateway consortium of David Neeleman, and which have not been reversed in the meantime. The CFP presented a proposal for an addition to the parliamentary investigation project so that the following points can be added: the consequences of the privatisation of TAP decided in 2015 ; the decisions taken by the management of TAP, SGPS and TAP, S.A. since November 2015, in particular those who may have damaged the public interest and the role of protection in each of them ; the decision to impose a restructuring process on the company ; and the foreseeable consequences of the ongoing process for a fourth attempt to privatize the TAP. It is important not to forget a privatisation decided by the PSD/CDS government, already after the elections, when the government was unable to make such decisions. It is important not to forget that the PS government, instead of reversing this privatisation, chose to legitimize this process, keeping David Neeleman in control of the management of the TAP and with the greater portion of the results it achieved. It was at that time that Alexandra Reis entered for TAP, as shopping director, in 2017, in private management. It was at that time that Antonoaldo Neves entered for TAP, in 2018, by David Neeleman himself, for the company's executive president, and we were already aware of the millionaire compensation that was handed over to him. Knowledge about the consequences of this whole process of privatization and private management is essential to understand the situation in which TAP is today, even knowing the impacts of the pandemic that hit the civil aviation sector strongly. It is that, in view of these pandemic impacts, the private shareholders of Gateway quickly realized that they could not and did not want to capitalize on the company. It was necessary to capitalize the TAP. This is what happened, gentlemen. Members: TAP has been capitalised so as not to disappear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u71	And later, it was necessary to turn capitalization into social capital, because such privates disappeared from the scene. If TAP had continued in the hands of private capital, it would no longer exist today. It would be great news for the IL,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u72	And to the taxpayers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u73	... certainly for the PSD and, of course, for the economic groups and multinationals of the major powers of the sector. But the way this process was conducted, the agreements that were made with private shareholders and the support and compensation that were assigned already belong to the universe than it needs to be better known and evaluated. The losses that TAP and the public record faced in this third attempt that led to the privatisation of TAP go far beyond the salaries and other bites paid to the administrators, when the TAP was privatized and when the State took over its effective control. For example, part of the transformation of the fleet of TAP, carried out in the years of private management, was performed at the service of whom? TAP or Blue? The growth in the operation of the TAP fleet and the number of workers, carried out by private management and, essentially, reverted by restructuring, was a harmful or harmful decision was restructuring and who imposed it? By the end of 2019, under private management, was TAP balanced or on the edge of bankruptcy so that only a restructuring would allow public support to the company?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u75	If private management was a problem, why is the solution the new privatization?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u77	in the same way, it is essential to analyze the role of the European Union and the enormous losses its taxes have caused and cause the national economy, and the objective of concentrating Europe's flag airlines into three groups has been formulated, and these are the only three options accepted for the assimilation of TAP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There will certainly be no doubt about the need to analyse, clarify and thoroughly assess the responsibilities for shocking and obscene practices in these privileges and millionaire wages, but confining this commission of inquiry to these cases contributes to the degradation of the image and value of the TAP, to speed up and facilitate the privatization of the TAP, when what is required is to defend the company, defend the workers and effectively place the TAP in the service of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u78	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of the Committee of Inquiry is already long and has already given to understand the position of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party presents itself timidly to discuss this matter. On January 10, when the PS announced what it would do with the committee of inquiry, it said it would abstain. Today, because of these contacts and this noise, you understand that you are going to vote in favour, but not at all, it is only one of the Committee of Inquiry's proposals. It's a timid PS position.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u80	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u81	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u82	Who saw a PS with an absolute majority now sees this PS diminished and reduced to its uncomfortable position on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u84	The only truth or the only purpose that the PS has, in this discussion, is to save the Minister of Finance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u85	The only objective that the PS has is to save what remains of the Minister of Finance, whose political authority is diminished, as we have already stated. [[PSD applause.]] The PS or the chair of the committee of inquiry wanted. It was a « e-fuge». [[PSD Members' laughs.]] It makes an "accidentated flight" on this subject, but to escape evil can. It has no interest in the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u86	I thought I was gonna say we're the compressor roll!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u87	And the most surprising thing about this is that the PS isn't going to make all the proposals viable. And I ask: what is the difference with the other proposal that they said they were going to chumbar? You're afraid to go back there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u89	Exactly! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u90	It is a committee of inquiry that focuses on the issue of public interest and the use of public funds that have been injected into the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u91	Mr. Deputies, I already know you have no problem, but you have for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u92	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u93	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, be careful to listen, because I think it is important. There is a notice I wanted to make to the PS, and I will finish, Mr. President. I repeat, there is a warning I wanted to make to the PS: they do not have the temptation to come to the committee of inquiry to create a narrative of what does not exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u94	You can go to Secretary of State, Mr. Pedro Pinto!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u95	This committee is of inquiry—and no opposition party will abdicate that—is to prove the truth about the management of EUR 3, EUR 2 billion and, finally, we will know the restructuring plan that you have so much hidden from this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u96	We will now move on to the closing stage of the debate. The Bureau made a request for intervention by Mr André Ventura. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I think that, as we are getting to the end of this debate, three or four things are clear. It is clear to you, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, that the arrive, in fact, has argued that the state should save TAP, and we will never be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u99	We will never be ashamed to save a company for our emigrants, for our communities, for so many millions who live outside and want a flag company. Our big difference is this: yes, we wanted and accepted that taxpayers would save TAP, not to pay millions of compensation, not to pay the luxury BMW of TAP, but to save thousands of workers, families and small business suppliers, that you should also want to save. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We will never be ashamed to be with small businesses and workers in this country. But it is also clear that Parliament's role, because, Mr President, Pedro Nuno Santos only leaves the government and just says that, after all, he knew when the country learned that, after all, Mr. CEO of TAP had a written document demonstrating that the Ministry of Infrastructure had information on compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u100	He remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u101	How sad it is, in a democracy, to have to be after a hearing, which was made at the request of the Arrival, that the Minister remembers that in his WhatsApp, after all, he had the message: «Hello, Alexandra, you will always receive such money». It is shameful that a country should be managed in this way and shows how important this committee of inquiry is to go. The CFP, of course, wants to turn this into a political debate:....
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u102	So, but is this a football discussion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u103	...nationalization, privatization, what's best for the future and the past. Dear Members, turning this into a political debate is best not to investigate anything at all of the shameful compensation paid by this management. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u104	But is it an esoteric discussion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u105	They want me to be a clown, that's what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u106	What you want is to turn this into a political debate circus about whether it was best to go here or go there. The committees of inquiry do not serve to discuss nationalizations, they serve to investigate, and that is what the country has to do right now. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to make the following clear: we will not let Fernando Medina's role go blank in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u108	Fernando Medina became the Minister who knows absolutely nothing. He does not know that there is payment of compensation to TAP, even if the State has a financial administrator there. He does not know that there are spills at the Military Hospital of Belém, even if this spillage is from €700 000 to €3 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u109	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u110	You don't know what public debt is going to be, and you don't know anything at all. Today, our question is, then, what is the use of this Minister of Finance, who knows absolutely nothing? It's no use. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We will not let Fernando Medina play this tragedy and this scandal, which is the TAP. Fernando Medina had to know what was going on in the company financially protected by the State. Fernando Medina had to know why the Budget was spilling with taxpayers' money. Fernando Medina, if you didn't know, you'll have to know that taxpayers aren't here to pay for their incompetence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u112	Fernando Medina, your time is coming to an end. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u113	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this last speech, I would like to make a previous comment. when listening to all the benches, in particular the benches on my left, it seems that the parliamentary committee of inquiry is not worth much, because the honourable Members. Members already know all the conclusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u115	You haven't seen anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u116	You already know exactly what happened, so I'm not very well aware because you're so excited about the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I would also like to tell the PSD and Mr Carneiro — who is not here now — that, in fact, for the PS, to approve a parliamentary committee of inquiry with a proposal for a parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Arrival is not the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u117	Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u118	And if, for the PSD, there is no problem, for the PS there is a big issue of substance, which I hope will not have to explain to the honourable Members. Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u119	What is it? What's the point? You have to tell me who it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u120	Finally, I want to say something very important about the PSD. The PSD arrived today with a shy essay about what it would do with the TAP, with the pandemic, and the shy essay is basically like this: "For us, the privates who were there were dealing with the matter. Do not keep on seeking. ” They are the same private ones that promised profits of EUR 180 million in 2017, in 2018 and 2019, and they had a hole of EUR 200 million, making an even greater hole of EUR 380 million, against expectations. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] They are the same private ones who started and caught the company with a liability of EUR 2 billion — I repeat: EUR 2 billion — and ended 2019 with EUR 5 billion. They are the same private ones that in 2019 left a company with negative social capitals of 585 million euros. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And that is why Mr Paulo Rios — 585 million euros negative — that the TAP did not have access to the covered aid during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u121	But you don't want to privatize anymore? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u122	That is why the company, which was mismanaged, because the private ones you chose did not manage the company well, who did not have access to sheltered support. [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u123	Your privates will be much better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u124	And it is regrettable that the PSD proposal today is to hand over the company's salvation to the private, so that they will keep the profits and that the public sector and the Portuguese taxpayers will have all the damage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u125	There are private and private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u126	It is regrettable, Mr. Deputies. Finally, with regard to the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto insisted, in a timid manner, on the proposal of the Queen of the Liberal Initiative : to close the TAP and open another side. Mr President, today we can talk about this. Alitalia was like this: it had EUR 12 billion of losses, as you know, and it created a company next to it called ITA ( Italy Air Transport ) Airways. Only there is one problem, is that the ITA has half the planes, has reduced 40 % of workers' wages, and in the TAP it was 25 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u127	TAP too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u128	TAP, no. You know you don't. [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] And now you know what's gonna happen? Do you know what's gonna happen, sir? It will be sold to Lufthansa for 300 million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u129	It's already sold, after all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u130	For an intervention in the debate, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira : We did not know why the Socialist Party Government is going to sell TAP to Lufthansa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u132	It's for 5 'Enzos '!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u133	Mrs. Members, the political debate on the TAP is legitimate. The committees of inquiry are something else, and that is why the definition of their scope is so important. The Left Block Parliamentary Group, when it defined the scope of this committee of inquiry, made an option but we did not reject others. Other parliamentary groups, the Portuguese Communist Party, may understand to present other committees of inquiry and we will be here to follow these proposals, which may even arise following this committee of inquiry. However, the Left Block Parliament Group has taken an option: we believe that this committee of inquiry could not be above all, as proposed by the Liberal Initiative, the CFP and possibly the PSD, and you realize why. Because a committee of inquiry that is about everything doesn't investigate anything. But a committee of inquiry is also not about anything, as the Socialist Party seems to mean. The aim of this committee of inquiry is not only to find out who had responsibilities and who had guardianship; that is, much more than that. It is to know the contracts, wages, awards, in the context of a restructuring plan that imposed cuts on TAP workers ; it is to know what is the route of Alexandra Reis, who hired it and why ; it is to know whether the prizes are legal and compatible with the public interest; it is to know the decisions that are being taken at this time in TAP, by this CEO,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u135	... that they do not respect the public interest; it is responsible who has decided and who has the obligation to decide and also to reverse decisions that are incomprehensible. This is the scope, and it is very clear: a committee of inquiry which is not above all, because otherwise there will never be any conclusion, but which, too, is not about anything; it is precisely the case which brought us here. The parliamentary committee of inquiry, proposed by the Left Block, will be approved — as the various parliamentary groups say — and we can only expect that it will not be contaminated by empty party games and that its conclusions will not be lost in a much wider debate than the scope we propose here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u136	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the closing stage of the debate. Mr Filipe Melo has the floor to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, it becomes clear and clear that the Socialist Party is giving rise to a demand for the coming and approves one, much more restrictive, of the Block, for fear. Only and only fear, fear that more questions would be scrutinized than the PS wants to hide, but we will not let that become clear. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, it should be remembered that because of the TAP, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos said in this Chamber, on the bench of the Government, that he would continue here and that Mr Ventura would no longer be here. So I ask: where is Mr Pedro Nuno Santos? It's just that I see Mr. André Ventura here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As far as the TAP is concerned, let me tell you one thing: it says the premise of socialism that we are by sharing among all of the common work, advocated in a classless society. Well, 3000 redundancies of those who had wages between €1000 and €2000 ; managers to receive €500 000 per year and €2 million bonuses. My dear ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, you make your electorate so ashamed and anyone who has a pink card. If this is socialism, then this is the misfortune of our people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, three, two billion! Despite the Liberal Initiative coming to say what it wants to say about this, we always said, and we kept our position: we were — and we are — in favour of any capital injection that would be to maintain the company and the public company. A company without redundancies; a company that linked our communities to our diaspora; a company that contributed to the GDP of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u138	Looks like the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u139	We are not in favour of the Portuguese paying more and more taxes to support a company, to save a company, which will then be sold for a value far below that which our taxpayers put there. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, the question that I leave, to finish, is the following: is it true that you will sell TAP, the government will sell TAP, for a value far below that which was injected there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u140	With the money you approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u141	Is it or not true that this is going to be a big rumbe in the state vaults? Is it not true that this money that the Portuguese put there will never be redeemed? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u142	Mrs. Members, the Left Block also has the right to close the debate if you wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u143	Mr President, not being an obligation, we believe that our arguments have already been raised during the debate. We don't need to say any more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u144	All right. We then move on to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the scheme for start-ups and scales, amends the scheme for taxation of options plans for start-ups workers and innovation companies and strengthens the system of tax incentives in research and business development and of Law Projects No 503 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amendment to the Tax Benefit Statute, with a view to deepening transparency mechanisms and 506 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Encourages the return of Portuguese emigrants representing skilled labour and the recruitment of qualified young people. To submit Law No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), has the floor Mr. Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization, Mário Campolargo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u145	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: We have brought, and we are presenting today, a bill for which we are confident in the support of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This proposal is the result of a continuous work of three government areas, present here, which together decided to take this new step towards the development of the startup ecosystem in our country. We are convinced of the importance of this step for our future, as discussed here, to a large extent, for the clarification of doubts about concepts and metrics. It seems to us that the concrete definition of startups and scales will be important to build the ecosystem that we want and that we are talking about today, an ecosystem that we all want to be based on in a simpler and less bureaucratic process. Portugal is increasingly a country that stands out in the development of the startup ecosystem, due to its quality of life and, at the same time, to the bet of the last governments on the creation of a technical talent community, with innovation capacity and capable of attracting new businesses. And it is in this type of public policy that the government wants to continue to bet. To continue to form a relevant ecosystem at European level, it is essential to stimulate the creation and implementation of new business and new business models in the national territory and the retention and attraction of talents that bring high value added to our economy. It is in this sense that, in line with the Government Programme and with the EU Startup Nations Standard of Excellence ministerial declaration, we present this bill, which has two main objectives: the definition of startups and scales, which aims to clarify the future object of public policies in this area, and also a first set of tax incentives for these companies, showing the government's determination for concrete action. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, we seek to define, as objectively as possible, the concept of startup, crossing the concepts of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and innovation and using criteria adapted to the reality of our country, in line with those provided for in the European Startup Monitor, which is considered a reference in the European Union. In the same sense, we define the concept of scaleup, given its importance in valuing the entrepreneurship ecosystem. We also seek to establish a process of simple recognition, speedy and as less bureaucratic as possible. in this measure, the same is done by prior communication with Startup Portugal in digital format in the single portal of public services. The definition and application of these concepts, as well as their process of recognition and cessation, are taken as administrative simplification measures, with the aim of facilitating access to benefits and support for startups, particularly in the future. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than the definition of concepts and procedures, we have also established a first concrete and potentiating measure of our ecosystem: the tax regime of stock options. It is intended to exclude taxation at the time stock options are allocated and it is chosen for taxation solely at the time of alienation of shares or, finally, in the eventual loss of quality of resident in Portugal, avoiding abuse. at this time, a reduced tax rate is expected to be 50 %, thus resulting in an effective rate of taxation of 14 %. Portugal is thus converging with other European countries, including Spain, Greece, Ireland or Italy, but stands out by becoming one of the most competitive countries in this area. We also welcome the commitment to strengthening the system of tax incentives for research and business development — commonly known as SIFIDE — in order to continue to promote the research and development of the sector and, adding to this factor, to combat the situations of abuse of this benefit and that need to be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by strengthening the idea that this Government proposal aims to consolidate Portugal with a prominent place in the European entrepreneurship ecosystem, encouraging the capitalization of national and international talents and the promotion of competitiveness and innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u146	Mr. Secretary of State, two Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. As Mr Rui Tavares of the Free has already said that he will answer together to make the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u147	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretary of State, Mr Mário Campolargo State Secretary of State, within the Committee on Budgets and Finance, was -I was given the responsibility to deliver an opinion on this proposal from the Government and suggested - not completely playing - that she had a glossary at the end, because it would do no harm if she applied a little thought to de-courting, in Portuguese, if a startup and a scaleup could not be companies that are emerging and ascending and even if the reality of the stock options in Small Mid Cap is compatible with what is the life of the precarious majority in this country, which needs, yes, innovation solutions for the future. Or is it just about attracting talent to Oeiras Valley and Lisbon South Bay or other innovations and then drinking a drink on your roof? I think this is the first speech I make that I'm really sure the Liberal Initiative realizes everything. [[Rice from PS, PSD, IL and PCP Members.]] And thinking in Portuguese—and it's not just a matter of vocabulary— doesn't mean thinking from inside out and how does Portuguese reality add anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u148	You haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u149	It is in this sense that my question goes, which is the following: we only import the methodology of the stock options of Silicon Valley is, in fact, the best way of, in Portugal, a programmer, a translator, a graphic designer can do what in Portuguese, but in Brazil, is called a "local productive arrangement", i.e. a very light company, without social capital, which can be trained and have a lot of flexibility?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u150	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u151	Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, and with this end, said that this proposal had in mind the national reality, but did not mention exactly what, so I ask you can develop in which it is adapted to the local reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u152	I didn't understand anything. Say it again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u153	To formulate the second request for clarification, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, at first it was the verb, and the verb, the government said, was innovating, innovating works, innovating is needed, but once again, the government is failing. We note the incompetence of the government, a tibio in the implementation of the objectives it itself sets, then failing in the implementation, in the supervision, in the regulation, in the follow-up of the incentives it itself assigns. With regard to SIFIDE, in particular, which has existed since 1997, in recent years, part of the use is through venture capital funds, which almost seems to be embarrassing both the government and many parties in this House. Actually, what's the matter here? A tax credit to companies, which, in some cases, is not channelled as it should, in an ideal of effective research and development, and often, from the outset, due to a lack of adequate rules. A failure, once again, of this government, allowing this instrument to often be instrumentalized in order to recover money that companies owe to the State, often abusively, almost extortively, on the part of the State. If the rules are wrong, they change; but the rules cannot change so as to let things work. Another problem is also the lack of supervision. The State should not be where it is not necessary and assume its supervisory and regulatory functions. That is exactly where the State has failed again. In this regard, we recall the audit known this week, which, too, is late, but on which we want to address a few questions, particularly on the National Innovation Agency ( National Innovation Agency ( National Innovation Agency ) which continues to have an active role in the proposal which is under consideration today. The National Innovation Agency is responsible, among other things, for certifying companies eligible for investments, on the part of the funds, and apparently not having the means or powers conferred. So the first questions on this subject are the following: first, what concrete measures are being taken to provide the ANI with the appropriate means for monitoring investments? Secondly, of the various recommendations, what does the Government intend to implement and what time limit will it set for the evaluation of the amendments introduced, so that in this House we can vote on the result of those amendments? Specifically on this proposal, the questions are the following: why limit the commissions that may be charged by the funds? Why eliminate the increase in the 50-percentage incentive by discriminating only the funds? What is the rationale for reducing investment deadlines? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u155	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State Mário Campolargo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rui Tavares and Mr Carla Castro, thank you very much for the questions you asked me. I hope that we can make an assessment of the proposal we have on the table, not by the English terminology used or not used, but by the substance, because the substance is particularly important than the use or reference to foreign words, which are, in many cases, used in the common language. The definition of startup goes through a definition consistent with that of SMEs in Portugal, contributing to ensure that these companies, either because they are based in Portugal or because they have 25 workers working in Portugal, are not small companies created by large companies, and is particularly objective in the three aspects that we consider to be fundamental: being a company with a high potential for developing, with a new business model, guaranteed products or services or to which the National Innovation Agency has recognised suitability; having venture capital financing, in this case too, by entity with the supervision of CMM ; or having access to capital instruments through the Portuguese Development Bank or other funds. So I think we have a well-adapted articulate to Portuguese reality. As regards Mrs Carla Castro's intervention, which I would like to thank, as she will recognise, we have two objectives, in particular with regard to SIFIDE : one, correcting the regime precisely in the areas which can avoid abuse; another, as the ANI has already acknowledged some inability to control, will be reinforced with new government measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u157	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is today information on the number, value, type and recipient of all the tax benefits given by the State, the same does not happen with the remaining tax expenditure that does not take the form of benefit, such as deduction to collectable material, deduction to collection, deferral of taxation or preferential rate. In fact, with regard to this tax expenditure, we only know the global values provided for in the State Budget and General Account and we do not know for which sectors and for which entities this expenditure is going, nor their form or value. We're completely sold. We do not know whether tax expenditure is in line with the objectives of the decarbonisation that the country is linked to, whether it is favouring companies with good social practices, or whether it is being given to companies that promote aggressive tax planning. This opacity is not admissible, even further when we know that only this year we will spend EUR 15 billion on tax expenditure, a value that is three times more than the amount of the expenditure planned for the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, or even more than half of the total expenditure planned for the Ministry of Education. The Court of Auditors has appealed for greater transparency and information on the tax expenditure incurred by the State. Therefore, in order to ensure the response to this appeal, the natural step is, as the NAP proposes today, to extend the information that the Tax Authority already gives on tax benefits to all the tax expenditure defined in accordance with the OECD criteria ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). Finally, as regards the Government's proposal, it should be noted that, by deepening the environmental sustainability component of SIFIDE, it meets a proposal which the NAP has submitted a few weeks ago and which is currently in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, and we therefore welcome it on this dimension. On the other hand, we hope that, in the field of expertise, there will indeed be an opportunity to deepen the various mechanisms that should promote transparency, whatever the size of the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u159	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : A OECD study concluded that Portugal could have more than 280 000 entrepreneurs, and one of the reasons why this does not happen is precisely the lack of qualified labour, which is partly justified by emigration. in this same study, the OECD recommends that governments increase funding for designated startups, especially for young people, as well as recommend skills improvement programs, especially in financial literacy, digital knowledge and business. It is true that Portugal has programmes to support young entrepreneurship and some specific support for the immigrant population, however, have been clearly insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u162	Nearly 80% of young people believe that there are fewer opportunities to get jobs in Portugal. In the low-wage market, around 72 % of young employees receive less than €950 per month, which has encouraged the desire to emigrate by almost one third of young workers. In 2021, about 60 000 Portuguese emigrated more than 15 000 in the previous year. Portugal has always been a country of emigrants, however, the type of people who decide to leave the country has changed over the past few years. Following the higher level of academic training of the Portuguese population in general, our emigration is increasingly well qualified: in 2014 29 % of emigrants had completed an academic degree in higher education and in 2019 this percentage rose to 42 %. This implies that the State's investment in the training of young people is largely wasted and taken advantage of by other countries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u164	... that is, an investment is made in the training of young people who, after that, do not have the proper recognition in Portuguese society and end up emigration, not having the proper return to the development of the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, after all, what are the motivations for the exit of Portuguese with higher education? These are, above all, professional and economic motivations. As regards occupational reasons, for example, only 54 % of the migrants who worked before emigration had work compatible with their training, moving to 75 % after emigration. With regard to economic reasons, wage differences are impressive: in Portugal, 73 % of migrants earned less than € 1000, while in the country of destination more than 50 % received more than € 2000 and 27 % more than € 3000. Given this context, it is natural that most emigrants do not intend to return permanently to Portugal and 57 % consider nothing or even not likely to return permanently to their country. According to the United Nations, in 2020 there were about 2 million Portuguese immigrants, with the highest ever value of Portuguese immigrants in the world being reached. Portugal is 20. the country of the world with more people emigrants, compared to the number of residents, being the 5. or in Europe. Portugal is only surpassed by some Eastern European countries such as Croatia, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Romania, being far from all the Western European countries. In 2021, there are signs that there were more Portuguese to leave the country than before the pandemic period. The great truth is that the Portuguese economy is little attractive to investment, having lost competitiveness in recent years. Portugal currently occupies 42. the position in 63 countries in the ranking of global competitiveness, contributing to this, in large part, a very unattractive tax system. In terms of general classification, Portugal has 3. the less competitive tax system of OECD, i.e. 36. the classification in 38 countries, according to the annual report of the international tax competitiveness index of 2022, recently published by the Tax Foundation. In Portugal, most entrepreneurs are micro-enterprises. We cannot ignore that microenterprises account for 96% of Portuguese business fabric. We are talking about more than 1, 2 million companies, absorbing 44 % of employment, more than 2 million workers, and their turnover represents 36 % of Portuguese GDP, i.e. about 72 billion euros. In view of the logic of encouraging startups and ensuring that there is sufficient labour and with necessary qualifications, the arrival proposes the temporary exemption from the payment of the contribution to social security to companies that hire Portuguese migrants returning to our country, as well as to qualified young people, by complying with certain criteria. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u165	Good afternoon to all and to all, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Rui Afonso, Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Rui Afonso, it is always good to discuss in this House, on the one hand, the qualified young people, on the other hand, what the country must do to ensure that we succeed in attracting migrants who have already left our country, and therefore the PSD Parliamentary Group presented even an initiative yesterday so that the Return Programme can be opened to all those who have left our country after 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u167	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u168	We perceive the 2015 goal, which is to always put the discussion from a political point of view, but for example, according to data from the Emigration Observatory, since 2015, more than 180 000 people have left Portugal permanently—because, between permanent and temporary, we reach almost half a million people. But if we are faced with this issue, we can ask: why do our young people emigrate, which is also the subject of this initiative? It could present many indicators, all known. But this scourge, I can summarize it in four major indicators. They are the low wages, with three out of four young people earning less than €950 and one out of three receiving the minimum wage, the salary of young graduates, who fell 15 % in the last decade, and, finally, what is, perhaps, the macro indicator of socialist management, with regard to housing — still have to be doing the foundations — which is the worst age of leaving the parents: 34 years. It is normal for young people in Portugal to give up their lives, because this socialist government always puts them before a dilemma: either give up their life project, or give up the country. Unfortunately, we know exactly what the reality has been. So, honourable Member, do you understand that this project that arrives will do something concrete to change this dilemma in which young people have to give up, or the country, or their life plan? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u169	To reply, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u170	Madam President, Mr Alexandre Poço, I would like to thank the question. In the 40 years when the PSD has been in the national political landscape, I will tell you the concrete proposals I think they have put forward for young people. The speaker displayed a blank sheet. You see? Zero! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u171	That's an ardrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u172	Our proposal is concrete: it presents the exemption or partial reduction of social security contributions to qualified young people and those long-term unemployed who want to return to our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u174	That is our concrete proposal. I am still waiting for your proposal because, really, at the moment, there is none. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u175	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u176	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Portugal has shown strong, sustainable growth in 2022 and above forecasts of 6, 7 %, the largest since 1987.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u177	And you believe that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u178	In today's debate, why bring this data? Oh, my God! It is because they have a clear correlation with the correct path of economic policies and the path taken by Portuguese companies in response to the pandemic and resilience to the conflict in eastern Europe. But I could not stop sharing — until we talked about the emigration of young people — who, last year, only 60 000 young people left, when, in 2013, the year of "inviting" the young people to leave" came out of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Alexandre Poço.]] I also stress that the data show that the weight of public debt presented the best result of the last 12 years. Why do I share this? Oh, my God! Because no one can deny that this data is very important for the risk premium to be paid by companies and the State in the financial markets. This is also a very positive factor for the financing of the state and our companies. Even on GDP, according to factual data, values are above all existing forecasts. I ask you to try to deny this fact! That alone should lead the prophets of misfortune, as well as those who once again looked forward to—as they have since 2015—the devil at every corner, taking up their mistake and realizing that they will continue to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these data bring more confidence to the future challenges, particularly for the year 2023, and the gross domestic product, for economists, simply the sum of the added values — also for companies — that are discussed here. in this context, it is important to take into account the data on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent 50 % of exports. According to the Office of Strategy and Studies of the Ministry of Economics, innovation represents 11% of the business volume of companies, and these data justify the importance of this legislative initiative that the Government brings to us. Startups and scaleups, taxation of remuneration schemes based on the options for acquiring social shares and a system of tax incentives, notably SIFIDE, are the three themes that are still discussed here today. Startups are usually defined as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that have an innovative business model or are dedicated to activities with a strong innovation component and with accelerated growth potential. In relation to scaleups, these are companies that have the same characteristics, but which are of greater size. It is important to define these criteria well and it is important to define the regulation of these companies well. That is what the government is introducing to us. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to facts, even if they are not accepted by some of the VVs. For example, startups account for 1, 1 % of our country's GDP and we have over 2200 registered startups, 13 % above the European Union average. They represent more than 27 000 jobs and, in 2021, whether they want to believe in this number or not, patent applications from Portugal have increased by almost 14 %, the highest percentage growth in the European Union. Portuguese startups have incurred more than EUR 311 million between 2015 and 2020. They therefore play a key role in starting up initial investments. With regard to SIFIDE, we also started with data: since 2006 it has supported some 6000 companies, with investment in innovation and development achieved by more than EUR 7 billion. by existing studies, this instrument has an important multiplier effect. Of course, there are abuses that must be combated and mechanisms that need to be improved, as the IGF report made clear, but it is also important to note that the government is responding — and well — to many of these issues in the bill. With regard to the IGF report, I begin by stressing the effectiveness of this mechanism in promoting private investment and its positive impact on the outcome of business and employment. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end with the essential: this initiative aims to support the country's growth and economic development, and these data are unforgettable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u179	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have come to this debate and we have heard the Secretary of State talk about the Government's proposal. I was scared to watch and think, "Are you going to talk about SIFIDE? It's just that there too, it's not in another degree. Do not keep on seeking. ” In the end, Mr Secretary of State refers to SIFIDE in a very short time. He almost didn't even talk about it, but it's one of the most important issues of this degree. The question is that the PS and the government have been fleeing this issue since the end of last year. In the State Budget of 2023, they refused a proposal from the PSD to end tax abuse and refused to come to the debate on January 6, when we discussed this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u181	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u182	Let me tell the government and the honourable Members. PS Members of one thing: we are only discussing this today because the PSD — or any other party — did not oppose it. We are in the same legislative session discussing exactly the same thing that you refused to discuss! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u183	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u184	This proposal makes a way to end tax abuse, but it does not completely end them. So we have a question, which is whether you are. Members of the PS and the Government are available to, in the specialty, correct some of the things that are in this proposal. For example, the government ends—and this is positive—with double benefit for research and development companies, but in special relations, by referring to the IRS Code (tax on income of natural persons), it is not clear what happens to business groups. I will explain: a company may invest in an investment fund that will, in turn, invest in another company that belongs to the group of the first company, which will also benefit from this SIFIDE scheme. This is tax planning—to the limit, even aggressive tax planning—and this is not corrected by the Government's proposal. But there are more: do I have reservations, but if you want to keep the investment funds — indirect investments — are available to limit up to 49, 99 % the investments that a participant can make in an investment fund? Are they available for that? It is that we can have fully verticalized funds dominated by a single company—and we are talking about a large company—that will make aggressive fiscal planning, purely and simply. Nothing is said about this matter. The Government insists on maintaining investment funds, but then creates another sui generis situation: it obliges 90 % of the investment captures to be effectively carried out, leaving 10 % for management committees. You need to understand how this works out there; it's not doing things on paper and offices and then you don't understand how these things happen. Do you know what this is going to be? Oh, my God! This will lead to the artificial formation of funds by large companies, eliminating the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u186	This is not resolved by the Government's proposal. I would therefore like to know what the government thinks about this and whether it is willing to correct these situations, since they do not say anything about it either. Then, as far as stock options are concerned, they are obliged to maintain investments for at least one year when the previous law — not in a regime exactly as it is now — required two years. Why one? Why not the two? Are we talking about speculative investments, in which the goal is to gain interest, or are we talking about supporting companies, capitalising them and strengthening their capital position? In conclusion, I want to say the following : the IGF has made a report on the investments of SIFIDE. We all know that, through indirect investments, abuse has been immense, and this Government proposal does not solve many of the issues in this IGF report on monitoring and monitoring. Are, for example, available to include the obligation, in the diploma, to publish management reports and investment fund accounts on the ANI website? Are they available for that? That's what the PSD proposed. They don't say anything. It's all opaque, it's all the same. So let's not go there, my lords. I hope you have the good sense of correcting the many and many mistakes this law has in its specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u187	Mr. Hugo Carneiro has a request for clarification. Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u188	Mr President, Mr Carneiro, do you really believe that Mr Carneiro has brought to this House the possibility — 'assumingly', Mr President, that we have refused to discuss better and to introduce amendments to a diploma, when it is said, in favour of the truth, that was the challenge we did two weeks ago and you refused? Oh, my God! Is it true or not — and this is the question — that the PS has challenged the PSD to bring down your diploma without a vote, so that we can introduce some of the amendments that you have proposed? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u189	To reply, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u190	Madam President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I do not know whether PS works in part-time, but PSD does not work in part-time. We are working here, we are presenting our proposals and we demand that they be discussed and voted on. That's what we did! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: I started by saying a few words. I told eight times the word « ecosystem », which left me immediately to think about what debate we were on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u193	He can count to eight, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u194	Then I lost the account when we entered « startups », « scaleups », « stock options », « nation of excellence », « European startup monitor », in addition to « talent retention », « talent attraction », « talent community », « competitiveness », « entrepreneurship », among others. What the government is bringing us is not a proposal for public policy; it is the electoral programme of the Liberal Initiative, without taking or putting away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u195	You have supported the IL program for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u196	The Secretary of State spoke to us about the substance and said that the substance of the proposal is important. It happens that the only substance in this proposal, when it is well squeezed, is tax benefits. And then we go back to the election program of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u197	It's an abuse of trust!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u198	The Government of the Socialist Party refuses to make industrial policy and not only believes that it has to adopt empty terms — empty! — on supposed innovation, modernity and competitiveness, as does policy as the Liberal Initiative to do: giving tax benefits. We ask: for what? Oh, my God! What sectors are you developing for? What areas? And what the government tells us is that it does not matter, provided they are startups with many innovations, that they pay in stock options and, eventually, that they use block chains! Because the use of these terms seems to be the criterion that the government finds to confer tax benefits, and this is its way of doing industrial policy. This is how public money is being spent and it is exactly this criterion that makes taxpayers' money being used, for example, to fund the Web Summit, which has money to fund their own activity. But no, the event is funded with the taxpayers' money and the City Hall of Lisbon, even if the Web Summit is done by Zoom, or decentralization, or whatever, because it has happened. It is precisely this principle of little rigour in public accounts and the way public investment is done that in the last decade it has been spent 3500 million euros in SIFIDE, a programme whose consequences and results are not evaluated, which in fact raises huge doubts about fraud and abuse. These abuses concern a very particular issue, which has to do with venture capital funds. I would like to stress that I heard the Minister for Economic Affairs say that I was going to end SIFIDE for venture capital funds. I said this here, in my face and in the face of all the Members who were in this debate. But then came the lobby of venture capital funds and the government retreated. In fact, it seems practical in this House to see the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group or the Government retreat when a lobby imposes its views—which, by the way, scares the government, as far as its positions are concerned. Therefore, the government has given up ending venture capital funds in SIFIDE and maintains a tax benefit that has no justification. However, when we look at what is relevant, that is, what is the percentage of public money spent on research and development in Portugal, we see that Portugal is on the tail of Europe — we are behind Chipe, behind Croatia, behind Greece. Public investment figures in research and development embarrass us, while we have the most attractive tax regimes in Europe for startups, scales and whatever. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed a lot today about how talent attracts, and I would like to give you a suggestion. What if the government is to experience a high-wage policy—starting with the public service, which also needs talent—wages that compensate for inflation? There must be dignity at work, combating precariousness, working conditions, investment in research, ending with the precariousness of researchers supporting universities and research centres. Perhaps this is a more concrete and consistent policy than this tax benefit ecosystem, which seems to be the only policy that the government knows. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u199	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Less than a month ago, the PCP brought to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic a bill for the repeal of SIFIDE, with the aim of transferring the associated tax expenditure to a true research and development programme, involving the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology), the National Science and Technology System and companies, prioritising the productive sectors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u201	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u202	The PS has led this proposal, as well as the various initiatives aimed at removing investment funds from SIFIDE, which have been the main beneficiaries of a tax stock that already goes to more than EUR 3500 million, almost EUR 400 million per year. We put our position back on the table. Research and development is an area of great importance to the country's economic development, to increase technological integration, to increase value creation and to enhance work. It is because it is so important that the State should play a key role in defining priorities, strategic sectors to be developed, for a real industrial policy. Instead, we have a system that places fiscal incentive as a panacea for all problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u203	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u204	Do you need to create a job? Oh, my God! A tax bill is created. Need research and development? Oh, my God! Another tax bill is created. Do companies need attractiveness? Oh, my God! Another tax bill is created. Do you need to increase wages? Oh, my God! The State pays the difference, subsidizing the low wages with more tax bills. This is the neoliberal policy of the PS, which the parties on his right wanted him to go even further.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u206	Here, the Government now proposes to amend SIFIDE, with the alleged purpose of eliminating the misuse of this scheme by investment funds, which duplicated the tax ruling. However, the Government does not end with the possibility of resorting to this tax regime by investment funds, despite the fact that the domain of investment funds in companies is to undermine business strategies in quick profit logics and dividend distributions, not in medium- and long-term and investment logics. But it's worse. In the midst of this amendment to SIFIDE, which seeks to resolve what should never have happened, the government does other things: it extends the tax bond granted to investments in the ecological design of products from 110 % to 120 % and extends the possibility of deduction of expenditure within the scope of SIFIDE, where they cannot be deducted within the same period from 8 to 12 years. This is where the maneuver is! By saying that they want to resolve the abuses associated with SIFIDE, the Government repeats the revenue it did in the State budget for 2023 — at the time, in respect of tax damages — this time by extending the deferral period of expenditure within the framework of SIFIDE, giving more pleasant amounts to venture capital funds while maintaining the bulk of tax revenue at the expense of workers and pensioners. Moreover, when defining the concepts of startup and scaleup in the form of a law, the Government is preparing to cover a policy of support that discriminates against the rest of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, even those dedicated to innovation and technology sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u208	We understand that it is necessary to support the business fabric, but without discriminating the startups of the broader set of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which deserve the same support, whether they have 2, 10, 20 or 30 years of existence. The Government also wants to create a tax incentive for acquiring social shares in startups. Thus, the income processed into shares is considered to be only 50 % and may be taxed at a special rate of 28 %. In other words, instead of being accounted for by the normal IRS tables, like all other incomes, only 14 % are taxed, far below the taxation to which other incomes are subject, in an unacceptable situation of tax injustice. The country needs investment and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It needs public investment incentive policies, starting with public investment, and not State budgets that are always far below the execution, as happened in 2022, according to recent data coming to the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u209	Again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u210	The increase in public investment was a seventh of what the Government had foreseen, with EUR 2400 million below the forecast, in a budget which was not approved one year in advance, but in May of the year 2022. Nevertheless, the Government has left to execute EUR 2400 million of public investment. How do you want to promote investment in the economy, if the State itself does not set the example and if the various governments have successively maintained these very low levels of public investment implementation?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u211	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u212	The State needs to fulfil its role in investment, but the policy of the PS Government has failed, and much, in this regard. With this initiative, the Government and the PS intend to continue to delegate to tax benefits what should be a priority for the Government. In addition, the policy that discriminates against support for companies, not because of its size, but because of other criteria, which eventually exclude much of micro and small enterprises, even those that are not startups, are often those that innovate and represent greater value added and employment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u213	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This diploma legally defines the so-called startups and scaleups — as well as their regulatory framework — as companies with high growth potential, usually technologically based and innovative business models. It also addresses the tax benefits given to workers. It also recognizes various forms of funding — such as businessangels, SIFIDE, among others — and the importance of innovation and the research and development process. And the first conclusion that is drawn — and very well — is that the Government confirms that tax incentives result.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u215	Here it is! The PS, the Liberal Initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u216	This diploma also indicates that workers, when they take part in the risk or when more contribute to success, should be better rewarded. We agree! However, let me go further in relation to this diploma. Low taxation attracts investment, low taxation attracts talent, low taxation promotes innovation, low taxation promotes the integration of key workers into the production process of companies. Welcome! It is true to say that low taxation works and Portugal is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u218	The second thought and conclusion that we have taken is: why this direction? Why not extend these good principles to other sectors of the economy? Part of this diploma says that startups and scales workers, because they risk, because they are more efficient, will have more advantageous tax conditions. All right. The diploma is also part of the principle that innovation and technology are the keys to growth. All right. It's just that we're falling back into the reducing and indirect mistakes, because I already know -- we've had a lot of discussions here -- that some use these terms as if it were something very sexy and modern, others use this as if it were something to ridicule and others as if it were to translate. In the end, what do we have? Oh, my God! In the end, we don't have the terms, but we have the results. And the results of the economic policy and fiscal policy of Portugal and the Government are these: we are at the heart of Europe in productivity, investment, research and development, in all this. Therefore, in fact, what we have are criteria and more criteria, which induce planning, consulting and greater concern to meet the criteria themselves than to create added value. at this time, instead of empowering, simplifying, reducing and then, yes, monitoring, policies are more oriented to complexify, arranging criteria and criteria, in boxes and drawers, and then failing essential functions. However, we need investment to get out of here. We need good, very, reproductive investment. Investment, research and development values are 1, 69 % of GDP, which is far away from 3 % which is our goal. To that end, we need another economic and fiscal policy. And we can, yes, do more, extend the gains. We are not afraid of return on investment in more sectors. The Liberal Initiative defends this in startups and scales of all dimensions, industry, agriculture, services, health clusters, wherever. It's important that the market works. In short, we need a culture that encourages, yes, risk and investment, we need an environment of greater productivity and lower context costs. The country needs not only more investment, but also less state and less direction. Instead of more legislative layers, what we really need is to simplify and lower the tax burden, because, yes, low taxation works and Portugal is needed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u219	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Gabriel Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u220	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are going to have to go back a bit, because, on the basis of the draft law of the Government, which establishes the regime applicable to startups and scales, a draft law submitted by the Chega was dragged for this discussion, which aims to encourage the return of Portuguese immigrants who represent qualified labour and the hiring of qualified young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u221	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u222	Now, this proposal is nothing less than a box of some of the measures that already exist, which are implemented and implemented, and it corresponds only to a populist impulse of the Arrival, which thus aims to draw a black and false picture of reality, as you can see in the explanatory statement itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u223	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u224	Otherwise, let us see: as regards the allocation of incentives for the recruitment of migrant workers returning to Portugal, there is already the Regressing Programme - which, in fact, has already been referred to by the PSD itself - which the Government has strengthened in 2022 and within which the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional) has received 6800 candidatures by the end of the year, representing 15 000 people, including candidates and family members. I note that 72 % of these applications are approved and cover support for the return of 10,000 emigrants, including their family aggregate. More than 40% of the candidates have higher education and 35% are young adults up to 34 years old. of these candidates, 88, 2 % have employment contracts on behalf of others, of which 60 % are unfinished. I also stress that these measures provided for in the Return Programme involve several areas of government and not just those proposed by you. From then on, they include a more favourable tax regime for returnees, financial support for immigrants and their families working for Portugal and a line of credit to support business investment and the creation of new businesses. In conjunction with this Regressor Programme, there is also the MEASURI Internal Employment measure, which guarantees a set of cumulative support with this Return Program when the workplace and residence are inside Portugal. This programme already has 1800 applications, of which 50 % are approved, effectively supporting a total of 1600 people, including candidates and their family members. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is already support for the return of our emigrants, those who were sent to emigrate between 2011 and 2015 in the context of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u225	And it's been a while! No one's ever immigrated again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u226	So, as far as this is concerned, we're talking. With regard to support for the recruitment of qualified young people, the arrival does not seem to know the Sustainable Employment Commitment measure, which provides support for these young people precisely, within which 22 000 applications have been submitted, and 63 % are approved, supporting a total of 14,500 jobs without end, which totals 116 million euros of support, of which 46 % are for workers up to 35 years. This measure is, in fact, an incentive for the recruitment and entry of qualified young people into the labour market, with the value of their wages, and provides for a set of increases in financial support for permanent contracts, not only support for businesses, but also for these young people, in order to double the basic value of support for companies. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, arriving here wanted to invent the wheel, in a matter where the wheel was already invented. Is it possible to improve? It is indeed possible. And that is what we are doing, in particular with this proposal from the Government, which has been presented here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u227	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The objective of the legislative initiative of the NAP is the greatest relevance, we were not talking about a tax expenditure that in 2021 amounted to more than EUR 13 billion, after noting that for years the Court of Auditors has been alerting for the lack of information on expenditure on the part of the tax benefits in Portugal. For years we have talked about the need to move forward with an assessment of the degree of implementation of each of the tax benefits and whether each of them is corresponding, or not, to the objective that it has presided over to its allocation. In this regard, it is worth recalling that in 2019 the report submitted by the Working Group on Tax Benefits, created by the Government a year earlier, suggested the creation of a technical unit for this purpose. The government, as usual, hurriedly said yes, that it would move forward in that direction quickly. The promise therefore became an announcement; the announcement was sold as a reality, but three years later, the propagated technical unit did not see the light of the day. We share the concerns of the NAP initiative, but we all know that problems are not solved by decree. It is not enough to legislate, it is necessary that what we propose from the legislative point of view is feasible, feasible and feasible. It is precisely this circumstance which, from our point of view, lacks a better demonstration and which will only be achieved if the discussion continues in the specialty. in this sense, the PSD will enable this discussion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u229	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Nuno Félix has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during this debate we heard some parties say that "at first it was the verb" and that this government had, as a verb, "innovate works, innovate is needed". Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, word and action. When we look at research and development statistics, we see that in 2015 this area represented 1, 2 % of GDP and in recent data it already represented 1, 7 % of GDP. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] We are talking about an average annual growth of 7% since 2015. When we talk about research and development, we talk about giving added value to the products and services of our companies; we talk about giving sustainability to our exports; we talk about increasing the critical mass of our business fabric. And this growth, at the level of research and development, is done not only, but also thanks to tax benefits such as that of SIFIDE, here today so discussed. But we could also, instead of discussing tax benefits, discuss the Mobilizing Agendas within the framework of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and its guidance for the promotion of research and development, because all these initiatives come together in a single mobilization strategy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a long discussion about the system of tax incentives for research and business development, in which, on so many pages, we have discussed not only how far it could be improved, but even the adequacy of the rules themselves. Let me therefore briefly quote the recent report of the General Financial Inspection which concluded: « Several technical studies have concluded that this incentive is effective in promoting private investment in research and development, and the results and impact indicators used in this audit also point to the effectiveness of the incentive. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must then « separate the wheat from the juicy», i.e. to have an incentive which works and promotes research and development, and, on the other hand, to know how to identify abusive situations, of double benefit, through investment funds, through venture capital. It is not a matter of prohibiting the activity of funds, it is not a matter of restricting the way in which companies capture their investment; it is a matter of limiting double benefit and tax planning practices using these funds. [[PSD protests.]] Allow me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is an example of transparency in tax benefits. We certainly have a way to improve, but annually a tax expenditure report is published containing information on the tax benefits by sector and by type of benefit, and we also have an annual publication of the list of main beneficiaries of tax benefits by tax benefit. If this is not transparency, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we may have to have a new concept. Finally, in relation to the challenge which has been launched on improvements to this diploma in the field of specialty, the Government is responsible for respecting the sovereign prerogative of the Assembly of the Republic to work on the diplomas proposed by the Government, and our objective is this which I have told you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: maintain incentive, maintain promotion, avoiding fraud and abuse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u231	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u232	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Many speak in this Parliament, but we put forward proposals. This is a great difference that we have in relation to most of the parties present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u234	The proposal from the Commission is clear, very clear: incentives and support for firms to hire young people who are seeking the first job and young people who are qualified. We also want the long-term unemployed to have quality jobs, unlike the Socialist Party, which is to give more and more subsidies. Here's a big difference. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We also give importance to the return of our migrants to Portugal. And how can they come back? Oh, my God! They return when we give them better health conditions; they return when they give them better wages and better living conditions. These are three fundamental factors for our emigrants to return. Mr. Jorge Gabriel Martins, the Regressar Program is important, yes, but it has not worked and has to agree with me that it has not worked. Our proposal is to extend much more the number of beneficiaries of your programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u236	Then, Mr Hugo Costa, I don't know if it's from the so-called "Costa", but what's true is that you came here to say that GDP is better, that we're better, that the country is better. He reminded Antonio Costa that, on Monday, in a debate, he had the disclaimer to say that the Portuguese gained the power to buy, when, on the same weekend, the news that three million Portuguese live with 660 €—660 € is not living, Mr. Deputies, is to survive, in this country! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u237	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u238	I will finish, Madam President. Mr. Jorge Gabriel Martins said that arriving paints a black and false picture of reality. That's not true, sir. In fact, the honourable Member reminded me...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u239	Mr President, you have not heard me, but I have asked you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u240	Madam President, I said it would be over by now. Thank you very much for your condescendence. the way Mr. Deputies spoke, even it seems that in 2015 the Portuguese ceased to emigrate. I will just remind you that in 2021 60 000 Portuguese had to leave the country because of the policies of the Socialist Party. This is the great truth! [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa and Jorge Gabriel Martins.]] Finally, Madam President, according to data from the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation, 53% of young people in Portugal earn less than € 767, I repeat 53% of young people! Keep these numbers. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u241	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I leave three final notes in the context of this debate. The first is to tell Mrs Carla Castro that yes, targeted tax incentives give good results; IRC (tax on the income of the public) plan, no, we do not agree. It seems obvious to me what we've been defending. Second question: Mrs Deputy brought to this House several criticisms, but the Liberal Initiative did not present any proposals, either for supervision or to improve the system. They presented absolutely nothing, and this is noted in this debate. On the other hand, the lack of rigour is not very interesting for a party that wants to be an alternative. To say that we are on the tail of Europe, when in research and development we are 12. in 27 countries, it seems a little excess of language on the part of the Liberal Initiative. [[IL Carla Castro's Chamber of Deputies.]] On the PSD and on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carneiro, I would like to say the following: - in fact, the policy for photography, such as Mr Deputies, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is doing - either in full-time or in part-time, it does not matter - is totally irresponsible, because they do not contribute to what they say they want to contribute. [[Rice from PSD Members Alexandre Poço and Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] What the PS did was open the door to discuss and to include PSD proposals, and the PSD became a compressor role of its own proposals, which is absolutely regrettable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I want to say the following: the left wants a lot of public investment and despises private investment. What is at stake here is in fact a stimulus to private investment and, in particular, an incentive to research and development when talking about SIFIDE, although this diploma is not just about SIFIDE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u243	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u244	I will finish, Madam President. I would just like to tell Mrs Mariana Mortágua that doing industrial policy is also giving this stimulus to research and development and, above all, to new businesses and small businesses. This seems very important and it is unfortunate that the Left Block does not understand that. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u245	For a short speech, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: from this last speech by Mr Carlos Pereira, what we find is that he is still disturbed by the debate of the TAP Committee of Inquiry. I understand, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u247	It didn't go well, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u248	Let us see something, Mr President: still today in the morning, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, there was a set of proposals from some parties that are here, about bank committees that have gone down without a vote, and the PS agreed that they would come down without a vote. They hoped, I imagine, that these parties could, with the PS, reach a consensus in the committee. Do you know what the result was today in the committee? Oh, my God! The PS is not interested in reaching consensus. [[PS protests.]] This is nice to do: since we are not interested in the debate, we ask that the diplomas be brought down to their committee without a vote, we deal with the matter as long as we do not dominate the agenda and then make our proposals viable. That is the strategy of the Government and the PS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u249	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u250	Finally, Madam President, it left only one question, because it was not answered. Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs said that it was nothing with the government and, from the PS, I saw no opening up. Therefore, the conclusion I draw is that there is no openness to reach consensus that will improve the serious errors that this proposal has. That is what I conclude. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u251	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group also spoke for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carlos Pereira, it is indisputable the Socialist Party's agreement with the Liberal Initiative on how public investment is promoted. [[Rice from PS and PSD Members.]] It's indistinct and it's too bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u253	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u254	...because what the country needed was a real policy of research and development, in which the state would not cease to have a central role. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State a question which will close this debate. The Government has taken this initiative with the aim of avoiding the double benefit of this system of tax incentives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u255	He's staying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u256	I wonder why the government has, at the same time, extended the deadline for reporting expenditure under SIFIDE from 8 to 12 years. Why? If the objective was to end abuse, why does it extend from 8 to 12 years the deadline for reporting expenditure under SIFIDE? The question now remains for the final intervention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u257	We shall turn to the final intervention, which will close this debate. To this end, Mr. Secretary of State for Digitalization and Administrative Modernization, Mário Campolargo has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u258	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The bill we are presenting is very important, from our point of view, in order to continue to build and increase the ecosystem — yes, the ecosystem — of entrepreneurship we already have in Portugal. It is not by chance that our startups represent 1,1 % of the country's GDP. It's not by any chance that we have seven unicorns. [[PSD and IL rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u259	That was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u260	It's paradise!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u261	It is not by chance that the number of unicorns in Portugal, by the number of inhabitants, is more than triple than in France or Germany. It's not by any chance that we're in 13. the place, above the European average, in the number of startupsper capital. It is not by chance that more than 27 000 jobs were created in startups and that we are the 12. the country in the top 100 of the emerging ecosystems. It is also not by chance that Europe Startup Nations Alliance — I must mention once again, because it is the name of this initiative — it is based in Portugal. In other words, Europe recognises Portugal as a digital country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this context that this bill is linked, forming an ecosystem of the future, that we all want it to be based on a simpler, digital and less bureaucratic process, with the strengthening of the system of tax incentives in research and business development. It is not the only one, we also have large investments, already mentioned here, within the framework of the RPP. I also remember that this bill represents the mobilisation and cooperation of the State with the business fabric. It is proof that we can and should continue to work for a stronger economy capable of promoting national SMEs, promoting new business models, promoting innovation and entrepreneurship, and promoting social cohesion through the creation of more and better jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Government is, of course, as always available to cooperate with this House in everything they believe is necessary on the issues raised in this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u262	I think you guys are. Members of the Government will therefore leave us on behalf of the Bureau. We will move on to point three of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August—Adopts the Statute of the National Health Service [ Parliamentary Assessments No 6 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 3 / XV / 1. a ( CH) ]. To begin the debate, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u263	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We hardly find a sector where the current crisis of government affects the daily life of Portuguese as well as health. If these difficulties were already evident before 2020, the pandemic all aggravated, exposing, in a brutal manner, the structural weaknesses of the National Health Service, today with almost 1, 5 million Portuguese without a family doctor, with the emergency services of the most relevant hospitals of the SNS with long hours of waiting and trouble of response, with months—if not even years! — waiting for a simple consultation of specialty, surgery or even for a supplementary diagnostic examination. While the Portuguese live this calvary, we see, in fact, that they continue to fail to respect health professionals, who devalue health professionals — those who called them heroes. Even minutes ago, a strike warning from the National Medical Federation was announced, because they came to the conclusion, visible to all, that the negotiations were not taking anywhere. [[PSD applause.]] What we are watching is the exit of thousands of highly qualified professionals from the SNS and the country and, of doctors and nurses who still resist and who continue in the National Health Service, thousands of these have already signed excuses for responsibility. Signing an excuse for responsibility is an act that reveals the despair of those who want to treat patients, but who do not have the conditions to do so with desirable safety and quality. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS problems are not solved with love vows. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u264	Saving the SNS requires vision, mission clarity and urgent implementation of the needed reforms, which are continuously postponed. In consistency, the PPD / PSD has argued since the first hour that the government should have heard the opposition parties and the Portuguese society before moving forward with the SNS Statute. It would have been an act of democratic humility and, above all, an act of political intelligence, which could unite all health actors around a common cause, but that is not what the government wanted. They understand the rulers who can do everything and who need no one else, and the results are in sight. [[PSD applause.]] Objectively, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party is harming the health of Portuguese people. For all this, the PSD has requested the parliamentary review of the SNS Statute diploma, precisely to appeal to the Socialist Party and to this absolute majority, which is said to be dialogant, to allow us to have a deep debate on health in Portugal. Parliamentary sitting parties can and should work within committee to agree on the main long-term reforms that health needs so much—and it needs too long. We are the greatest party in the opposition and, as such, we are here once again to present an alternative path to health in Portugal. It is possible to reverse the degradation of the SNS. The first change is to ensure access to a family doctor to all Portuguese. The PSD presents today proposals for amendments to the SNS Statute that respond to this challenge immediately, due to direct contractualization, but also in the long term, through the reform of primary care. It is unacceptable that there are waiting lists that continue to violate all clinically acceptable deadlines. Therefore, the PSD presents proposals that ensure access to the necessary health care in good time for all patients in our country. The lack of clarity, which Mr. President of the Republic referred to at the time of the enactment of the SNS Statute, persists. Today, Queen, a huge confusion that is felt every day, by everyone, from managers, suppliers, health professionals and patients. We need a more efficient SNS, with a well-defined chain of command, able to adapt and respond agilely to the transformations that have been experienced in recent years in the health system and society. Therefore, the PSD proposes that it end once and for all with regional health administrations (ARS). They are bureaucratic giants who no longer perform the function for which they were created. We also propose that local health units (ULS) become the territorial unit of the SNS throughout the country, with the necessary integration and autonomy of clinical management, and with the multi-annual investment capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u265	That already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u266	Moreover, with a focus on quality, the PSD proposes that the funding of the SNS and its professionals be made according to health outcomes. It is time in the SNS to value professionals and institutions according to the health results that generate for the citizen. As is the case today in the USF (family health units) model B, we propose that all SNS professionals be encouraged and valued for achieving previously contractual results, which translate into improving Portuguese health. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We also propose that indicators on health gains be measured strictly and publicly, so that everyone can read them, in real time, be the decision makers, be the citizens. What is not measured does not exist, or at least does not permit political intervention. [[PSD applause.]] With this paradigm change that we propose, we will be able to improve the health of Portuguese, reduce the burden of disease and motivate professionals to return to the SNS. For all this it is essential to have efficient management, which also includes financial management. Today, it is not clear who manages SNS funding. An executive direction, without the necessary competence of financial management, cannot do what is necessary. It will be just another layer of bureaucracy paid with the taxes of all of us. If everything remains as it is, the Executive Director of the SNS ventures to be like the king of England — with immense prestige, but very little power. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to be more ambitious for our health, there is courage to change. With this debate, we will see who accepts that it is necessary to change and who thinks that it is all right. Whatever the outcome of the debate, the PSD will continue to fight for the reform of the SNS, for the health of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u267	Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to speak first of all to Minister Ana Catarina Mendes, who is with us today in this Parliament, and who has been kind enough to accept our invitation, educated and democratic, to go to our National Convention. [[Protests by PCP MP João Dias and BE MP Mariana Mortágua.]] However, the Minister, at the end of our National Convention, spoke in hate speech, and it was only out of her mouth, the Minister, who heard the word 'hate' at that convention. In fact, in our party, we have a talk of love: love of God, love of country, love of family and love of work. [[PS laughter and protests.]] Yes, Mrs. Minister, it's for the sake that our parliamentary bench fights for good, for truth and for life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, without love nothing is done, but where love is born gestures. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] For this reason, the Arrival presented this parliamentary assessment, because it loves the Portuguese Nation and loves the Portuguese, unlike this government, which seems to even hate the Portuguese, since it calls them access to health care at the most important times: at birth and at death. On June 10, 2022, a baby died in the Queen's Caldas, in an emergency caesarean, held in a hospital that had the emergency obstetrics closed, but whose health professionals were armed by a mother at work of dystocic labor. The Minister of Health announced an investigation, but it has been half a year and no one knows the conclusions. On July 28, a pregnant woman traveled 100 km from Vila de Rei, to reach Santarém Hospital, and lost her baby. This is because the maternity ward at the Abrantes Hospital was closed. On August 29, a pregnant woman died in Lisbon, the capital of the country, when she was transferred to a hospital for lack of a job. On November 17, another pregnant woman and her 6-month-old baby died in the Queen's Caldas : she was a pregnant woman who called the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ), who waited for INEM, who left her house in Torres Vedras, where the emergency obstetric service was already closed, did more than 50 km and ended up dying. Of all the investigations announced by Minister Marta Temido and Minister Manuel Pizarro here today, no one has ever heard of any conclusion. This is the reality, Minister, that is the Portuguese reality and that is why this Parliament wanted to hear the Executive Director of the SNS. This Parliament has also led the committees of inquiry, proposed by the Czech Republic, on the excess of mortality. DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) says that it is investigating the increase in maternal mortality, which is the highest in the last 38 years, but no one knows their conclusions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was in this context that the SNS Statute was approved, only three years after the enactment of the Health Bases Act. In our view, the SNS Statute has unfortunately been another fraud and another missed opportunity. It is a fraud because it seeks to convey the idea that it is with this Statute that the problems of the SNS will be solved when, in fact, they do not go. It is a missed opportunity because it does not density a strategy or adopt a model that could change the current SNS paradigm, increasingly obsolete. The new SNS Statute is clearly insufficient in the densification of relations between the SNS and the private and social sectors in the field of health, and it is nothing ambitious in the consecration of new models of operation, which could allow a paradigm change in public management, in order to increase the efficiency and productivity of health services. Mr President of the Republic has also raised several important doubts, which we are accompanying. Mr. Bastonário da Ordem dos Médicos, Miguel Guimarães, who is currently in this House, said that the SNS Executive Directorate was a very centralizing body that overlaps with ERS (Regulatory Health Entity ). Dr. Xavier Barreto is also of the same opinion. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we call for this parliamentary assessment to include our proposals in this new SNS Statute. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u269	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating Mr Health Minister, telling him that health is not a matter of quick thinking. If, on the one hand, this SNS Statute brings progress that is positive, on the other hand, it has aspects that leave out, such as the chronic sub-financing of the SNS or a financing of the SNS based on health gains, which bets on prevention. Prevention should be, here, but not only a basic aspect, but we have seen that it is forgotten. The regulation of the career of health assistant technician and measures to fix doctors and nurses in the SNS are not dealt with in the SNS Statute and have already been subject to concrete NAP proposals, rejected by the majority of parliament of the PS, but also, say, on the right in this Assembly of the Republic. We need to go further. We agree with some aspects, such as the integration of INSA (National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ) and INEM within the framework of the Statute and with greater independence of ACES (groups of health centres). However, it does not integrate the CAPIC (Psychological Support and Crisis Intervention Centre) which, in terms of mental health, would be fundamental. The NAP presented a proposal for an amendment, the towing of the proposed parliamentary assessment brought by the PSD, because including, for example, the integration of CAPIC would imply giving greater dignity to mental health care. It is also necessary to ensure the support of citizens, particularly deaf people, through the assistance of Portuguese Gestive Services, or also measures that integrate concern and respect for LGBTI people ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenders and intersex).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u271	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u272	The proposal we are bringing forward also includes the environmental dimension, with a view to filling these dimensions and complementing the Statute here today under discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u273	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, that the situation of the National Health Service is very complicated, I know - it has been years. It was, in fact, why the Left Block, thinking that we really wanted the National Health Service to work — perhaps our naivety! — committed for years to negotiate another way of responding to health and even changed the Health Bases Act. What the Government has done was simply delaying what the Health Bases Law process was able to do and then putting it in the drawer in two ways: one, not giving the budget to do anything the Health Bases Law provides; another, not regulating it. And when it comes to the SNS Statute, it goes even further and distaste, with the SNS Statute, what was written in the Health Bases Act. The Left Block feels, finally, disappointed by this process, but I say more: there are many socialists who believe in the National Health Service and who can only feel deceived by this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u276	But more than political history, then we will come up with concrete proposals. There are younger generations holding the National Health Service back, with no career prospects. And when you look at this Statute, nothing is given to them. It is a matter of full dedication, which is something no one can define until now. The Left Block proposes simple measures: that all workers and workers of the National Health Service be entitled to a career, a career that is possible to exercise exclusively — something compulsory for those in a position of chief, optional for those not in a position of chief, but given this possibility. This existed until 2009, had good results, but they wanted to cut structural expenditure by cutting the wages of SNS professionals and today spend millions on jobs to have worse organization of the National Health Service. Finally, we want to end this thing that humiliates the workers of the SNS, which is to have people working side by side with different conditions and make contracts in public functions and individual employment contracts have the same conditions. But we go from careers to organization, because those who work at the SNS and are dedicated to health don't like to feel enjoyed by an organization that doesn't make any sense. Let's start with the excess of nominations. There are appointments for everything in the SNS! There is no need for competitions and elections based on curricula and programmes, but this is how you can credibility with your peers and have services that work. And, of course, we have to talk about political accountability. To that end, it is good that there is no executive director of the SNS to make decisions that are political, but that the Minister does not assume, that Parliament cannot vote and the country does not. And finally, about health planning, what the Statute says is we can have private people in the SNS. We got 'em! Anyone who goes to the family doctor leaves there with a P1 to go to the complementary means of diagnosis or physical therapy in private. Anyone who goes to an emergency is cared for by a job that works for a private company. Who has a surgical check and is operated, sometimes even within the SNS, is already operated by a private company. The lack of investment in the SNS and the excessive contractualization with the private doesn't allow health planning, and that's why we have patients in the Algarve going to Seville and that's why we have pregnant girls walking from side to side without knowing where they might have the answer they need. Health planning means ensuring that the National Health Service is a public response and the private is, as it should be, a subsidiary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u277	What about immunity? The immunity of a group, in this case, of a parliamentary group! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u278	Mr Miguel Rodrigues of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2019, 40 years after the creation of the SNS, a new Health Base Act was adopted, which is clear in its conception, on the indisputably public basis of the SNS, on the absolutely universal scope of users and on career assignments, of the many thousands of nurses, doctors and so many others that every day give of themselves so much for the health of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Statute we discussed today emerges as an instrument of affirmation of these choices, greater autonomy of management of the ACEs, hospitals and the ULS. And we are very pleased that, for once in our lives, the PSD agrees with us. More organization for better functioning services, such as the SNS Executive Directorate, among many other reforms. This Executive Directorate assumes the operational coordination of health units, ensuring their network functioning. However, some parties in this House seem to fear a confusion between the Executive Directorate and other bodies — the same ones that required answers when there was disarticulation, the same ones that do not have answers to their own questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The SNS Executive Directorate distinguishes itself from the Ministry of Health, who is responsible for the conduct of health policy, but not the operational coordination of their responses. It differs from ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), whose mission is the planning and financial management of human resources and facilities. And I find it relatively surprising that a party, the largest party in the opposition, who allegedly perceives so much of business and economy does not understand that it is even good practice in any company to separate operational management from financial management. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is distinguished from regional health associations, whose function is that of resource planning, because health is not only the SNS, it is not only the provision of health care, it is also literature, risk information and much more. It is interesting that one of the parties who today called for the appreciation of the diploma accuses this reform of centralism, ignoring all this. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that the former SNS Statute was approved even before I was born, but in my short life, I have no memory of any structure with the national weight that has the Executive Directorate of the SNS to be installed outside the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. It may be lack of understanding of this Matosinhense that speaks to you, but clearly we have very different views on what is the problem of centralism in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another assessment refers to the change in the contractualization models by SNS objectives and presents a new solution, even if it is not, since it corresponds strictly to the system of recovery of the care activity that we had after covid-19. This bench is and will always be available for reforms that bring efficiency. It separates us, perhaps, its meaning and worries us more what the PSD wrote than what the PSD said. Parliamentary appreciation makes at least one of the objectives clear, and I quote: "Inadequate the diploma in the densification of relations between the SNS and the private and social sectors and, in view of this, we do not understand what is intended: the improvement of the efficiency of the SNS or the beautification of some accounts reports of private health shareholders. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are and will always be available to discuss efficiency, but we will never exchange the public option we have for a private resource that is not exceptional and supplementary, as the Health Bases Act says. This portrait doesn't mean everything's okay. If we have already seen improvements in predictability and communication to users with the Executive Directorate, we do not fail to recognize the investment that is still missing. If for the first time we have had more opportunities for access to medical expertise for inmates of the common year than for candidates, we know that in the medium term this reform will bring its fruits. If we did a fair reform with the career time of nurses, we know that the appreciation of careers does not run out there, nor does it run out on them. Perhaps, we will be heirs, perhaps less worthy, of the vision that António Arnaut had for the SNS: a universal service, which did not ask for the number of the apolicies, nor the statement of income at the hospital entrance. And it is also true that we sometimes fail with the SNS, especially nurses, doctors and so many professionals who magnify it. But for this majority, one thing that is absolutely clear is that the National Health Service has never failed Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this bench, this Statute, these professionals and this public service, universal and trendily free, will never give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u280	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative has been saying that the SNS urgently needs a profound reform, which Portugal needs a national health system where the public, private and social sectors live on an equal footing and where people can choose where and by whom they want to be treated. None of this is apparent from this new SNS Statute, which only vaguely provides for the possibility of private and social sectors to integrate the SNS. In the Liberal Initiative we defend a national health system where this statistic management does not predominate, which has only generated inefficiencies, constraints, mismanagement of resources, captivitys and where there is no autonomy of managers. The new SNS Statute does not change this scenario. We want a paradigm shift in which we spend a health focused on the provider and the state, to a health focused on the best results on health and freedom of choice of people. And the new SNS Statute does not meet the needs of the sector or people. It does not solve the fundamental problems, it is not reformist and it does not go beyond the illusion of this government. It does not pass from a makeup operation that does no more than try to disguise the real problems in access to health in Portugal. But it does not, of course, solve the structural problems of the SNS which the Prime Minister himself has already admitted to exist. In addition, it is not strategic, creates more bureaucracy, overlaps competences, gives false autonomy to health units, does not present a reflection on the deficit model we have in the SNS, does not present solutions for the lack of SNS attractiveness in the collection and retention of health professionals and, more seriously, does not present solutions for the successive exclusion of the most disadvantaged in access to health, those who have no alternative when needed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Liberal Initiative is quite clear: we want more ambition in health! The current model of our health system is not what the Liberal Initiative defends for Portugal, because it does not guarantee real access to health care for all citizens. And that is why we are committed to presenting soon a new Health Bases Act and, in our proposal, in the model of universal health access system that we defend, this SNS Statute does not fit! With a sense of responsibility, we will not now call for the cessation of the validity of this decree, nor for the reprisal of the diplomas which the same has revoked and with which we do not agree. Nor will we put forward amendments, because they would inevitably be vulvacious, remedies, and would not reformulate the entire health system, which is precisely what the Liberal Initiative is defending. In conclusion, we regret that these parliamentary assessments have not been discussed before, particularly before the SNS Executive Directorate is in office, because if so, as the Liberal Initiative has tried, we could have prevented some of these measures from being in progress. Thus, and reiterating our sense of responsibility, we will not run the risk of making even worse what is bad now. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u282	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u283	Madam President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ministers: This SNS Statute has included everything that is negative and that we, PCP, will highlight. In fact, the PCP has already introduced a bill to correct what the PCP believes should be corrected in this document which, if, on the one hand, has everything that is negative, on the other hand, it has also been omitted or excluded what should be included to recover the National Health Service. We are before a SNS Statute that does not solve the main problems of the National Health Service. Above all, we understand that this Statute was a step back in relation to what had been achieved through the approval of the Health Bases Act, in which the PCP had a decisive intervention, making it possible to gain conditions so that the National Health Service could, in fact, be valued. in this sense, for the PCP, this Statute represents a loss of opportunity, particularly in what has to do with the door that opens, which is shocked to continue to deliver the health care provided in the National Health Service to the private, to the economic groups of the disease. The National Health Service should value its professionals, but what this Statute does is to maintain and perpetuate the rule of the individual contract of work and devalue the careers of professionals and a link to the Public Administration, which would be so important. And they still come with the cherry on the top of the cake, which is the full dedication. Mr Minister, I would like you to explain to us how full dedication is provided for in Article 16. the, with the increase of time overload and overlap with the private. How does the safety and quality of care guarantee increase the burden on professionals and, if it still allows them to accumulate in private? But what exclusive dedication would be that with this whole picture where health professionals, rather than being valued by their exclusive dedication to the National Health Service, receive an overload of hours and more work? Then, Mr Minister, on the autonomy of health units, contrary to what Mr. Miguel Rodrigues here said, there was a loss of autonomy. In fact, in order to ensure the contractualization of the SNS Executive Directorate with the private, there is such a leaked door, because it has total autonomy to contract with the private. in what is the autonomy of institutions and units, not there, there is the Ministry of Finance again. The Minister is sure he knows Article 67. the, where the activities and budgets plans, the program contracts of hospitals and the multi-year human resources plan of the SNS must have the binding opinion of this ministry and of those that protect the Public Administration. Now here is the autonomy that the SNS has: for the private, open door and wide hands, for the public, the control and the garrote of the finances. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u284	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u285	Madam President, Mrs Minister, Minister : The National Health Service is undoubtedly the monument of the best in democratic Portugal. It is certainly not the thousands of miles of motorways, however useful they are, nor certainly the stadiums of the Euro 2004. The hospitals, health centers and family health units are the greatest monument we have achieved in the last 50 years. As such, we have to take care of him. It is necessary to end the chronic subordination of the National Health Service. We must invest in new mental health, nutritionism and dental health valences and use the PRR resources in order to make reforms. Then, to be able to last, you have to end that subordination. With regard to the organization, if the government considers it to be through an executive director, we will see, because « the evidence of the pudding is eating it», as someone said that until recently was in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u286	You don't have anything else to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u287	So, we'll see if it results in empirical reality or not. What we cannot want to do is take up the National Health Service as we do, and consider that changing it by another model will give us the health services of the Netherlands or Germany, because it can also give those of Bulgaria and Romania, which work with the same. And I, model model, prefer the one that gave us the highest vaccination rates in Europe and what has protected us over these decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u288	For an intervention, Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Mr SNS has never failed the Portuguese. I would like to know what you can tell us about 1 million and 500 thousand Portuguese who do not have a family doctor or about babies who die in emergencies, as I said in the gallery. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Babies and pregnant women dying in emergency services, yes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. What can you also say about the waiting lists for specialist consultations, which are several months in our hospitals? Or about the waiting lists of 600, 700, 800 and 1000 days for surgery? Don't you think this is a SNS failure, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u291	The doctor's own batonary said it was a black year for health and the worst was yet to come. Therefore, Mr. Member, the SNS fails the Portuguese, and not only those who use the SNS, but also those who work in the SNS. That's why doctors were on strike, nurses are on strike, pharmacists are on strike and technicians are on strike. All of them together sign thousands of liability excuses every year because the SNS fails and they do not want to have that responsibility. Do you understand, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u292	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u293	Mr Bastonário of the Order of Doctors, who was here this morning, said that the SNS Executive Directorate is a centralizing body and goes against everything the government has advocated in the field of decentralization. In the Ministry of Health, we have the protection of ARS, ACSS, DGS and Executive Directorate. Minister, this is all a quadrupling of the SNS hierarchy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u294	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u295	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is a redundant hierarchy and needs to be simplified. I would like to hear Mr. Minister on this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u296	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro, has the floor to whom I comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The confirmation that this is a reform agenda in a service with evidence is demonstrated by the fact that the PSD Parliamentary Group, to whom I thank, has sparked this debate. It is because there is even a reform agenda, because if there was no reform agenda, there would be no reason for this debate to take place. If nothing had happened and if no change had happened, this debate would surely not be taking place. I think this debate is useful. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] We are really discussing a service with evidence given, a service that the Portuguese realize has been essential for us to resist the pandemic — an absolutely unexpected event in Portugal and around the world — in which the Portuguese have always been able to rely on the most difficult moments of it. It was the National Health Service that every day, every hour, he was able to respond to the needs of the Portuguese and give them security.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u298	What about excess mortality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u299	I want to tell you that we already have the data and, in 2022, we witnessed a remarkable recovery of the care activity. It is the largest care activity in its history, even compared with the one that was the largest number previously achieved, in 2019. In hospitals, the record of medical consultations was struck: 12 million and 770,000 consultations, 3 % more than in 2021, plus 770,000 consultations in one year than in 2015. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] 758 313 surgeries were performed, a new record after the previous record, which had been last year, with 709,000. It was an increase of 7 %. Since 2015, the number of surgeries performed annually in the SNS increased by 16 %, which is equivalent to two months of activity. It was as if we had added two months to one year. at primary health care level, the number of presence consultations increased 19%, between 2021 and 2022, to 17 million and 271,000 consultations. In total, in primary health care, 34, 5 million medical consultations were conducted, plus 3 million more than in 2019 and 4 million more than in 2015. In fact, we realize that, especially on the right side of this House, they are very uncomfortable with the success of the National Health Service. We interpret this: it is because we are on the right path to defend an essential public service for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u300	Uh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u301	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u302	Professionals are, in fact, a distinguishing and essential element of the National Health Service, so we have given them absolute priority. We negotiated with nurses the counting and replacement of points that enabled the improvement of the remuneration of more than 16 000 nurses and continue to be deeply engaged in this dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We have negotiations with doctors and other professionals and it is also in these negotiations that the subject of full dedication will be dealt with, because that is how it must be done. As a topic of trade union negotiation, it is at the table of that negotiation that the topic can and should be dealt with. About the attractiveness of the SNS : started on 2 January the formation of the largest number of doctors ever — 1994 in general training and 1883 in specialized training. As for the autonomy of the institutions: under Decree-Law No. 50 -A / 2022, 558 doctors have been hired in five months to help the institutions of the SNS, picking up doctors who were in service and newly-specialists. Today they've opened by 23 and they'll open by 1. the semester, 28 new family health units of model B. It's the largest number since 2009 and I'm comparing 1. this year's semester with all the whole years that preceded us. This was even news item. The competition for the recruitment of doctors specialists in general and family medicine had 212 candidates for 196 vacancies. I guarantee there will be vacancies for all those who are interested, but what they cannot say is there is no attractiveness of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] In the competition that you closed these days for public health doctors, we were able to fill out, even in very difficult geographical areas, 75 % of vacancies. We placed doctors in 18 of the 24 places open to competition in a traditionally very difficult specialty, such as public health. There is a link between what the Executive Directorate does which, as I said, has an obligation to ensure the operational direction and coordination of the different networks of the SNS — and which is already in full activity despite its installation process also being underway — and the function of the Ministry of Health which is defining the political strategy. It is a simple articulation of understanding, that professionals understand, that the country has understood and is already in full development. Yes, we are working on decentralization and proximity to the autonomy of the SNS institutions, which will gradually deepen in the coming months with the reconfiguration of the ARS. We will sign decentralization cars with an increasing number of municipalities and with the recognized presence of the Ministry of Health and its institutions, close to communities, authorities and professionals, and so on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u303	It's all done the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u304	At the conclusion of the debate, we are moving to the closing stage. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u305	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members, Mr Minister, Mr Miguel Rodrigues of the Socialist Party, no one has commented on the proposals of the Social Democratic Party and it is not worth it either because, apparently, it is all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u306	For what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u307	It's most of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u308	For the Socialist Party, it's all so good. [[PSD applause.]] You are right, Mr Minister, when he says it's a reform agenda. The question is that you can reform well or reform badly and the government is reforming badly on health. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is because Mr. Minister says that the SNS responded well to the pandemic, but the SNS is not an abstract entity. Those who responded were doctors, nurses, health technicians and administrative personnel, who were on the front line. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u309	SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u310	Since 2015, 13 000 nurses have been enrolled in the Order of Nurses and 15 000 have been released from the country. Only last year, 1488 doctors and 1782 nurses left the National Health Service. The data isn't ours, it's yours! It is an exodus of health professionals and that is why there are almost 1, 5 million Portuguese without a family doctor on which Mr. Minister of Health did not say a single word. If people relied so much on the SNS and their ability to respond, today we would not be checking the brutal increase in demand for private health insurance by the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Half of the Portuguese population use private insurance. In fact, the private have never won as much as during the management and leadership of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, the debate that is required is about the SNS Statute and, Mr. Miguel Rodrigues, even today, in the morning, the president of the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association said it is a mistake that operational management is separate from financial management. We should look at the model of Executive Directorate of the English National Health Service, in which the Portuguese National Health Service was inspired, in order to build a model of funding based on results. This is because we need to create incentives for professionals, to attract them back and to direct the work of the SNS to improve health results, to reduce the burden of the disease, to improve the well-being of the population, instead of having the population becoming more ill, in a vicious circle that this reform will objectively not break. This is what distinguishes us: you have an absolute majority...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u311	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u312	I will finish, Madam President. The Socialist Party has an absolute majority and has the opportunity to open this debate in committee. Do not ignore PSD proposals. We can reform health together, the PSD is available to fight for people, for the health of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u313	To close this debate, Mr. Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u314	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the PSD's health proposals are summed up by a word that begins with « p», and if it were Porto and I even liked it, but it is privatising. The idea for everything is to privatize.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u315	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u316	Privatize, privatize, privatize, and everything will be solved by miracle! [[PSD Member Protests Ricardo Baptista Leite.]] Mr President, just because you have talked about insurance, I will reply to you with a fact that Professor Pita Barros has released very recently. You are always in such turmoil that there are no knowledge of how many millions of Portuguese people with health insurance. Do you know what part health insurance pays in the annual financing of health in Portugal? I think you know: 4, 5 % is the part that insurance pays. Therefore, truly, the guarantee of Portuguese health and access to health is even the National Public Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, when the Executive Directorate presented, and the Government supported, the Maternity Organization Plan, which has worked so well in recent months and that during the two most difficult weekends of the year — Christmas and New Year — allowed 849 babies to be born safely in Portugal, with total tranquility and predictability, there were several commentators who suggested that perhaps rather than running maternity, they should use the private sector. Do you know what the problem is, sir? It is that in places where we had transitional difficulties, such as in Guarda, in Abrantes, in Santarém,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u317	Portimão, Faro...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u318	... in Caldas da Rainha, in Vila Franca de Xira, in Barreiro, in Setúbal, in Beja or in Portimão, there is no private there to do that service, Mr. Who's there is the National Health Service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, at the end of the day, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, is a certain willingness of the PSD to return to the past. It is a beautiful time for, now that another anniversary of the National Health Service is approaching, to remember who were the parties in this Chamber who voted in favour of the National Health Service and who were the parties who today, as in 1979, are still against the public health service. We are here to defend it in the name of Portuguese health, because that is what really counts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u319	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our agenda, but the session is not over yet. I congratulate the Minister and the Minister and I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha for her usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u320	Mr President, it is to be announced that four amendments to the Left Block, the Arrival, the NAP and the PSD respectively have been tabled for the parliamentary assessments discussed today. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u321	Let's see, now, the majority dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-01.u322	I remember that tomorrow, Thursday, our plenary meeting starts at 3 p.m. and that, on the agenda, there is only one point, political statements, which will certainly be very long. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 12 minutes.]]
