ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. All parliamentary groups and the government are represented, so we can start our work. I declare open the sitting. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Today we don't have a file, so we're going straight into the agenda. The first point consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the scheme of a set of tax benefits. To present the bill, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Nuno Félix has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 1989, when the Tax Benefit Statute was approved, it was said that one of the main obstacles to the Portuguese tax system was the multiplicity of tax benefits, its complexity and the need for its simplification. After three decades, and despite the good progress and systematization that that instrument has brought us to date, there is still a way to go. We need to continue this work to review and systematize tax benefits, contributing to a clearer, simpler and easier-to-implementation tax system. in this context, a Working Group for the Tax Benefit Study, which presented its report in 2019. Since then, we have been working with the European Commission and the IMF (International Monetary Fund) in drawing up and creating a technical unit for assessing tax benefits. Since then, as a starting point, the weighting of a set of specific benefits, many of which are periodically renewed, this bill extends a set of tax benefits, for which it has been concluded that they still play a significant role in pursuing public policies, such as, for example, the tax benefit to copyright or the regimes of the scientific and cultural patronage. But, on the other hand, this proposed law now under discussion brings the non-renewal of a set of tax benefits, which we can now consider unnecessary, in view of the initial objectives in terms of public policy, or even counter-productive, vis-à-vis other objectives, particularly in environmental matters. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me emphasise this last aspect. in the context of combating climate change, in which the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme takes a special focus on discouraging polluting activities and promoting environmental sustainability, it is of the greatest importance that we align fiscal incentives, fiscal benefits, in this national priority, in terms of environmental sustainability of our economy. A green taxation policy is continuing, which has also been recognised as an example at European level: aligning the tax system with environmental sustainability, maintaining commitment to clarification and simplification in tax matters. These are the two main aspects, the two principles of action of this proposal which we bring here today to the Assembly of the Republic, and which we put to the consideration of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u3	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Any initiative aimed at tax benefits is always a relevant initiative for us, until, in recent years, Portuguese have been whipped with successive records of tax burden. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u5	It should then be noted that when we talk about tax benefits we are talking about a tax expenditure that in 2021 amounted to more than EUR 13 billion, equivalent to 6 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). It is also worth noting that we are talking about the existence of more than 500 tax benefits, spread by more than 60 legal diplomas. We are talking about more than 120 tax benefits with no extrafiscal objectives assigned and without knowing the desired impacts with their creation. In addition, the Court of Auditors has long been alerting the lack of information on the expenditure of a significant part of the existing tax benefits. And for years we have been talking about the need to move forward with an assessment of the degree of implementation of each of the tax benefits, to realize whether or not they are meeting the objectives that they have presided over their allocation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the tax benefits are a very important instrument of public policy, within the framework of the pursuit of economic, social, cultural, scientific and other purposes, but they are also a materially heavy instrument and should therefore be used with all rigor and transparency. In May 2019, the report submitted by the Working Group on Tax Benefits, which Mr. Secretary of State quoted, suggested the creation of a technical unit, which, in addition to the evaluation of existing tax benefits, should simultaneously accompany the creation of new tax benefits, ensuring that the defined indicators could be calculated. The government, as usual, hurriedly said: "Yes, we will move forward in this direction and we will move forward quickly. » It happens, almost four years later—that you know, Mr. Secretary of State, that you know! — the promised technical unit has not yet seen the light of the day, at least in the terms proposed by the identified study, i.e. professionalized unit, permanent and independent. But, Mr Secretary of State, curiously, this study observes in its first conclusion—it is not in the second or third conclusions, it is in the first conclusion—that the system is very complex and not transparent. Nor, Mr Secretary of State, is this proposal very unclear—to be kind—it is very intransparent. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State: the Government proposes the extension of tax benefits by having completed its demonstrated efficiency for public policies, but does not base this conclusion; the Government proposes the non-renewal of tax benefits by having concluded by its inadequacy or need for the objectives outlined at the time of its creation, but does not base its conclusion; the Government proposes the repeal of tax benefits by concluding that they do not deserve relevance in the current socio-economic context, but also does not base its conclusion. Therefore, the Government does not base its proposal, it does not submit any studies, documents or opinions that base its proposal, it does not refer to any consultations it has carried out on it and, Mr. Secretary of State, until it requests Parliament a legislative authorization to revoke tax benefits... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u6	... that have already expired, without telling us what they are and without this legislative authorization being accompanied — as is normal, as is desirable — by the minute of the diploma to be approved. Nothing, Mr. Secretary of State! [[PSD applause.]] Strictly nothing! Nothing! Mr Secretary of State, this is no way of legislating and we do not time for this way of legislating. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u7	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u8	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This subject is subject to Law No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) deals with this issue towards the Liberal Initiative, because we are not only insistent lawyers for tax relief, we are also for fiscal simplification. Therefore, starting with, cleaning up this forest of benefits that exist in Portuguese legislation is, for us, a pleasant theme. As has already been mentioned — in fact, many of Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira's words could be ours — the 2019 report of the said Working Party on Tax Benefits referred to the existence of 542 tax benefits, 127 of which, at that time, the working group said that no one knew very well for what they served and that they had associated social expenditure, as used or not VAT deductions (tax on value added) to calculate between 2 % and 6 % of GDP. For those who are at home and can understand better, they are, more or less, between two and six TAP (Portuguese Air Transport). Therefore, there seems to be matter, great matter and great margin, to make simplifications, which are not only in the number of benefits, are also in the number of diplomas in which the benefits are spread, more than 60, and to reverse what the working group already called « the apparent ease of successive creation of tax benefits ». In view of this, what the Government is doing with this Bill No 35 / XV / 1. What's the matter? It will revoke six and extend two tax benefits. And, as has already been said, without justification, either for revocations or for extensions. We don't know why they end up and others continue. Mr Secretary of State, let me tell you, this seems a little lazy, unless Article 10. the, where there is also that legislative assessment which does not, too, come into substance, is a'satisfying, housing' of, next year, with the legislative authorization, ending with tax benefits. But I believe that the largest government of all time, with the greatest expenditure on advisers of all time, would have the opportunity to tell us, then, what are these tax benefits that have already expired, which should not be particularly complicated. And since we are talking about this issue of simplification, I make a suggestion, and it is not to create another working group: in the same way that it is useful to look at tax benefits, to simplify them strongly, to see those who work and those who do not work, and to act accordingly, it may not be a bad time, too, to look at something that is particularly bizarre and very complicated the lives of taxpayers, which is the existence of extraordinary and temporary taxes, in which timers turn into finals and extraordinary ones turn into ordinary and rather vulgar, even. So here is the suggestion for the next government bill: much more reduction of tax benefits and much more abolition of extraordinary and temporary taxes. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u9	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government aims to make a series of amendments to the ISV ( vehicle tax ), VAT, IRC ( corporate income tax ), to the Tax Benefit Statute, to Law No 21 / 2021, among others. The amendments in question are not significant and we reserve the technical criticisms to be assessed in the field of expertise. However, we must not fail to note the amendment that the Government is proposing to the ISV Code by aggravating that tax for motor vehicles and also the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, in particular the amendment to Article 93. the, where they are subject to the normal rate of tax on oil and energy products ( ISP ) the heating gas oil. And it is on this subject that our greatest criticisms arise. According to the 2020 data of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics, IP ), 4, 1 % of the energy consumed inside the house is heating gas oil, representing an average annual expenditure of more than 1000 € in each housing. Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, the price of the heating gas has risen by more than 35 %. The increase in the tax on gas oil, as recommended in this proposal for a law, will represent a strong impact on the budget of families who have installed gas oil consumer equipment for water heating and air conditioning of their homes. at a time when the country is still under strong inflationary pressure, with the families to be suffocated with the increase in the price of products and interest rates of credit to housing, as is that a government that refuses to play unjustified benefits, such as the exemption of IMI (municipal property tax) for political parties, or the exemption of more value in cryptomoeds held more than two months ago, now intends to exacerbate a tax on heating gas oil,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...a fuel so necessary for thousands of families to ensure the comfort of their homes? The arrival is totally against the escalation of the tax on heating diesel and will therefore vote against this bill submitted by the Government. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that we continue to discuss details, when what we should be discussing was how to make the tax regime more friendly for families and businesses, how to reduce the delay in the functioning of tax courts and how to reduce the significant complexity of bureaucracy in fulfilling tax obligations. Based on data from the Tax Foundation, Portugal is located at the end of the table, only in front of France and Italy, in the tax competitiveness index of 2022, having fallen two positions in front of 2021 and being below the average of the European Union and the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). Portugal continues to lose ground and the Portuguese are becoming increasingly poor. Even last week, the huge loss of Portuguese income in 2022 was made clear, despite the propaganda on the greatest economic growth since 1987. The high tax on companies, combined with the small limit on the amount of tax losses that companies may cause in future profits, and the different VAT rates have been strong obstacles to attracting investment. But what has really crushed the country has been the weight of taxes in wages and the aggressive progressive rates of IRS (tax on income of natural persons ). The percentage of taxes and social contributions paid on labour costs is 41, 8 %, which is highly penalizing for both workers and employers. It was about these matters that the Government should take up, implementing structural reforms to increase productivity and raise wages, which was never seen in the policies of socialist governance. Furthermore, the PS has always chosen to adopt measures to encourage state dependence, preferring to pay subsidies to promote work and investment. It is not surprising, therefore, that the European Commission's forecasts are pessimistic about our country, pointing out that this year the Portuguese economy will grow only 1 % in response to an inflation of 5, 4 %. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u11	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The Government has taken the practice of presenting amendments to the tax benefits outside the State budget. If it is within the framework of the Budget that tax matters can be seen as a whole, and the Government and the PS are usual users of this argument, our criticism even goes to the content of the amendments that are proposed here. Has the Government come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic to end the tax benefits associated with the financial sector? Have the government come to propose the end of the biggest tax benefit in IRS and the most unfair in relation to Portuguese pensioners, which is the tax privilege regime of non-standard residents? Has the Government come to propose the end of all the loopholes that allow large economic groups to escape the payment of taxes, in particular on the basis of IRC? Don't! So what does the government want with this initiative? It wants to increase strongly the Caravan Vehicle Tax, ending with the discount that was justified by the fact that part of the value of these cars is not exactly of the cars itself, but of the equipment that are associated with its use. It is really seen that the great problem of the Portuguese tax system is a 30% discount on motorhomes. [[Laughter of Members of the CFP.]] It seems that this government has something against motor vehicles. After the decree-law that tried to ban, by definition, overnight in almost all the national territory, now comes with this new fiscal escalation in ISV, which is really the big problem of the Portuguese tax system. They end with the exemption of ISP in oil products used in shipbuilding and aeronautical construction, when it seems to us that the country needed to increase production in these areas. While the countries of central and northern Europe strongly subsidize their industry, the Portuguese Government seems to want to end this form of support for this productive sector. And they also increase VAT and ISP on heating diesel and colored and marked oil, i.e., that which is also used in agriculture and domestic heating. Once again: is that, in fact, the great problem that the government identifies in the tax benefits that exist in our tax system? The question remains again. But if these measures deserve criticism, Article 10 is even more critical to us. the, in which the Government requests the Assembly of the Republic a blank check to revoke other tax benefits. However, if the Government, which still has an absolute majority, wants to revoke tax benefits—and many of them, as I mentioned at the outset, really needed to be revoked—that brings to the House of the Republic proposals in particular, which will be analysed and properly voted. Since there are some provisions that do not offer us problems between the various articles published in this Government proposal, we will not follow this blank check, nor the majority of the proposed amendments, which go next to those who are the real privileges of the Portuguese tax system. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u13	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Paula Bernardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative presented by the Government has promoted changes to tax benefits which, as many of them, require regular renewal benefits, require action. I begin with a methodological note, stressing that the Government opts, and well, by presenting these amendments in a proposal for an autonomous law, in reverse, as has already happened in the past, to include in a broader law, such as the State Budget. This option comes from the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to give greater transparency and clarity to the amendments in question, which is very much requested by the parliamentary groups that have already spoken. It also brings greater clarity and transparency to the debate around them and should therefore be emphasized by us as a good practice. The proposed law calls for a global reflection, certainly a reflection that does not forget that tax benefits are powerful instruments of public policy, which requires its elimination, such as its creation, modification and maintenance, to accompany those who are economic and social developments and that are increasingly led by transparent rules and of global effectiveness, avoiding overlaps or dispropositions. It is based on a previous assessment that takes place, an assessment that takes into account whether these benefits continue to make sense in the light of the current framework and whether the existing benefits are still compatible with or not the priorities and challenges assumed by the Government. It is true that the multiplication and perpetuation of benefits, some even competitors among themselves, have ended up generating a complex system, sometimes unclear and not always compatible with the nuclear values of any tax building — such as clarity, transparency, equity and justice — which calls into question the efficiency of the instruments themselves, not only in tax terms, but also, above all, in terms of their economic, social and environmental efficiency, which is the purpose for which they exist. We understand that it is precisely in this framework that the proposal emerges in appreciation, inserted in a logic of necessary review and updating these benefits. As the Secretary of State says, it is a proposal that promotes better alignment of existing regimes with the new and urgent requirements in matters such as social protection or cooperation policy — policies and challenges that we all know — and which puts an end to inadequate tax benefits. It is a proposal that extends a wide range of benefits, clarifying them, adapting them to the new context or simplifying their application, whenever it has been understood as relevant. But here it should be pointed out that this bill is just one more step on a path that the socialist governments have been tracking since 2015, with the aim of transforming the tax system into a more fair, clearer system that effectively contributes to economic development and brings people and citizens closer together. This vision has obviously not passed along with the tax benefit scheme, and here too has been a way forward: a review which, as the Secretary of State has also mentioned, has been reinforced with the creation in 2018 of a Working Group on Tax Benefits, which has withdrawn a set of conclusions and recommendations, some which are already under way, and which have contributed, in particular, to policy options that have been taken by the government in the meantime, in particular with regard to revisions of tax benefit schemes. A review, in order to be sound and credible, will have to continue to go through a more regular assessment of tax benefits, improved information provided — and in this point we also highlight the progress made in terms of the tax expenditure report — and an action always guided by more demanding rules for creating these benefits. Here too we welcome the information given by the Secretary of State, for the implementation of the commitment previously made, with the establishment of the said technical unit of tax policy. in this process, which we have to continue, there is a central concern to continue to ensure the adequacy of tax benefits to the major structural challenges we face: the promotion of investment, the improvement of family income, employment, the strengthening of social protection, until the dynamization of collective bargaining and the response to demography and housing. In short, this diploma is a result, I would say even one of the results, a continuous and systematic process of improving the tax framework, which has always been guided by principles of need for benefit creation, effective monitoring of its application and impact assessment. We are sure that the government will continue to deepen this process. on our part, it remains our commitment to continue to be an active party to the promotion of a fair and equitable tax system and, in this particular degree, to the improvement of benefit schemes that serve the purposes for which they were created. We are confident that the other political parties can also share this vision and contribute to this design. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u15	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: It has already been said that tax benefits are the biggest cause of tax complexity in Portugal. Instead of being an exception to the law — a rigorous, well-founded, transparent exception — they have just formed an incomprehensible network that can only be used by those with financial capacity to hire specialized consulting. The tax benefits then cease to fulfill their purpose, to become a privilege to which only the largest companies and the largest taxpayers can access. Who can, pays less; who needs, normally, pays more. This proposal for a law does not, structurally, alter this reality. It maintains tax benefits that are absolutely incomprehensible, such as tax benefits to non-standard residents. Why does a pensioner who claims to be an unusual resident pay 10 % of IRS and a pensioner who has worked here and receives his retirement pay a much higher rate? Why is it that someone who receives capital income in Portugal and declares himself an unusual resident is free to pay tax on such capital income, that is, on dividends of his shares and interest in financial products that he may have, but who lives here and has exactly the same financial products pays a fee on these financial products? Why does the Government believe that the rate of IRS has to be progressive, and well, for all people, because this guarantees fiscal justice, but to unusual residents is guaranteed this privilege of having a flat rate, such as the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u18	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this tax benefit has no justification, but it remains in the law. The law also retains tax benefits to real estate investment funds, which exempt those who gain the most and those who profit the most from real estate speculation from paying taxes. Tax benefits are kept incomprehensible to cryptomodedas, for example. There is also a criticism of the way this proposal is being prepared. The Government does some ad hoc amendments, does not justify the amendments it makes, and we have just had to follow an initiative that does not structurally alter the benefits or organises them, which does not do so within the State budget and which, above all, imposes a legislative authorization on the Assembly of the Republic so that the Government will continue to restructure the benefits ad hocly. We do not follow this method. This is not the first time we have criticized it, because we believe this is not a way of legislating, especially in matters where the Assembly of the Republic has specific duties to legislate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u19	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u20	Mr. President, good morning to all. Europe is at war, as we all know; we live an economic situation that we haven't lived for decades; inflation is historically high; and therefore this is the time for governments to be ambitious, to be inspired by the great figures of the past, such as Roosevelt, and to alter the tax benefits on motorhomes and colorful diesel oil.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u21	No one wants to know about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u22	The Portuguese Government is well prepared for this, has done a study since 2019,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u23	Um? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u24	... knows fully the tax benefits, it has been in office for seven years, and the question is this: has the mountain made a rat or the really important things come through the legislative authorization that the Assembly of the Republic, with the absolute majority of the PS, prepares to give to the government? Any of the answers is not good because a tax reform of amplitude needs to be done in Portugal. The Free House, in the debate on this reform, is on the side of those who want to tax less work and more capital, is on the side of those who tell non-traditional residents that they cannot live in a beneficial situation when we are telling teachers that they cannot receive what is due them. But in order to be done, this debate must be held in the Assembly of the Republic — and the Government has an absolute majority and, imagine, communicates well with it and has confidence in it. That is the right way to do things and not this, which we oppose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u25	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The bill that the Government brings deserves at least three reflections. The first is precisely the tax exemptions and benefits that the NAP has always advocated for their elimination, but we continue to see that there is a way to go, particularly with regard to the most polluting and profitable companies. We continue to have profits in our oil country of EUR 881 million, as it was in Galp last year, and however, the government insists on maintaining tax stamps, particularly in the ISP, which benefit large pollutants. This cannot be the path to environmental sustainability and this option is not aligned with the Climate Bases Act. This is a first reflection and the conclusion to be withdrawn is that this proposal does not answer. The second reflection is to point out that the study of the tax benefits of 2019 also should not be carried out only by half. I recall that one of the successively forgotten benefits of the Government is precisely a benefit provided for in Article 3 ( 4 ). that of the IRS Code, a perverse benefit that is given to livestock, one of the most polluting activities, with more spending from the public point of view, which continues to generate not only support as subsidies. And we do not see any revocation of these kinds of benefits, which are not only at odds with the fight against climate change and with the principles of animal welfare, but also with the principle of taxonomy and green taxation, in which the most polluting must be taxed. Finally, the last note is to say that this increase in tax, which is planned for motor vehicles, should be well thought out. The measure should not be applied blindly, its pros and cons should be evaluated and we hope that, in the field of specialty, there will be an opening to accept the hearing proposals that the NAP will present, precisely in order to be able to verify whether or not it is fair and balanced to apply to motorhomes these limitations which now result from the draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u27	To close the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Nuno Santos Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear on the subject of the creation of the technical unit: following the report in 2019 from that working group, the Government has mobilized, integrated the European Commission's technical assistance programme into the reforms and has been working under this programme, both with the European Commission and with the IMF. The work carried out in this area had a first moment, which was that of the survey of what it was, and of what it was, done in Portugal ; a second moment, concerning the survey of other examples of other good practices at European and global level; and a third moment, of proposals. These are the proposals which the Government is now preparing to move forward and which, very soon, will be known as corroborating this technical unit. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the lack of transparency in the area of tax benefits, let me remind you that in my last meeting of the Republic, I had already had the opportunity to invite the Members. Members shall consult on the website of the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ) the wide range of information that is produced and made available in this regard. [[PSD protests.]] In fact, the IMF, when it did this study and this work with Portugal, has already said that there is undoubtedly a way to go, but Portugal does not cease to have much in terms of transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u29	The gentlemen. they must send to Parliament. We are not created by the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u30	Today, I brought you, therefore, a brief sample of what is published on the Tax Authority website. It is a brief summary of tax benefits. The speaker displayed the set of documents he mentioned. We have the list of companies, we have the taxes and we have the amount.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u31	Is this it? Two pages? The speaker displayed the pages he mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these 1200 pages are the reduced version.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u33	You have to send it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u34	On environmental issues I did not print the full version and today, with great pleasure, we will bring to Parliament the complete version, with the 5000 pages, for the sake of transparency and discussion. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what this bill brings is the extension, or non-extension, of a set of tax benefits which, as a rule, are renewed every five years. Therefore, the benefits on which this proposal is addressed are those that, in accordance with the law, should be reassessed and reviewed at this time. When we talk about tax benefits, we necessarily talk about political options that must be called upon to promote public policies, extraphysical objectives. Therefore, our tax system, our tax benefits, must be aligned with that which is the vision for the country. Therefore, when we bring fiscal competitiveness to this debate, even if these benefits are not being discussed here today, there is still an opportunity to remind us of the benefits we have — some of which have been revised in the State budget for 2023 — and others who are currently under discussion in the speciality, in the Assembly of the Republic, in the field of research and development and in the promotion of business capitalisation. A stronger and more sustainable economy is also built up with a tax system adapted and adapted to our reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u35	We have thus concluded the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u36	So the government's leaving? Now the debate is about to begin!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u37	Mrs. Members, we move to point two, which consists of the assessment of draft resolution No 414 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the necessary conditions for the collection by the municipalities of revenues within the framework of the economic exploitation of the hydroelectric uses located in them, together with the initiatives that with this project are dragged: the Bills No. 492 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Subjection to IMI of buildings and constructions of dams and power-producing plants and 521 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters, generally; and Resolution Projects Nos 416 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the collection and settlement of tax benefits due in connection with the disposal of six dams in the River Douro basin by EDP to Engie and 428 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government ensure the collection and settlement of taxes due by the sale of six dams by EDP to Engie and that the resulting tax revenue is used for the benefit of local populations. To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Carlos Brás has the palate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems consensual that the territories where wealth is produced or where infrastructures are installed, especially those that are exploited by private and with relevant economic profits, should be compensated and should be part of the distribution of the benefits generated by that same economic activity. In addition, negative externalities to the territories are diverse and local authorities make a huge budgetary effort to ensure public services. On the other hand, the Portuguese tax system, in addition to collecting the revenue needed for the financing of public policies, also has a strong redistributive charism. That is, it has as its aim to fight asymmetries and fight for social and territorial cohesion. Considering these arguments and also considering that the interior, in particular the transmountain interior, is a low-density, low-GDP per capita territory, with a confirmed demographic desertification, marked ageing and strongly dependent on budget transfers due to own revenue weakness, it will be easy to see that we defend that the exploitation activity of dams and electro-producers centres should leave part of the wealth it generates in the territory. The PS motion for a resolution aims to ensure in the short term the necessary conditions for the collection of revenue by municipalities, in particular in the region of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, as part of the economic exploitation of the hydroelectric uses there. It should be recalled in this respect that the question of taxes possibly due to the costly transmission of six dams in the Douro basin is the subject of an investigation process conducted by the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action ( DCIP ) and whose investigation is being carried out by the Tax and Customs Authority. On this issue, and in full respect for the separation of powers, what can be said is that we hope that this process will be completed as soon as possible and that the territory will be relieved of due revenue, if that is the judicial understanding. We understand that the municipalities, territories and their populations must be respected, and respect a territory is to give it back the means to develop itself whenever relevant economic benefits are drawn from it. We believe that the existing legal mechanisms are sufficient and should be exhausted before any legislative amendment. It is important to clarify this situation by allowing the collection of taxes to the limit of the prescription. Recently, the Funchal Administrative and Prosecutor's Tribunal, by sentence of 20 January 2023, sentenced the defendant, the Autonomous Region of Madeira, to register in the matrix the buildings where Madeira Airport is installed, in an action whose author is the municipality of Santa Cruz. It is easily understood that this is the case with the dams under consideration, which is why the Government, through the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, in its Order No 46 of 2023, determines that the assessment, registration and updating of buildings relating to hydroelectric uses in accordance with the IMI is carried out on the basis of the legal-patrimonial nature resulting from the understanding contained in Opinion No 126 / 2005 of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office. Furthermore, it further determines that the corresponding taxes should be settled, in the face of the risk of expiry or limitation. In view of this, what is expected is that, sooner than later, what is due is paid and that the municipalities in question can see the revenue corresponding to the immobilised; and thus make these resources impact on the quality of life of their citizens. To further note, in this regard, the positive attitude of the Left Block, the PCP, the Free and also the PAN, which present ideas for this point to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u39	They don't present any proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u40	On the contrary, neither PSD nor Liberal Initiative nor Enough have any ideas. They don't have any proposals for the interior, for Trás-os-Montes or for the subject of dams. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u41	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u42	Mr President, the Bureau notes that it has a request for clarification. Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to put it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u43	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Brás, I really enjoyed listening. I will say to you that the PS is welcome to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u45	The PS has been away from this debate, contrary to the PSD, which has been in this debate since the beginning of January 2020, through a draft resolution. We are on a whole body in what is justice that is required in collecting these taxes. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you for two clarifications very quickly. First: after all, does your draft resolution have to do with what taxes? Is it just the IMI or is it also another set of taxes, which stems from the sale of dams in Trás-os-Montes?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u47	We need to clarify this matter. Secondly, I have another question, which leaves me some perplexity. Mr. Prime Minister came here often to say that the AT could not be ordered. « The Government cannot give orders to AT », he said in March 2021, but now Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs is giving orders to AT — and well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u48	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u49	Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action was Miranda do Douro saying in December 2020 that there was no tax to be paid. But after all, now, there seems to be taxes to pay. Mr President, my question truly is this: what happened to the PS and the government has changed their position from « no, no and no» to « yes» now. This is an extraordinary question, and I am even able to draw up a suggestion for reply: is it about this investigation process by the Attorney-General of the Republic, which has been triggered — I remind the honourable Member — by five Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group two years ago? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u50	To reply, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u51	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I thank you for the question. In fact, the PS is concerned about tax justice and fiscal equity throughout the territory and all entities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this follow-up, of course, we respect the separation of powers and respect the procedures of the CPID on the question of the costly transmission of dams, but we will see with attention our motion for a resolution that these are property taxes. And since the PSD has not brought any proposals to this House on this matter, what is expected is that it will accompany us in this vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u52	What about the answer to the other question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u53	To intervene in the debate and present Bill No. 492 / XV / 1. the left block has the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a story behind the left block bill. In 2019, when EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) sold six dams to Engie for 2, 2 billion euros, the municipalities of the region and the cultural movement Terras de Miranda demanded that the revenue of these taxes be transferred to the authorities where the dams are located, and that they have suffered damage from having the dams in their territory. The claim of these movements prompted a proposal that was approved in the State Budget, in which the various parliamentary groups approved this idea that the tax revenue would go to the municipalities where the dams are located. This until the time the Members understood that there was no tax revenue to transfer to the municipalities, simply because neither Engie nor EDP had paid 1 cent of tax for the sale of dams. In the case of IMT ( municipal tax on costly transmissions of buildings) there was no payment because it was said that the dams were not subject to IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u56	at that time, there were ministers of the Government of the Socialist Party to go to Miranda do Douro saying that there was no place for the payment of the IMI ; there were ministers of the Socialist Party to swallow the arguments of the EDP and to recite them in Miranda do Douro, to say that there was no place for the payment of the IMI! When we went to investigate, we discovered that the Tax Authority had already decided, in the past, to charge IMI for the dams. The EDP, as it is good to see, put the Tax Authority in arbitral tribunal and, in arbitral tribunal, the Tax Authority ceased to charge the IMI — it gave the struggle as lost, giving up argument, purely and simply— but it did wrong, because it was right: the dams are buildings, which are in the balance sheet of private companies, and therefore are subject to IMI. That EDP does not pay IMI is just a demonstration of the enormous privilege it enjoys in this country, where EDP does not pay the taxes that are due and that are required to any citizen or small company. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] I did not understand, by the intervention of the Socialist Party, what is going to happen, because, sooner or later, it seems to me that EDP will never pay this IMI. The left block bill is to end the doubts: EDP, Engie and dam dealers pay IMI for the buildings/ dams they have on their balance sheet. And this recipe is from the municipalities where dams are located. It's as simple as this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u57	To submit Bill No. 521 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u58	You're not gonna talk about IMI, are you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In February 2020, when the business of selling the six dams of the Miranda region, EDP, to the consortium led by Engie, the CFP submitted a draft resolution on this issue in the Assembly of the Republic. The PCP, from the beginning, opposed the segmentation of the concession of hydroelectric production because this segmentation is aimed at hindering the need to recover a unique logic of hydroelectric production at the service of the public interest, which requires the recovery of public control over this strategic sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u61	At the time, the Government could have prevented the business because, even in the context of the privatisation of EDP, decided by the PSD / CDS Government, this rule was established which allowed the government to prevent the segmentation of the concession. The government could and should have done what the CFP at the time recommended: it opposes the business, using this prerogative to avoid this unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u63	And it's good not to forget all the basic implications of this business from the beginning. In the time of the PS government of José Socrates, by decision of then Minister Manuel Pinho, EDP received from the National Energy Networks, SGPS, SA ) the ownership of all major dams in the country, with an appreciation of 700 million euros. See: 27 dams were evaluated by 700 million. After a few years, with EDP already privatized, this time by PSD and CDS, only 6 of these 27 dams were sold for EUR 2200 million, which shows how this valuation was undervalued — another reason why at the time of the sale of this part of the concession, the government had used the prerogative not to authorize this sale. This business is therefore a consequence of the process of liberalisation, segmentation and privatization of the energy sector, which had as protagonists PS, PSD and CDS governments. The energy dimension has, however, been joined by the huge fiscal scandal that is the fact that this EUR 2200 million business can be exempt from tax. It is unacceptable and fair the outrage of the Portuguese, particularly of the populations of Miranda do Douro, Mogadouro and Vimioso, which we welcome again. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP brings to this debate a bill aimed at preventing the State from resorting to arbitration to settle disputes of an administrative and fiscal nature. This project gains a new update with the publication of the Office of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to clarify that equipment associated with hydroelectric uses must pay IMI. It is important to remember that this was the interpretation that the Tax Authority had until 2015, and it was precisely a challenge posed by EDP, headed by an arbitral tribunal, which led to the change of interpretation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u65	...which now prevents EDP or Engie from putting this issue back in an arbitral court, even with the Secretary of State's office, and from being released again from any tax. At the initiative of the CFP, it is ensured that, in relation to the government's order or any change to the IMI code, we will accompany, or any other tax issue, if there is a challenge to EDP, Engie or any other energy, this dispute will be settled in courts rather than in a form of private justice where the State is almost always damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u66	I mean, change the rules in the middle of the game!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u67	See the example mentioned above of the change in the interpretation of AT in 2015 ; or the example of Fridão's dam, where again it was an arbitral tribunal that decided to return EUR 218 million from the State to EDP in an unacceptable decision; or, in the context of road PPPs (public-private partnerships) the compensation decided in arbitration, which already cost hundreds of millions of euros to the Portuguese State, to the concessionaires. In order to ensure that the Government's order, as well as other initiatives to be voted on today, is not in the way of failure, it is necessary to adopt the proposal of the CFP. And again, we say: tax matters are important, but in terms of energy policy, there needs to be a profound change, ending with this market simulation, which only benefits large private energy groups, and recovering public control of the national electricity system to serve the country's needs and not profits, to promote socially fair energy transition, price reduction, energy sovereignty, development and progress in the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u68	To present the Resolution Project No 416 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u69	Mr President, it is not today that in this Parliament the NAP has fought against the aggressive fiscal policy that the Government has promoted and that, once again, it allows an asphyxiation to families and small and medium-sized enterprises, leaving with a strike and an oxygen balloon those who pollute and profit the most. The EDP has not been an exception, quite the contrary; it is from the large polluters that most perverse subsidies have and that also ends, because they do not have the same counterpart in terms of tax burden. Today, what the NAP is defending is that EDP pays the taxes it owes following the sale of the dams to Engie. At least EUR 110 million is about to be charged and paid, two years ago, which has resulted in the public perception that we have a state and a tax action with two pesos and two measures. On the one hand, it gives this idea of compliance of AT with tax evasion; on the other hand, it generates in taxpayers the image of a Tax Authority which has two weights and two measures, with a heavy hand for those, particularly small companies, who see themselves with difficulties in paying their taxes, but if they delay to pay for a week, they soon have consequences. For EDP, which for two years runs wildly away from the payment of millions of euros in taxes—which are so lacking to taxpayers—we have a pleasing AT that, if necessary, will still slap you in the back. What is intended is that these EUR 110 million finally reach the public record and be put at the service of a sustainable development of the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro region, of improving the well-being of the populations of this region, but also of the environmental recovery of the banks themselves of the Douro River. Although we are talking about taxation in this debate, we cannot forget, or ignore, the environmental impact these dams have and have, a very negative impact that has destroyed ecosystems. For this reason, this amount of money is essential, either from a social or environmental point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u70	To present the Resolution Project No 428 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u71	Mr President, first of all, we must register and regret the absence of the Government in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u72	How did the State Budget vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u73	We have had here, even now, Mr Secretary of State to discuss the great question of withdrawing benefits from motor vehicles and at the moment we are serious about charging taxes due to infrastructures as dams the government pays for absence. In fact, I am concerned that, a little while ago, I ironized with Mr. Secretary of State that what a Roosevelt would do in time of war in Europe, with high inflation, would be to take advantage of the caravans and I fear that he found it to be true, when we have good examples of what was done, precisely with dams. In the 1930s, the dams of the Tennessee Valley served to pay for all the mechanization of agriculture in that area, agricultural renewal, social projects, cultural projects. So far, the taxpayer, in the American case, does not put a dollar in these projects, because they are the barriers that pay them — rather than having tax bills, the dams pay for local development. Now, we translate this and I don't even say it to Portuguese, I say it to Miradense. The association of defence of the Miradense language and culture has, if I am not mistaken, a subsidy of €20 000 per year. It was a struggle in the context of the budget amendments to give EUR 100 000 annually to the Miradense, a language that has survived more than nationality itself and that is currently at risk of losing itself. If the dams in Miranda had paid the seal tax, it was 100 million. It was not EUR 100 000, it was EUR 100 million! Only that the language of EDP, there, is not Portuguese, nor Miradense, is the "economy" or, perhaps, the "pirate" ; it is to take the resources away and leave nothing in exchange. Those 100 million, plus what is due to IMI, plus what is due to IMT, serve, yes, for the defense of cultural heritage built, immaterial or linguistic, the fixation of young people, the recovery of species—such as that of the Miradense donkey—the recovery of ecosystems and also for the doing of what was said here yesterday, for which it was found that, perhaps, there were no resources from the State, which is decentralisation. That is, to grow medium cities in the country, to balance our territory. There are resources for that, it is necessary that those there are making a lot of money pay. That the government is not present, when we are discussing a question that involves all these variants, it is simply regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u74	To speak in the debate, Mr Sobrinho Teixeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to express on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, in particular the Deputies of Bragança, Vila Real and the various regions of the country, the great satisfaction in proposing and subscribing this draft resolution. We are sure that the result of this recommendation to the Government will be to restore justice to the territories, in order to bring back to them the wealth of the resources generated there. It was a struggle of generations, with bitter sense of justice, which we will now see ended. This draft resolution recommends that the Government, and I quote, « ensure in the short term the conditions necessary for the capture by the municipalities, particularly in the region of Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro », so that the same affects a diversified set of taxes, covering in particular the IMI, but also the Seal Tax and the IMT due to the sale of six dams from EDP to Engie, in the Douro basin. in this respect, we now welcome the statement by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs of 3 February last, which determines that the Tax Authority promotes the necessary procedures for these hydroelectric uses to pay IMI, on the basis of an opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, of May 2016. This order, in addition to finally obliging the IMI to be collected by the AT, has the virtuality to ensure that it may affect the last four fiscal years. This was also a demand of the people and their representatives, that this way and this office ensure, contrary to the doubts that other proposals might raise. This process shows to everyone, especially to us, that belief is insurmountable, that struggle is worth fighting and that democracy works. We'll continue! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u76	To speak in the debate, Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is clearly an important issue, and it is important to clarify it. There is no doubt that dams need to pay IMI, and this PS resolution project and the subsequent Secretary of State's office go on that path. And I, as transmountan and as Portuguese, in general, hope that this will be realized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u79	...because it's not just for Tres-os-Montes, it's for about 68 hydroelectric uses in the country,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u80	...in the interior country, in the distant country of the coast and development. [[PSD applause.]] This is good, but there is a doubt that it is being launched here and that it has to be very well clarified. Mr Brás said: 'This draft resolution has only to do with capital taxes' — so it has nothing to do with the seal tax, because it has to do with the sale. We must make it clear that it is not through this draft resolution or the office of the Secretary of State that taxes will be charged, the millions and millions of euros that are due to the lands of Trás-os-Montes, the sale of dams. [[PSD applause.]] Let's not go fooling people! It's not worth it! There are the transmountans who know that the PS is not on the right track to charge the tax on the sale of the dams that was made two years ago. It is not on this path, it is exactly on the way in which the Minister of the Environment were in December 2020, and the Prime Minister, during the year 2021, when he said: « It does not pay! Do not keep on seeking. ” So you didn't do a back-to-face here. No, no! They are in the year in which they have been from the beginning: « this business of EUR 2, 2 billion does not pay taxes », you say. But I should pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u81	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u82	We don't say, no! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u83	I should pay, even for one reason: because it is fair, because that territory has shortages and those equipment belong to the territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u84	The PSD has been fighting for this matter since the beginning, and so much in the beatings that in a situation of disappointment in the face of closed government doors we resort to the Attorney-General of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u85	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u86	In March 2021, we lodged a complaint in the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic — which will be making its way, in respect of the separation of powers, of course — we choose that justice be pronounced on this matter, because there is a situation that seems to us to be fraud. But if it's not fraud, it's gross injustice, it's gross iniquity!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u88	However, we cannot tolerate this, even on behalf of the people who have been engaged in this matter, which I would like to praise, in particular the Miranda Land Cultural Movement. Those people deserve and you are blocking the solution of this problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u89	To take part in the debate on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u90	Mr President, it is interesting to see the Socialist Party bring this issue to debate, saying that it is now to resolve the matter. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't about solving the matter, it's about washing your face...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u92	... of the nonsense that the government has made in this matter over the last few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u93	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u94	You know why they do so, because they bring here a draft resolution, which is absolutely worthless from the operational point of view, so that the government — and I will read to people at home, understand — « ensures, in the short term, the conditions necessary for the collection of revenue by the municipalities[... ] of the hydroelectric uses located there, for the benefit of the social and economic policies of the region ». Do you know what the legal value of this is from a fiscal point of view? It's zero! But it's not because of your incompetence, it's because this is what you want. You want this to be of no use!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u96	For years, Minister Matos Fernandes and Prime Minister have been saying: "No, no! EDP ( Energy from Portugal ) does not have to pay taxes. » Now comes a Secretary of State — by chance, the same thing that has gone away recently — say that, no, EDP has to pay taxes, and you try to wash your face with a draft resolution, knowing that this will not be worth anything at all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is $300 million in tax revenue that the PS has allowed EDP not to pay, and it is not with this draft resolution that it will pay. More: the two draft resolutions which are also under discussion, either by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real or by Mr Rui Tavares, with due respect, do not serve anything at all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u97	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u98	... because there is no tax collection through the will of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u99	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u100	Tax collection and settlement are made by law, not by the will of the Government. in a case in which there is a dispute in court and in which there was a decision of the Administrative and Fiscal Court of Porto, and even another of the Constitutional Court, as everyone perceives, a draft resolution serves absolutely nothing but to deceive those who are seeing us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u102	It is very clear that, for what has to be done here, there are two ways: either an interpretative norm, through a bill, or subjection, which is the way that the Left Block has chosen. There's no other way! The rest is to throw sand for people's eyes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u104	The PS, if it really wanted to have tax payments in these cases, only had to make a bill with an interpretative standard to say that in all cases, even in these cases, there had to be tax payments. Why didn't the PS do it? Because he wants EDP not to pay dam taxes. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u105	That's the truth! But more: the PCP, as always, comes the game take advantage, with something that has nothing to do with,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u106	Not that you don't have! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u107	...to try to do whatever you want, which is to end all arbitration and change the rules in the middle of the game. What Mr Duarte Alves said today here is paradigmatic: do not go to EDP, or any other, then challenge, then, it is better to remove the jurisdiction system that is in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u108	Exactly! Go to court!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u109	Look, Mr, why don't we end the training courts, since there are a number of cases that are being tried now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u110	Learn, learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u111	Go to court!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u112	It is called to change the rules in the middle of the game.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u113	Go to court! He's defending EDP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u114	In fact, I will give you something new, Mr President, perhaps to learn: arbitration is planned since the first version of the 1984 Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. Who was here in 84? Remember: it was your bench, which was huge!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u115	Mr. Deputy is EDP's lawyer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u116	You want to put an end to something that has been in the Portuguese legal tradition since the beginning.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u117	The central block tradition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u118	This is absurd and only shows your will to bring more state and asphyxiate anything that is not State. That's what they want to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u119	It's justice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u120	Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, if they wanted to solve this problem, they would have - they did it. What they do here is to save your face and your government, which now shames you. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u121	They even tear the garments: "Alas, Jesus, the arbitration! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u122	You don't want them paying taxes! Arbitration means they don't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u123	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The whole question about the subjecting or exemption of dams, with regard to IMI, is another evidence of how, unfortunately, the complexity of our tax system leads to the frequent need to depend on interpretations of the Tax Authority, always casual and often too often—too arbitrary. This contributes to the uncertainty and instability of tax obligations to which taxpayers are subject, one of the most frequently identified problems with regard to the country's attractiveness. With regard to IMI in particular, there are exemptions of various types, and one of them intends to be an incentive for investment or the use of buildings to which relevant social value is attributed. These situations are provided for both in the IMI Code and in the Tax Benefit Statute. In none of the cases of exemption provided for in the current law are included barriers held by private persons, so the interpretation of the current Tax Authority is obviously very controversial. However, it is important to add the following: the energy and environmental importance of dams is undeniable, so that the Tax Benefit Statute itself provides that the IMI of these dams can be reduced by 50 %, upon a reasoned request. This indicates not only the recognition of that importance but also the fact that this tax burden ends, sooner or later, by also paying the end-users. In short, the Liberal Initiative criticizes the complexity and weight of our tax system and therefore fights for its simplification and its deterioration. But, until that happens, we obviously defend the scrupulous compliance of the law, which must be clarified unequivocally, in the process of speciality. To this end, we will make it possible for the bill of the Left Block and we will vote against the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, which does not pass a sign of virtue and will in no way solve the problem. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u125	It's no use!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u126	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order for the revenue to return to the municipalities, there must be a recipe. This is a basic principle, because if the revenue is not charged to EDP, it cannot revert to the municipalities. The question we have to ask is, where is the recipe? There are two sources of revenue. The first is that of the taxes due by the sale of the dams. The government had the chance, and had this opportunity, to charge these taxes and to do the business of selling the dams, subjecting it to the collection of these taxes. It was warned by the Miranda Land Cultural Movement that this was going to happen, but ignored this alert and still wanted to accuse this movement of political opportunism. We remember well what the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group have done! Instead of thanking and valuing the activism of citizens who joined to warn the government that there would be aggressive tax planning, they criticized this movement, ostracized it and took the position of EDP. Now, the only thing you can do is wait for the courts and the Tax Authority to decide to charge taxes on the sale of dams. Another issue is that of the IMI, which the Tax Authority can already charge and does not only do so because it gave up doing so, claiming that the law is not clear. This is the third time the Left Block presents a bill to clarify that law. We cannot say that the issue of collecting the IMI from the dams is an undeniable question of belief. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not talking about beliefs! Either you change the law or you don't change the law, the PS or you want to change the law or you don't want to change the law, or you want to charge the tax or you don't want to charge the tax. Now, we leave here today without knowing whether or not there will be any collection of IMI, and I think this is certainly a result that does not respect the populations of the Miranda lands. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u128	To speak again in the debate, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u129	Mr President, very quickly, and following this last intervention, I wanted to make two points clear. The Socialist Party, if it really wanted to ensure tax collection, particularly in some cases of ongoing processes, had today presented a change of law, and even a change of law that had retroactive effect, which, as it is known, is possible in some cases. I didn't want it, I didn't want it deliberately, and I presented a completely harmless draft resolution in this case. We must not forget the following: much of what we are discussing today, regarding the non-payment of taxes, has been due to opinions by both the Portuguese Environment Agency and the Tax Authority itself on the classification of dams as a public domain, and hence the liquidation of the IMI has fallen. Well, we can't — and we can't! (ii) to provide information to the courts on how to do justice, but the Government may and should, through hierarchical mechanisms, provide guidance to its agencies, in particular the Tax Authority and the Portuguese Environment Agency. If he didn't, it was for one reason: he didn't want to! If today the peoples of Trás-os-Montes do not have this revenue, this is due to a single parliamentary group: that of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u130	To close this debate, Mrs Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Clarifying, the PS wants to charge the tax on the sale of dams,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u132	Want, want! Yeah, but it's not EDP! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u133	... and we hope that we will soon have a decision of the courts to have the right to pay taxes and these taxes back to territory, as has already been approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. There is no doubt about that! Then the PS wants the IMI to be charged, and wants the IMI to be charged also for the last four years. Now, if we now approve an amendment to the current law — as is the case with the Left Block proposal — we will be losing four years of taxes, and we do not want that to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u134	And so we lost the last four and the next ones too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u135	The statement by the Secretary of State is very clear on this matter and also states that, if there is any legal doubt, it must be put by the AT to the Government itself, which will respond. That is why we want taxes to be charged and we want taxes to return to the development of the territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mr Adam Silva said, it is not only from Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, it is from all over the country, because we do not only have electro-producers centers in this region, although we have a large part of the electro-producers centers, a very large density of electro-producers centers in this region. But even more: this Socialist Party resolution does not only talk about taxes, it talks about all the revenue that must be collected. in this regard, we want to raise two other questions here. currently, the EDP does not pay the incomes that are due to the territories. There is a decree-law of 1983, Decree-Law No. 424 / 83, which determines that rents are paid to the territories where the centers are electroproducers. For many years, EDP has not been paying these rents, which has led the Association of Low Taste Municipalities to decide to put a process against EDP, to force EDP to pay the rents. In addition, EDP is not complying with several decisions of the DIA ( Environmental Impact Statement ) in the construction of the Low-Savour dam, including the financing of the Low-Savour fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u136	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u137	There is a decision that is not being complied with, and we also want the government to look at it, so that it can be fulfilled. Our objective is that all territories from which wealth is extracted, using their natural resources, whether the electro-producers centres is another type of extractive industries, be compensated and that the development of them is promoted, setting people and doing justice to these territories. That is our desire, our intention and our commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u138	We are thus finishing the debate on the second item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 366 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By the dignity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Activity, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 538 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates a line of financial support for the implementation of a national programme to support and encourage the production of vegetable crops, and 546 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Access to the title of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute and the programme to enhance family and rural agriculture. After a small interval, for hydroelectric production to give priority to agriculture... [[Laughing.]] ... we came to the presentation of the draft resolution of the Arrival. To that end, Mr Pedro Frazão, from this parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u139	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members: Today the Arrival presents a draft resolution recommending that the Government dignify the Ministry of Agriculture and the entire agricultural sector. This draft resolution demonstrates the contact of our parliamentary group with the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u141	For the Arrival, Portugal is not only the big cities and the coast. For us, Portugal is much more, it is Viseu, it is Guarda, it is White Castle, it is the Alentejo, it is the interior and it is also the Azores and Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u143	The agricultural sector and the citizens of the interior, in the villages and villages, can have no less value than the citizens who inhabit the neighborhoods of the big cities, such as the Royal Prince. The latter always move very well in power and find in this House the protection of all banks of the regime, who do not know well what the field is. For, like today, the dignification of agriculture and farmers has never been so necessary. Never, as today, political power has devalued both the rural world, an urban political power, but word, which governs Portugal with a limited look, from the Plaza do Comercio. Never, as today, food dependence was so great, as a result of policies against the agricultural production sector and the result of political decisions that sell our sovereignty in exchange for subsidies to leave the land and the sea. The cynicism and incompetence of the Ministry of Agriculture and of this Government are more than many and, incomparably less, the President of the Socialist Republic Jorge Sampaio sent below the Government of Santana Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u145	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who is not here today, the honourable Member and his bench, his comrades, are not ashamed to support the Prime Minister and the Government that most disrespect the agricultural sector and insult farmers since April 1975? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u146	All right! Well asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u147	After so many lost competences, now even the PEPAC funds (Strategic Plan on Common Agricultural Policy) which are destined for forestry will transit to the environment. The President himself of the Confederation of Farmers denounces this government and says that he is breaking down the Ministry of Agriculture and that the Minister is a 'trailer' who has an action 'unimaginable, unqualifying and unacceptable' in his own words. This is a government that has long ceased to govern and engage in childish groups of WhatsApp groups among ministers, state secretaries and advisors. We well remember the shameful controversy that led to the resignation of the Secretary of State with dubious accounts in just 26 hours. The Prime Minister has remodeled, changed the Government's Organic Law and changed the powers of agriculture for fisheries. But since 26 hours is still a long time, we also had another express resignation. At 6 a.m. on January 30, the Minister was informed that he had appointed a deputy-general convicted of crimes of abuse of power, economic participation in business and falsification of documents. At 2 p.m., the Minister in Brussels said that there was no impediment or any legal or ethical problem. At 6 p.m. and 41 minutes on the same day on 30 January, Mrs Sub-Director-General presented a dimension. This is the 'Greenway' of resignations in agriculture! [[Congrats from the CH.]] to the ministers who lie to the people we could no longer get used to, but now we have a worse novelty: ministers who lie to ministers, within their competences and in the performance of their sovereign functions. Indeed, it is a lie that regional agricultural directors will switch to Vice-Presidents of the CCDRs ( Coordination and Regional Development Committees ). A member of the government has deceived another colleague of the government and is denied here in Parliament. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, please elucidate us: in this heading of the 'case of the day', which of the Ministers denied is that you speak the truth? Is she the Minister of Territorial Cohesion or is she the Minister of Agriculture? Or maybe it's none of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's bullshit is more than many and this government is no longer a government of management, it's a disgraced government. Lies have consequences. So we have thousands of farmers on the streets, through the district capitals of Portugal, who transmit this message: « Mr. The Minister... the straw doesn't come from Abrantes! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The speaker displayed a photograph of a poster with the above-mentioned phrase. Look carefully at what the sector says, what is the consequence of the lies of this government and the Minister. The Minister, by irritation or a failed act, appointed the PEPAC National Committee and did not include the representative of the CAP (common agricultural policy). Yes, with arrive you can always count and here we are to defend the rural world and farmers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u150	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN to present her bill. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What may define the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and, in particular, the Minister of Agriculture is undoubtedly incompetence. Over the past few years, we have seen a lack of vision that aligns our agriculture with the policy of the European Ecological Pact and the climate challenges, which has not only affected those who work seriously in the field, but has also noted the disintegration in which our Government is currently in an absolutely structural area, taking into account the challenges of food sovereignty, especially caused by Russia's war and invasion of Ukraine, with the consequences it has brought to the other countries. What the NAP has proposed today is precisely this concern: on the one hand, autonomy and food sovereignty for the creation of a national programme to support and encourage the production of vegetable crops, aimed at promoting the cultivation of legumes intended for human consumption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u152	Just comemostof, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u153	... preferably in local markets, thus aligning this strategy with the European Prado strategy to the Prato and promoting the autonomy and sovereignty of the country in these matters. At present, our country imports 77 000 tonnes of dried legumes per year when it could be self-sufficient, if there were incentives to produce these foods, contributing not only to human health, but also to a reduction in the use of fertilizers and to the resilience of national agricultural systems, while also valuing the role of our producers. Although Portuguese soils and climate conditions are conducive to the production of legumes, at present national production represents only 0, 04 % of world production. There was a desist and a swindler of this activity in our country. at a time when food sovereignty is being discussed and the very serious problem of climate change, what we verify is a ministry completely closed in usual conservatism. It should be remembered that the production of 1 kg meat emits 19 times more CO2 (carbon dioxide) to the atmosphere than the same amount of legumes. In addition, the production of legumes also contributes to the fixing of nitrogen in soils, organic matter production, the combating of erosion and the reduction of soil degradation and also shows greater profitability in the use of water.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u154	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u155	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. We need a 21st century agriculture, an agriculture that values national products and their consumption, through more sustainable methods and also on a smaller scale. That is why we need to have this kind of strategy, to have more impact on the environment and, above all, to safeguard human health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u156	I now give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP and to Mrs Alma Rivera. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As much as it takes, as many of us want to be distracted by lateral issues, there are four aspects which are undisturbed, from the outset, the relative size and weight of small and medium-sized agriculture. They say that more than 85 % of the agricultural holdings in Portugal are family members, which occupy more than 50 % of the useful agricultural soil and more than 80 % of the labour force. Secondly, the difficulties faced by all farmers, whether for climatic reasons such as drought, either by the speculative increase in the prices of production factors, or by the difficulty of draining their products at a fair price, subject to the dictatorship of the large distribution. It is also with the sweat of the small farmers that Galp, Jerónimo Martins or Sonae make big money. The third aspect is the unequal treatment of small and medium-sized agriculture, with the scandalous promotion of large agribusiness, translated in the fact that 7 % of the beneficiaries of CAP support receive 70 % of the aid,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u159	... by deliberate choice of successive governments, in which PS and PSD share equal responsibilities, which is added to the bureaucratic web that prevents young people from accessing such aid, it also has to be accentuated with PEPAC, which is now about to start.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u161	The fourth and final aspect, which stems from the previous, is that despite the millions that the rulers do not tire of announcing that they take off on national agriculture and the success cases that they like to visit, a poorest rural world, a more dependent foreign country for their food, with cases that even call into question national security, with an agri-food balance that continues to be more than 3500 million euros negative. Yes, Mr. President and Mr. Members, so much concentration of property, so much modernity, both increased the average area of the farms have translated into a more vulnerable country, as in these days you can see, with a storage of cereals for only 15 days, or as well as demonstrate the dramatic fires that, year after year, go through mat saws, where there was previously a small agriculture. The successive governments liked, and this is no exception, to walk hand in hand with the big agribusiness and this is seen, either in the option of cutting the right in support of the smaller ones in the CAP, with a cut of 50% for farmers with less than 1 ha in the small farming regime, which should embarrass the Socialist Party and its Government, or in the contempt to which they voted the Family Agriculture Statute. Yes, sir. Members, family agriculture, which goes to the markets to sell, to which it has in this activity a complement of its salary or its reform, assumes strategic importance for national production, for quality and for food sovereignty, for the harmonious occupation of the territory, for the protection of the environment, of the forest and the rural world and for economic and social cohesion in vast regions. It is a family agriculture where the government fails at all or almost everything, starting with the failure to implement the Family Agriculture Statute, which is nothing more than a vague political declaration without substance and without any advantage to the universe of small and medium-sized family farmers in Portugal. The figures published by DGADR ( Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development) on 31 December 2022, which tell us that, from the universe of more than 250 000 potential candidates, only 3518 applications are available and 2446 titles of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute, of which only 669 are active, almost one third, up from one year. That is why the CFP brings the debate to a bill for the Family Agriculture Statute to translate into the instrument for the development of agriculture, the rural world and the food sovereignty that the country needs. Measures must be taken to promote and implement the Statute, which strengthens the structures necessary to provide support due to farmers, in particular the beneficiaries of the title of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute, and to implement a genuine programme to enhance small and medium-sized agriculture, diversified and capable of responding to the needs of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u162	We will now turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups that did not present an initiative on this subject. Let us begin with Mrs Dora Brandão, who has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, I greet Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, for the presentation of the Bill No 538 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates a line of financial support for the implementation of a national programme to support and encourage the production of vegetable crops. This initiative proposes to create a line of financial support for the production of vegetable crops for human consumption and to ensure that this line of support is provided by the State budget, which is eligible for European funding. This proposal, in our view, is too small and will bring about an imbalance, by converting almost all legume production exclusively for human consumption, to the detriment of production which is also necessary to feed livestock. There are also measures already in place. Otherwise, let's see: the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy for 2023 - 2027 does not forget this concern of legumes, because it provides support for the production of proteaginous, in order to ensure the specific production of crops with high protein content and consequently the improvement of the national supply of proteins of plant origin. Applications for this support for this year will be made through the Single Application and may be submitted through the portal of the Institute for Financing Agriculture and Fisheries, the IFAP, from 1 March. This effectively demonstrates the government's responsible bet in this area of the Socialist Party. For the PCP, I greet Mrs Alma Rivera for the presentation of Bill No 546 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Access to the title of recognition of the Statute of Family Agriculture and Family Agriculture Valuation Programme and Rural World. Madam Member, I should like to remind you that family farming is only relevant after 2018, when the Socialist Party comes for the first time to legislate this matter. Before 2018 there was nothing: there was a legal void, being these large thousands of farmers completely unprotected by rights in their specificity. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP Members Alma Rivera and Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u164	They're calling for the ladies. Members, first of all, amend Articles 5. it's 6. that of Decree-Law No 64 / 2018, from 7 August, passing the current 20 % to 10 % of the total collectable income. We do not follow this proposal, since the current value, in our view, allows to pay for family work and, on the other hand, enables access to finance that promotes the development of exploitation activity and consequently the increase in the contribution and wealth generated in the territory. She also proposed that all beneficiaries of the small agricultural scheme should be allocated almost automatically to the Family Agriculture Statute, which is not feasible, because not all entities fulfil the requirements necessary for such recognition.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u165	But what requirements? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u166	As regards the remaining proposals for amendments, they are recorded, although often with different terminology, in Articles 5. it's 6. that of the law decree in force. The support proposed for the payment of fees and charges charged under the agricultural activity is not possible because they are not eligible at the level of the CAP. We can only reinforce that there have been several competitions through the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme) that prioritized the selection of farmers with the Family Agriculture Statute, which were supported by 70 % of the cost of the premium in the Harvest Insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u167	But it's not working!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u168	With regard to the renewal of the title, this measure is already in force, and the farmer must submit the documents in which the change in values occurs, in particular agricultural income and support. Moreover, PEPAC also envisages, and safeguards, this type of agriculture. In our view, Mrs Deputy, legislation enables us to safeguard the object of the principles set out in the Family Agriculture Statute and will be a priority for the Socialist Party, in the wake of what happened in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u169	It's just you don't notice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u170	Now, for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Ramalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is evidence that the agricultural sector has been losing social and political importance in recent years, being often treated as a smaller sector of the national economy and often even forgotten by the media agenda itself, despite being one of the most resilient and growing sectors in recent years, at the level of exports. In addition, this sector never stopped during the pandemic, so that nothing was missing at the Portuguese table, when much of the country was in confinement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u172	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u173	Farmers, in addition to food producers, are also active caregivers of the rural landscape and main actors of environmental sustainability. It is not by chance that agricultural policy is the only truly common policy throughout the European Union and, we recognize, it is highly valued by most of its Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u174	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u175	There is no government with a true sense of responsibility that does not care about the food security and sovereignty of its people and, moreover, does not worry about ensuring that it has the ability to access quality food at fair prices, which it can really pay. Our agricultural business fabric is one of the oldest in the European Union: only 4 % of farmers are under 40 years of age. But the truth is that the current socialist government does not see agriculture as a priority and seems to devalue the importance and work of agricultural producers in the territory. It is sufficient to see that of the approximately EUR 16 billion of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), only a little more than EUR 300 million are allocated to the agricultural sector. In the last 12 months, the cost of the food stock has increased by about 20 % and, nevertheless, the result of the terrible inflationary escalation of the production factors, many of the agricultural and livestock producers are unable to ensure the sustainability of their farms. These are concerns that the PSD has long been monitoring and reporting. [[PSD applause.]] Farmers, although strongly represented by associations and cooperative organizations, have always seen in the Ministry of Agriculture and in their structures a close and powerful partner, able to respond to their challenges and ambitions, to defend and assist in their problems and difficulties. But today, when most needed, farmers could not count on the Ministry of Agriculture, except to put the sector back on the media agenda, but now because of their tacks, incompetence and incapacity. [[PSD applause.]] Support for mitigating the crisis that has plagued the sector, in addition to insufficient, for this or that reason, is always late. It is not by chance that the INE estimates a fall of 11, 8 % of the income of the national agricultural activity in 2022. at a time when we are starting to implement a new Community support framework, the so-called "PEPAC—Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy of Portugal for the period 2023 - 2027", still needs to be implemented 1 million and 300 thousand euros of the previous framework of the RDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u176	It's up to 2025!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u177	Speaking in PEPAC, although it formally began its operation on 1 January last, the Ministry of Agriculture, as incredible as it seems, has not yet published the necessary legal diplomas which will lay down the rules for its application. That is why, strictly speaking, even though farmers are already fully engaged in their campaign, they do not know exactly how much aid they will receive this year. This PEPAC was built unilaterally by this government, without valuing, as should, the contributions of farmers. The fact is that, in addition to not responding properly to imbalances in support between sectors, farmers and territories, it does not allocate sufficient resources to promote a more productive and competitive national agricultural sector. In the middle of this, after a Secretary of State who was in place only 25 hours, we spent 40 days without Secretary of State for Agriculture, who ended up taking possession of only last Wednesday and to whom we sincerely take advantage of to wish for courage and lots of luck. But, as if this were not enough, do we now have one more trick: are the regional agricultural and fisheries directives (DRAP) going to be extinct or not? Are the current regional directors or not to take on one of the vice-presidentships of the future regional development coordination committees? The Minister of Agriculture assured that they would not be extinct, that the structures and services would remain as they are and that the current regional directors would assume a vice-presidency of the future CCDRs to ensure the coordination of policies. In the meantime, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion came to expressly deny her colleague for agriculture and announce that the future organic law of the regional coordination and development committees will establish only four vice-presidents and that it is not expected that the current regional agricultural directors will take on one of the vice-presidentships of the future CCDRs. Well, what are we up to? What's the strategy? And what role will it be reserved for the Ministry of Agriculture? In good rigour, only Prime Minister Antonio Costa will be able to clarify it. It is true that, if we do not find it wrong to have a greater and better coordination of policies also at local and regional level, it is absolutely essential that we do not ignore the importance of regional direction in agriculture and fisheries as close structures to the territory and farmers, particularly in the management tasks of very specific Community programmes and with very complex rules, as are clearly those linked to the common agricultural policy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u178	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr João Cotrim Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the three diplomas we have discussed at this item on the agenda, I would like to begin by announcing from now on that we will abstain in the vote on the draft laws of the NAP and the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u180	Grants are just the big ones, aren't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u181	This is because, although they are dedicated to worthy causes, such as the cultivation of legumes, in the case of the NAP — for which Portugal even has competitive advantages in some species — and the Statute of the Family Farmer, in the case of the CFP, they both resort to that old trap of subsidizing thoroughly all these activities. You know it's gonna turn out bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u183	Subsidy is only for small agriculture, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u184	In addition, they use the principle of food sovereignty, which we like too much protectionism and even a'proudly alone' which I would not like to sanction, until, if all countries had the same notion of food sovereignty, they would export our own agriculture there. So I'm going to focus on the draft resolution of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u186	A little while ago, Mr Ventura said that the draft resolutions did not mean much. Anyway, I wouldn't go that far. It is indeed a sign of virtue that arrives to us, but one of the virtues that signals is important to us, because it has to do with the dignity that has not been attributed to the agricultural sector. The treatment of this Government and the Minister for Agriculture must be called « unworthy », and agriculture deserves more respect. Because of the importance it has in the economy — by almost 8 % of GDP that its food and forestry lines mean — because it is important for territorial cohesion — many may not know, but more than 90 % of the territory in Portugal is classified as rural — for social cohesion, for environmental sustainability and for fire prevention, as has been mentioned several times, agriculture deserves more respect. Above all, agriculture did not deserve the disrespect that this Government and this Minister have constantly voted for the sector. It is disrespectful what happened in the "novel" with the Secretary of State for Agriculture, which, at one time, can beat two records: the record of the Secretary of State who spent less time in office — someone made accounts, was 25 hours and 54 minutes — and also the record of the longer time it took to replace a Secretary of State — took more than a month and a half. There was an unacceptable disregard for the delay in the publication of the general implementing rules for PEPAC. Even today farmers do not know very well how many are going to walk, and that is why, perhaps in a period of Freudian, the Minister has forgotten to include the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) in the PEPAC Monitoring Committee. After that, he is still surprised that the CAP does not recommend the vote on the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u188	Finally, it is a disgrace that this huge mess of regional agricultural and fisheries management is a disgrace. In an interview, at least one week ago to the public, in a few questions, several of Mr. Minister's answers were: « There is nothing different, indeed» ; « Nothing changes from that point of view»; « There is no extinction of DRAPs »; « There is no relocation of services»; « No relocation of people». Now, the journalist, already desperate, asks: "But then what changes? And the answer was: "The regional director is passing on to the vice-president of the CCDRs. Do not keep on seeking. ” "Azar of the Távoras" : 24 hours later, no longer was that true! So nothing changes — nothing changes! — in agriculture, including what should be changed, which was the Minister. I end up as I began: agriculture deserved more respect. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u189	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are three notes that seem to us relevant in this debate and a previous issue. The previous question is that we have a proposer of this agenda which, in fact — to quote itself a few minutes ago — presented an initiative which is not operational at all. Therefore, there is no concrete proposal, essentially because it fails to reflect on the real problems that agriculture is facing. There are three things that we need to take into account, if we are to dignify agricultural activity, agriculture. First of all, we need to take into account all the confusion that the Ministry of Agriculture has been guided by its own protection. I say that these confusions need to be resolved because farmers, particularly small farmers, need to know what they are counting on in their day-to-day lives, which is not happening in part because the Ministry clearly is in some way always waiting for the CAP to come. Without the CAP, the Ministry does absolutely nothing and then those who wait for their dignity end up being family farming. The second point to be taken into account in this debate — which the proposer does not address in his draft resolution, despite the other projects — is that it is important to realize that agricultural production is voted on by large farmers, large producers, who are crushing small farmers. We have a common agricultural policy which has been directed for decades to large producers, in a model, from our point of view, wrong, intensive and superintensive culture which is clearly a predatory model not only of labour rights and human rights, but also of the environment itself. Then we have the other side of the problem, which is also not mentioned by the proposer of this agenda, which has to do with the very serious situation we have in our country and which, for small farmers, is too obvious: distribution. We have large distribution groups that monopolize purchases to producers and sales to consumers at the same time. In practice, therefore, poor prices are being established for producers and luxury prices for consumers. In the middle of this, no one wins, except the large distribution and the large producers. This is part of the problem, in particular, of small agriculture and family farming — the overwhelming majority in our country — so if we do not want to look at the way in which the large distribution, which is checking the small farming, works, we will not be able to dignify that same agriculture. Thus, this matter is clearly lacking in the draft resolution that was submitted by the Czech Republic, although others refer, in particular, to the CFP, in its draft law, which we will follow, as the draft law of the NAP. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u191	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing three initiatives, two of which — the draft laws of the CFP and the NAP — affect the reality of what the rural world and agriculture are and what they can be. This is because, indeed, family farming, small and medium-sized farms, often in the water line of viability, can be supported and can be a comparative advantage for our agriculture, including in the vegetable sector. Therefore, we can disagree about the details, but they are projects that are worth passing to the discussion in the field of specialty. Then we have a speech on the side of the Arrival, already several days ago, which summons a ghost.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u193	Don't talk about Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u194	They want to end with the Ministry of Agriculture and then say: "We need to dignify the Ministry of Agriculture. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, we may have many criticisms to make to the Minister of Agriculture — the Free Minister certainly has, I do not have time to talk about it, because I have one minute and I needed 10 — but, in relation to this idea of the Enough to create a problem that does not exist to then invent a solution, which is not known whether to create a 'Ministry of State and Agriculture', which does not exist either, we can say one thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u195	It was CAP, it wasn't enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u196	She, imaginatively, is, but «it is not meat or fish», she does not eat and does not pull the cart. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u197	Mr Rui Tavares, a few humorous jokes also do well and help, above all, to calm the environment. They are always very constructive, because they have an important composition of expurging the emotions of the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u198	There are people who have no sense of humor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u199	We therefore give the floor, now, without any intent of expuration, to the Member of the PS Francisco Rocha Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, the majority of the benches, especially the benches on the right, are presented to this debate with a parallax error — a gross error of parallax! — because they speak, speak, say, that the Ministry of Agriculture and that the agri-food complex are under the devil's view, and she does not exist after all. Why isn't there? Oh, my God! Because, according to the cotton test in relation to the main indicators of the food sector and Portuguese agriculture, fortunately, they are well and are recommended. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] For RDP 2020, the implementation rate is 78 %, the commitment rate is 95 % and the full implementation rate by 2025 will be 100 %. They say: « Ah, but for the Socialist Party, the agricultural sector is not strategic. » Mr. PSD members, the former parliamentary leader of the PSD, former MP Rui Rio, said in a public interview that agriculture was not a priority, that it was considered a sector like the others and that it was not a priority sector for him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u201	They don't remember anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u202	I am glad that the honourable Member of the Liberal Initiative recalled the 8 % contribution of agriculture to our exports. We continue to export more and more, we continue to open up more and more markets and continue to have greater added value in our products. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u203	I believe that we are in a position to move forward towards the closure, which is up to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, which, as long as it has two minutes at its disposal, makes up the 14 seconds that will drag the debate. Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão has the floor to intervene in this closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival brought to this House the debate on the rural world, on agriculture, on representatives of the primary sector. I remember all of you. Members that the primary sector is called 'primary' because it must come first. « If the field does not plant, the city does not eat. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u206	I have heard all the political parties who have brought their recommendations and I want to say to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that to some extent I follow her legislative initiative, but I can still remember that you and your party have supported one of the loss of competences of DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary), of the Ministry of Agriculture, for the Ministry of the Environment, and now these same powers have already jumped to the CCDRs. I would like to have listened to the honourable Member talking about this leap of competence between the Ministries. I would like to remind Members Alma Rivera of the PCP and Isabel Pires of the Left Block, who supported this Minister in the management governments, when she is now being called "incompetent" throughout the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u207	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u208	Therefore, your parties are responsible for this Minister being in government since 2019. I'd like to invite the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, Mrs Dora Brandão and Mr Francisco Rocha, go to the next demonstration of the CAP with this speech, saying that it is all right and taking these numbers. See, Mr Francisco Rocha : « Farmers against the incompetence of those who govern us». The speaker displayed an image of a demonstration, with the phrase he gave. Read the farmers' band well and what they say. Indeed, there is a lot of dystopia and a lot of lack of competence in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture is without technical competence, it is without political capacity, it is a vacant seat and a complete disorientation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is it: however, Portugal is more dependent on foreign purchases, as much as in Socrates time, because the trade deficit is 13 % of national GDP. We need to go back to 2008 to have this degree of external dependence. In the meantime, I recall the words of a socialist who, at the time, held the office of the Presidency of the Republic and who, if it were today, would certainly repeat his words: "I have had enough of Santana..." — here we could put "António Costa" — "...as Prime Minister, I was leaving the country drifting away, but it was not an adhum decision. No one likes to dissolve Parliament and I made that decision in just over 48 hours. Today, I would do the same, because it was necessary. Do not keep on seeking. ” I stress that the resignation of the former Secretary of State could well also be a reason for the dissolution of this Parliament. Unfortunately, the current President of the Republic has not yet had enough of Antonio Costa. But «the people are serene» and, by Portugal, the bench of the Arrival, in this House, will never shut up nor let themselves be intimidated by red lines, by sanitary fences or ideological walls, which we will one by one! It's all said, Mr. President! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u209	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the third item on the agenda. At the fourth point, we will generally appreciate Law Projects Nos 354 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, expressly conferring on the control of proportionality in the scrutiny of the legislative initiatives of the European Union, 225 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amend Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August establishing the participation of ministerial officials in the European debates in plenary session, 453 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Sending by the Government of the transposition tables of European directives to the Assembly of the Republic, 519 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Sending by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal the position to be adopted by Portugal at the European Council, 526 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Provides for the participation of members of the competent government on the subject in the debates on sectoral matters within the Committee on European Affairs, 530 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August by assigning the prior hearing to the beginning of functions by the Assembly of the Republic at the time of appointment of the permanent representatives of Portugal to the European Union, 531 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, conferring the duty of the Government to appear before each ministerial meeting of the Council of the European Union, before the relevant parliamentary committees, 532 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, describing the information to be made available to the Assembly of the Republic, relating to the process of transposition of the European directives, 533 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, assigning the previous hearing by the Assembly of the Republic to candidates for membership of the European Commission appointed by the Government of Portugal, 535 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the election of the Assembly of the Republic on the process of building the European Union and in particular on the action of the Government within the Council of the European Union and each of its formations by amending Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 536 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the publication in the Journal of the Republic of the Directives and of another right derived from the European Union and international organisations to which Portugal is a party by amending Law No 74 / 98 of 11 November and 547 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union, extending and updating the parliamentary monitoring and scrutiny mechanisms. To present the draft laws of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great pleasure that today I see more than a dozen bills on European affairs to be discussed. This is due to the fact that the Liberal Initiative has scheduled this matter for today and has, in recent months, submitted a number of initiatives relating to the scrutiny of the European Union's construction process, which has led to other parties joining and even copying them, but this is part of the democratic process. The Liberal Initiative presents four proposals. The first concerns the mandatory dispatch by the Government of the tables of transposition of European directives to the Assembly so that Parliament can vote for the correct transposition, or not, with more information. The second refers to the explicit consecration of the analysis of the principle of proportionality in the scrutiny of initiatives, because citizens' rights must always be respected. The third concerns the sending of the position to Portugal by the Government at the European Council for each item on the agenda, so that we do not have what is happening almost every month, which is that we do not know what the Government is defending on several important European issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u211	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u212	Finally, the fourth proposal concerns the obligation of the Minister responsible for European affairs to participate in the European debates here, in plenary, or even the Prime Minister. It is a government choice which is the minister responsible for European affairs and Parliament should not be harmed by that. at a time when European legislation is increasingly important in all countries, it is important, more than ever, to strengthen both the government and transparency in the European process, and that is why we have presented these four initiatives and scheduled this debate for today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u213	To present the legislative initiative of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : António Costa, our Prime Minister, as a citizen, has the clear objective of going to Europe. We know, however, that the President of the Republic has already warned several times: if this personal objective were to be achieved, we would certainly have the dissolution of Parliament and early elections. The government would fall. Today, we know, as a result of the polls, that the right would win the elections and that the arrival would inevitably be part of this government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] António Costa wants to control Europol ( European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation ) and Interpol ( International Criminal Police Organization ), and has succeeded. António Costa wants to keep the door open between Europe and the position of Prime Minister and, as such, assumes the role of 'Minister for European Affairs', appointing a Secretary of State to advise him to take up and bring messages from Europe. Internally, Antonio Costa treats European affairs with great contempt, but outside, he fills his chest and tries to speak of Europe as a great European statesman. The PS and its successive governments have always treated Europe this way, they have always put Portugal in a submissive position—it is historic, it has come since 1986, with Mário Soares. The protection of European affairs has shown too much fragility in the field of issues, limiting the role of the Secretary of State, in the statutory hearings, explaining what was said there and bringing the message coming from Brussels. Recently questioned by the Arrival, about the measures to be taken in the fight against higher interest rates, Mr. Secretary of State said « will never be my role in pressuring the European Central Bank ( ECB ) ». However, a few months after the start of the increase in interest rates, the Secretary of State realized that Europe has pressured and, although we recognize that the European Central Bank is not political — or that it should not be political! — it would be wrong if sovereign nations could not try to defend their citizens. The Government constantly demonstrates, through its Secretary of State, a position of « tudologist», because it understands everything, it speaks of all matters, but in a very superficial way. More specifically, we realized the problem that was when this Parliament did not know how Europe would buy the Pfizer vaccines and later we learned that we were already obliged to spend 100 million euros within a month and a half. Yesterday, we saw the news around the vaccines and we realized that Portugal bought nine vaccines for each citizen with the responsibility of the previous government. It is precisely this internal behaviour — which differs from external behaviour — that we want to highlight, and we can give more examples: Portugal, under the protection of the Socialist Party, has constantly said that it is in favour of the International Criminal Court, and so do we. However, internally, the Socialist Party cries out: «Alas, Jesus, that the International Criminal Court cannot apply penalties! " or « In Portugal, no penalties may be applied as applicable in the International Criminal Court, in particular that of life imprisonment ». We have recently heard Ursula von der Leyen's statements, which clearly say that there is a problem with regard to immigration, which has been detected by Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation in the External Borders ), with more than 30 000 reported cases of border violations and more than 294 000 asylum applications in Europe which are unanswered. Outside, the PS recognizes the problem, but internally the PS says that it is populism of the Arrival and that only we talk about the matter, because there is no problem with immigration. In fact, the arrival defends a strong Europe, but a Europe of strong, independent, sovereign and with identity, with cultures and traditions that must be maintained and respected. Respect for the European Union is not limited only to placing the flag of the European Parliament in a national parliament. Respect is about discussing and preparing the national presentation, and it is here, in this area of sovereignty, that is Parliament, that we should discuss it. We must prepare the Council of Europe meetings by extending the methodology that is already taking place, precisely at the meetings of the Council of Europe in which Portugal participates and where the discussions are thematic. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of Portugal's participation in Europe and in the future of the European Union deserves more participation by Parliament. The PS also advocates more participation by citizens in the construction of Europe, so it cannot lead — and I believe it will not — the participation of Parliament in this process. The number of proposals discussed today shows that there is a need to revisit this issue. We believe, and I reaffirm, that this amendment that we make to the drafting — that is because the only thing we are doing, by including the member of the Government on the subject, which is the only thing we have changed, is indeed a change to the drafting — must be approved by this House, demonstrating a spirit of pluralism of opinion and accountability of Parliament itself. The Council of Europe — yes, the Council of Europe — is what we are talking about. Europe changed in 1986. At the time we joined the EEC (the European Economic Community ), but over time the geopolitics, the needs and opportunities of Europe are different. Everything has changed, but Portugal remains far out of this change and tries centralism, within the parties of the government sphere, not respecting democracy and plurality. We want a strong Europe and what we are proposing here is that Portugal clearly defends out there a strong Europe, with a strong Portugal, with identity and democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u215	What about time, Mr. President? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u216	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiatives of the Free House. [[Pause.]] I'm asking for a little less noise in the room. In fact, I used tolerance in relation to the previous speaker's speech, since the volume of sound was a little too high.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a lot of people who want to present the debate about European integration as a binomy between federalism and sovereignty, but that is not true. The real debate on the European Union is between democracy and opacity. If we inject European construction into democracy, both nationally and at European level, we will have more sovereignty on several scales, which is what we want with the European project. The Portuguese vote in legislators for the Assembly of the Republic ( RA ) and vote in legislators for the European Parliament. However, the legislators who elect, at European level, have no legislative initiative. The legislative initiative is the European Commission, where Portugal has a Commissioner or a Commissioner appointed by the Government. The proposal for the Book is that the candidate or candidate to be a Commissioner, appointed by the Portuguese Government, have a prior hearing in the Assembly of the Republic, thus bringing to this House more democratic responsibility at national level. However, there are more bizarre things that arise from the history of the construction of the European project itself and which mean that in the Council of the European Union — and not in the Council of Europe, which is another institution, which does not have to do with the Treaties of the European Union — much of the legislative work, budgetary negotiation, is done every day, not by legislators, but by diplomats, that is, the permanent representatives of the States. It is true that the Ministers then go to meetings of their respective formations of the Council of the European Union, but we will already go there with a proposal in this area. The Free Paper proposes that permanent representatives to the Council of the European Union, appointed by the Government, be heard in the Assembly of the Republic, before the start of their duties, and also have a regular hearing, which may take place, for example, each new presidency of the European Union. The Free House also proposes that ministers and ministers, immediately before or immediately after the meetings of their formation, in the Council of the European Union, also come to this House — to the relevant committees, or in a joint hearing, with the Committee on European Affairs — to tell us about the strategy the Portuguese Government intends to follow at these meetings. in this context, we will download this project to the Commission, without a vote, because we believe there is interest in adding contributions from various political groups. The European project can and should be democratised, there is no contradiction between doing so at national level and at European level at the same time, because citizens always win in every case.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u218	To present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP, as a European party that is, advocates greater involvement of people in the design and construction of the European Union, which is necessarily due to the creation of new transparency mechanisms and a greater parliamentary scrutiny of our country's participation in the European Union. That is why, in this debate, we have brought two major proposals: on the one hand, we argue that the Diário da República should publish the directives and regulations, and other rights deriving from the European Union and other international organisations which Portugal is part of. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We recall that despite this right to apply directly in our domestic legal order pursuant to Article 8 ( 3 ). the Constitution, its publication only occurs, incomprehensiblely, through the Official Journal of the European Union. This proposal, which we have brought here, has already been defended, including by Mr. Professor Jorge Miranda, who also said that the current model does not guarantee full respect for the right of citizens to know all the rights in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u220	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you are not turning your back on the speaker, because I think it is a lack of courtesy. Secondly, I ask you to try to speak as you should — because you also work in the Plenary when you are not listening to the speakers! — in other words, so that the speaker or the speaker, in the use of the word, can be made clear. in this sense, please proceed, Mrs Deputy, and I apologize for the interruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the other hand, the NAP defends and brings a proposal to this end that there is greater transparency on the position of the Government in the European Council and in the various formations of the European Council of the European Union. We cannot accept that our country takes decisions which are unknown to this House, with some shocking examples, and that it defends, for example, the lobby of the transport of live animals and animal cruelty, in European agriculture, without this Parliament being consulted or even informed. Nor can we continue to accept that there will be European debates on the blind, without being aware of the position of our country on any of the points on the agenda. We therefore propose that there be more transparency through the obligation to disclose Portugal's positions in the Council of the European Union before and after. We also propose that European policy become more relevant in the parliamentary committees, with a debate with the ministers, in each committee, at the beginning of each European Semester, on the hot subjects under discussion in the Council of the European Union, thus contributing to the deepening, transparency and participation of our country in this institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u222	To present the PS initiative, Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming all the parliamentary groups and the single Members who have presented the 11 bills that we are discussing today and who aim to strengthen the role of the Assembly of the Republic in monitoring, assessing and pronouncing, within the framework of the European construction process, in addition to the powers that have been added to the national parliaments by the Treaty of Lisbon. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it quite positive that five of the eight political forces represented in the House have put forward legislative initiatives, a sign that we interpret as a clear desire to strengthen the European dimension in national policies. The European integration of Portugal, operated in 1986, after a long process of accession of almost ten years, and an increased transitional period for the agricultural sector, of more than seven, constituted, with the exception of 25 April 1974, the largest structural change that the country has experienced in many decades and which continues to deserve a broad national consensus which this House well mirrors. The major challenges facing us — from pandemics and natural disasters to climate change, the new energy paradigm and the issues of security and defence that Russia's aggression to Ukraine has put on the table — impose on a country with our scale the integration into an international organisation such as the European Union, which, in addition to its economic and social dimension, represents the geopolitical space where human rights, individual freedoms, security and justice have an expression on a global scale. The strengthening of the parliamentary transversality of this theme is therefore evidence that does not require major justifications. The PS Parliamentary Group is therefore in favour of a more in-depth discussion of all the proposals put forward, in order to find as much consensus as possible about realistic and feasible solutions that are in line with the objectives that we all share, I am sure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In some cases similar to the proposals put forward by the Socialist Party, some initiatives of the Free and the Liberal Initiative deserve our particular sympathy. Even other proposals from other parliamentary groups could be improved in the field of expertise, once inconsistencies were removed and some lack of clarity about some concepts, such as between the European Council and the Council of the European Union, as the intervention of the arrival recently left quite clear. Focusing on the proposals of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to emphasise its four main objectives. First, harmonise Law No 43/2006 with the Treaty of Lisbon as regards the scrutiny of subsidiarity and proportionality of regulatory acts arising from the European institutions. Second, clarify the RA position as regards Article 233 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which relates to the rules for the election of Members of the European Parliament in Portugal. Third, to enhance transparency in the access of Members to information, by establishing the obligation to communicate to the Assembly of the Republic by the Government of the tables of correspondence of the procedures for the transposition of directives following its communication to the European Commission. Finally, the obligation to intervene by the sectorally competent parliamentary committees is expressed when it comes to matters relating to the reserved competence of the Assembly of the Republic, as well as seeking to fine-tune the terms in which they may speak in relation to the report adopted by the Committee on European Affairs. In this matter, which has to do with our internal functioning, I insist on the advantage of as much consensus as possible. While this does not seem to be the will of the majority of the proponents of the initiatives under discussion today, the PS Parliamentary Group reiterates its willingness to bring down the committee without a vote of all the proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u224	Mr Bruno Nunes wants to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u225	Mr. President, thank you very much. It is only to ask the Bureau to distribute Article 4. the Law No 43 / 2006, of 25 August 2006. I believe that it will not be necessary to distribute the draft law that has been submitted by the Arrival, because the only thing we are asking for is an amendment to the wording and therefore there is no doubt about the role of the European Council and the Council of Europe, because we do not even change that part of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u226	But is this an appeal to the Bureau? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u227	The law is clear and refers to the Council of Europe and the only thing that has arrived at the proposal... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... — just calm down, listen a little bit, okay? — was the phrase 'competent on the basis of the matter'. All the rest of the articulate was already in the law, it was not changed by us. [[L. Protests.]] Mr Rui Tavares, when he was in Europe he also listened more calmly. Be careful! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u228	Mr. Deputies, the law is known, it is on the digital platform and, therefore, they are reminded of its terms. Mr Capoulas Santos, would you also like to speak to the Bureau about the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u229	Mr President, I would like to make a small intervention, since I still have time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u230	Then you will have to do your best to wait for the order, because before we will have the pleasure of listening to Mr Paul Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u231	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, this agenda item calls on us to reflect on the role of the Assembly of the Republic in the various aspects of European construction. I would like to recall that the Assembly of the Republic is taking a cross-sectional step in its mission to monitor the government's activity in European affairs. It does the scrutiny of the European initiatives which, of course, it is our responsibility, because of the impact on our national legal order and also through the interparliamentary participations with the other parliaments of the 27 countries that make up the Union, interact and compete for the European construction project. All this under the hat of Law No 43 / 2006, which has changed several times according to the natural evolution of treaties and the evolution of the institutions themselves. The PSD believes that they have aroused the will to present these projects that we are discussing, essentially, two reasons: firstly, the manifest inability of, recently, and in particular, Mr. Prime Minister, at the pre-European Council meetings, to clarify this House that Portugal effectively defends, what it will defend and what we want for our future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister does so in his own way in his political capacity to speak much and say little — it is a prerogative he has! — but, in fact, in the way we have organized the law, which allows and obliges this Parliament to know precisely the position of the Pre-Council Country, in fact, the House, most of the time, is without this information. We believe that the mandatory initiatives of prior knowledge of the position expressed here by some projects are a direct consequence in this way that Mr. Prime Minister has not systematically clarified, as is his duty, the House in recent times. The second aspect, which cannot fail to be relevant, is that there are, of course, concepts that are being adjusted, which are evolving — the concept of subsidiarity, which is dear to us, the concept of proportionality — and which are used in the functioning of, for example, the Committee on European Affairs, on the subject and in other matters. It is never too clear, overcome and decline in the regulations of the committees, so that it is uniform in our way of proceeding, working and expressing. However, there are also two aspects that we want to raise. It is important, for example, at the level of prior knowledge of the detailed position of the Government in the European Council, to have sensitivity and wisdom also to realize that, in certain circumstances, this position does not take advantage of the country because, if there is going to be a negotiation, too much rigidity of position may not be the best. This without prejudice to all the information must be provided, as is required, to this House. I cannot but mention two other aspects: the obligation or proposal of the sectoral minister on the subject of coming to the Chamber, where matters of the Council of the European Union are dealt with in certain matters, in our view, is important, may be useful, but we have doubts that compulsoryness is beneficial in all circumstances. Also in the case of the proposal for the Book, which speaks of the fact that our representative in REPER ( Permanent Representation of Portugal to the European Union ), let us say that he must have a prior hearing in Parliament, I remember that in relation to comparative law in Spain, this does not happen as in Portugal. We indicate an ambassador at the top of the career and therefore it is a choice that, by this criterion, let us say, of necessity, in some way already guarantees representativeness with the conditions required. Therefore, and finally, the PSD understands the motivations, it attaches much of the more widespread motivation to the inability of the Prime Minister to clarify the House in the pre-Council debates and therefore, in fact, fails us, this information. But the PSD is open to a European construction process which is also normative, which is dynamic, which is constant and, surely, in the field of expertise, will contribute to improving the role of supervision and the obligations which the Assembly of the Republic has before the country and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u232	We will now benefit from the speech of Mr Capoulas Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my request to intervene had in fact to do with the intervention of Mr Bruno Nunes of the Republic of Norway. When there was little emphasis on the rostrum on the need to have as much consensus as possible on these proposals, since it was about matters of our own internal functioning, and recognizing the merit of all of them, I suggested, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, that all of them should go down to the committee without a vote, since some of them, even with merit, were ill with difficulty in the field of concepts or some inaccuracies. And the most eloquent example was the one I mentioned and has to do with the proposal of the Arrival, namely the proposal for an amendment to Article 4 (2). the, in which it proposes that, and I shall read : « it is discussed in the Committee on European Affairs, with the presence of a member of the competent government on the subject, to be held before each European Council. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, the relevant ministers have no seat in the European Council. So here is a manifest confusion between what the European Council is and what the Council of the European Union is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] In addition to the fact that to further fuel the confusion, Mr Bruno Nunes spoke of the Council of Europe, which has nothing to do with any of the European institutions. It is therefore precisely in the name of this clarity and the search for a consensus so that the rules of operation, which concern everyone, can bring greater transversality to the European theme in this Parliament, which I once again call on all the proposers to bring the proposals down to the committee, without a vote, so that we can improve all the proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u234	We will therefore be pleased to hear Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With Bill No. 245 / X / 1. the, in 2006, the CFP launched the legislative process which substantially modified the follow-up framework by the Assembly of the Republic of the European Union process - the so-called « European construction process », as set out in the law - and gave rise to the law currently in force, incorporating the proposals which several other parties subsequently submitted. This law is to which the initiatives under discussion now intend to change: Law No. 43 / 2006. Now, in this regard, we begin by saying that, on the part of the CFP, there is, of course, availability to revisit, update and improve the drafting of the law. In fact, seeing well the various bills that are in appreciation, they are 11, but could be two or three, because essentially most of the texts point in the same direction in the essential part. We are now not going to make considerations about originals and copies and about who knows how to copy well or about who copies badly. Then there is one or two nonsense with which it is not worth spending much time, as if the Internet, where the Journal of the Republic comes, is not the same as where the Official Journal of the European Union comes from. We're not gonna stop about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u236	You have nothing to say, you say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u237	What needs to be changed in the intervention regime of the Assembly of the Republic, of course, is intended to give more information to the Assembly of the Republic — very well! — further possibilities for the proclamation of the Assembly of the Republic, clarifying aspects such as the proportionality of legislation — nothing against! — on more ministers in parliamentary committees, before or after Council meetings — sometimes yes, not always or never. Keep your calendar? No, thank you! A short time ago, in the implementation of the law in force, and even at the initiative of the Liberal Initiative, the Minister of Finance came to a meeting of the European Committee on European Affairs to discuss what was under discussion at the ECOFIN ( EU Council of Ministers for Economics and Finance ) and the European Union's fiscal policy in this area. Therefore, it is a matter of knowing and applying the devices that the law already provides to the Assembly of the Republic, with a concern: that it is not even more consecrated a sort of ritual of procedural formalism, to the detriment of questions of substance of political options. This has been the problem with political options within the framework of the European Union and the Assembly of the Republic in the Union's legislative processes. It will, of course, be mandatory, indispensable, a thorough and rigorous debate on the Single European Sky process, for example, in which there is a new wave of attack, in particular by the European Commission, and the Assembly of the Republic is essential to intervene, as I have said in the past, in order to defend the national interest, in which the CFP has committed itself particularly and we have been able to gain cause for our country and for national sovereignty. Fundamental problem: the more European construction progresses, the more the Assembly of the Republic, as a legislator, refers to the role of mere pollinator, even if some want it to be a sort of implacable pollinator. It is that even with the orders and notebooks of charges that appear with the famous institutional reforms of the Union, the idea that such scrutiny will, after all, be translated into being seen through. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u238	To close the debate, Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking all the Members who have participated in this debate and also by noting the absence of the Left Block in this debate — a sort of boycott to the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u240	Let's vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u241	Now that the European elections are near, I hope you will have the courage to tell your young electorate that they want Portugal to leave the euro. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[BE's protests.]] The number of initiatives submitted here by different political spectrum parties shows the need to change the current law in different subjects. At a time when European legislation is increasingly important in all countries, it is important to strengthen the government's scrutiny and transparency of the European process. That is why we will make virtually all the initiatives discussed here today so that we can do a good job of consensus in committee. The Liberal Initiative will continue to bring European affairs to the debate in this Parliament whenever possible and will always make a closer scrutiny of the government's work in Europe. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[BE's protests and CH's counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u242	The concission of the speech of the honourable Member made it impossible for the minutes of the procedure to be taken to warn the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to announce the voting period. So let's do it with the possible tramp. [[Continuation of BE protests and CH counterprotests.]] I ask the services to operate the system for the verification of quorum. [[Continuation of BE protests and CH counterprotests.]] The gentlemen. Members can already register and if they do so in silence until they are more committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u243	But it's less funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u244	I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u245	I couldn't register, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u246	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum, so we shall then proceed to the vote. We start with the Vote Project No 265 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of José Athayde Carvalhosa. To read the draft vote, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « José Filipe de Mendonça Athayde de Carvalhosa died last February 13 at the age of 86. Militant of the PSD since 1982 and member of its National Council between 1992 and 1995, his life was marked by a wide political, civic and professional journey, each of which was guided by an example of correctness and excellence. Among other functions he was a member of the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon between 1983 - 1994 and 1998 - 2013 and president of the PSD board in the Municipal Assembly. He was mayor of the City Council of Lisbon between 1994 and 1998 and was the last President of the Board of Freguesia of São Francisco Xavier, who held office between 2002 and 2013. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the Fourth Parliament, between 1985 and 1987. He was also a member of the Diocesan Directorate and the National Directorate of Catholic University Youth ( JUC ), from 1958 to 1960, and a founding member and leader, until 1980, of the National Secretariat of Associations of Fathers ( SNAP ). Born on 2 March 1936, graduated from the Technical Higher Institute in Mechanical Engineering, he began his career in 1966 at the Lisbon Refinery of SACOR, subsequently nationalized and integrated in Petrogal, where he served as Director-General of the Boards, between 1979 and 1995, and as a voice of the Supervisory Board, between 1977 and 1980. He was Administrator of EDP, between 1987 and 1997, and of NORPEDIP, the Society for Industrial Development, between 1989 and 1990, President of the Board of Directors of CENEL, Electricity of the Centre, S.A. , between 1994 and 1997, of HIDROCENEL, Energy of the Centre, S.A. , between 1994 and 1997, of SÃVIDA — Supported Medicine, S.A., 1994 and 1997, and of DESREAL, Regional Development of Albufeiras, S.A.. , between 1995 and 1997. I also spoke in society, acting as Administrator of the Sport Foundation, between 1995 and 1996, Vice-President of the Council of Founders of the Foundation of Youth, from 1996 to 1997, and Chairman of the Tax Council of FUNDETEC, the Fund for the Development of the Education of Engineering and Electrotechnical Technology, Electronics and Computers, from 1995 to 1997. Those who lived with him do not forget José Athayde Carvalhosa — the politician, the professional and the human reference. The PSD Parliamentary Group addresses the most significant feelings towards the family in question, which is associated with the Assembly of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the relatives of José Athayde Carvalhosa here present, to whom, on behalf of the whole Parliament, address the most sympathy. I invite you all to keep a minute of silence, in honor of our former colleague. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 540 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Establishs the recurrent and intermittent disability certificate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u251	Mr President, it is to announce that in the end we will make an oral statement on the vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u252	All right. That'll be it. We shall generally vote on Bill No. o 544 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotion of the rights of people with endometriosis or adenomiosis through strengthening their access to health care and the creation of a system of justified failures at work. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 326 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrates on 1 March as the national day of endometriosis and adenomiosis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 340 / XV / 1a(PAN) — It recommends that the Government extend its participation in the examinations and treatments of endometriosis and/or adenomiosis. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 341 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the rights of patients diagnosed with endometriosis and/or adenomiosis. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 342 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national strategy to combat endometriosis and adenomiosis and evaluates the allocation of chronic disease status to patients diagnosed with endometriosis and/or adenomiosis. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 393 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement the national strategy to combat endometriosis and adenomiosis and create a disease research grant. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 425 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Access to diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis and adenomiosis. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 430 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government establish a national fertility support plan. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u253	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u254	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u255	Mr President, to inform us that we will present a written statement of vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u256	Be registered. The general vote on draft resolution No 433 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Programme of response to endometriosis and adenomiosis. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 437 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national strategy to combat endometriosis and adenomiosis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 9. the Commission. We then generally vote for Law No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the scheme of a set of tax benefits. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and abstentions against the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] The proposal goes down to 5. the Commission. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 414 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the necessary conditions for the collection by the municipalities of revenue in the context of the economic exploitation of the hydroelectric uses in them. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] The project goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 492 / XV / 1. a (BE) — No exemption from IMI to buildings and constructions of dams and power-producing plants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 521 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 416 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the collection and settlement of tax benefits due in connection with the disposal of six dams in the River Douro basin by EDP to Engie. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 428 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government ensure the collection and settlement of taxes due by the sale of six dams by EDP to Engie and that the resulting tax revenue is used for the benefit of local populations. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u258	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u259	Mr President, I, Mrs Berta Nunes and Mr Edite Estrela and Mr Sobrinho Teixeira will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u260	All right, Mr. Deputies. The draft resolution No 366 / XV / 1 is then voted. a (CH) — The dignity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 538 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates a line of financial support for the implementation of a national programme to support and encourage the production of vegetable crops. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions against the IL and the CFP.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 546 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Access to the title of recognition of the Statute of Family Agriculture and Family Agriculture Valuation Programme and Rural World. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] It follows the Bill No 354 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, expressly conferring on the control of proportionality in the scrutiny of the legislative initiatives of the European Union. I am interrupting because during the debate, the intention was to submit a request for a discharge to the committee, without a vote, of all these diplomas relating to European affairs. I wonder whether the PS Parliamentary Group wants to formalise this request or whether we continue to vote. Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, tell me about your justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u261	It was more hope than anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u262	Mr. President, hope remains. The will is that all diplomas could be lowered. It is not possible, only the authors of the proposals can do so clearly at this time. Although this was the will of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it seems to me that it is not feasible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u263	Therefore, I imagine that the PS refrains from calling down the committee without a vote on its own project and we will proceed with the votes. We will then generally vote for Bill No. 354 / XV / 1. a ( IL). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 4. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 225 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amend Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August establishing the participation of ministerial officials in the European debates in plenary session. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, PCP and BE.]] We continue to vote, in general, on Bill No. 453 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Sending by the Government of the transposition tables of European directives to the Assembly of the Republic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 4. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 519 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Sending by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal the position to be adopted by Portugal at the European Council. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 526 / XV / 1. a (CH) — envisages the participation of members of the competent Government in the debates on sectoral matters in the Committee on European Affairs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, BE and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 530 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amend Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August a prior hearing by the Assembly of the Republic at the time of the appointment of the permanent representatives of Portugal to the European Union and their regular hearing during their duties. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] We voted for an application by L requesting the European Affairs Committee to be discharged without a 60-day vote of Bill No 531 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, laying down the duty of the Government to attend each ministerial meeting of the Council of the European Union, before the relevant parliamentary committees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the general vote of Bill No. 532 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, describing the information to be made available to the Assembly of the Republic, relating to the process of transposition of the European Directives. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 4. the Commission. We then generally vote for Bill No. 533 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, conferring the prior hearing by the Assembly of the Republic on candidates to a member of the European Commission appointed by the Government of Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, IL and the CFP.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 535 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the elections of the Assembly of the Republic on the process of building the European Union and in particular on the action of the Government within the Council of the European Union and each of its formations by amending Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, IL, NAP and L and abstentions against the PSD and BE.]] The general vote of Bill No 536 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Ensures the publication in the Journal of the Republic of the Directives and of another right deriving from the European Union and international organisations to which Portugal is a party, amending Law No 74 / 98 of 11 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] We then vote in general on Law No 547 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union, extending and updating the parliamentary monitoring and scrutiny mechanisms. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] The project goes down to 4. the Commission. Let's now vote 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2023. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, on the Proposal for a Law No 30 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2161 on consumer protection. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the CH, IL, NAP and L were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and PSD.]] Mrs. Susana Amador, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u264	Mr President, it is in order to request, in relation to the last vote, the waiver of the final wording and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u265	If there is no objection, this oral request is approved. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, on the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish certification rules for the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of inland waterway vessels for transposition of Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 2397, 2020 / 12 and 2021 / 1233. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the PSD and with abstentions from CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u266	Mrs. Susana Amador is asking for the same word as before?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u267	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u268	It is an urgent matter for the people who intervene in the operations of vessels in inland waters. [[Laughing.]] If there is no objection, this oral request is approved. Mrs. Members shall be voting on 33 to 35 and 37 to 40 for the plenary meetings of 8, 20 and 21 July and 14, 15, 16 and 21 September 2022, and paragraph 36, corresponding to the meeting of the Standing Commission on 7 September 2022. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We still have an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will be read by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u269	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Juiz de Trabajo de Braga — Juiz 2, Case No 6138 / 20.0T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Soares ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u270	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then hear the oral statement by Mr Rui Rocha, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, on the vote on Bill No 540 / XV / 1. a ( IL).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u271	Mr President: The Liberal Initiative brought to this House a proposal dealing with a situation of injustice, which is the situation of all Portuguese who suffer from conditions which imply incapacity for recurrent and intermittent work. In view of the current legal framework, these persons may suffer in their salary, in their remuneration, a serious consequence, which is the loss of several days or weeks of remuneration, because the social security scheme does not provide that they are protected when there is this profile of recurrence and intermittent of their disabilities. The PS had a particular responsibility in this regard, which is the particular responsibility of having an absolute majority. However, this absolute majority cannot be used only in order to prevent scrutiny, impose its will, prevent the hearing of Ministers and members of the Government; this absolute majority brings increased responsibility and it was in this sense that it should be exercised. What happened here with the vote we have seen is that the PS has postponed the protection and proper framework of these situations. There were only two reasons to vote against : or to understand that these diseases, these conditions do not have the profile that was presented here, or to understand that these people did not deserve an appropriate framework to preserve their financial autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u272	IL has also voted against other proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u273	The PS systematically prefers to treat these things through care. This is not the vision of the Liberal Initiative. The PS postponed a solution that was fair, that was of social sensitivity and should have been ensured today. The path will be in that direction. Time runs for people who have these conditions. The responsibility of the PS is to have postponed a solution which, I repeat, was fair and appropriate. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u274	We will now proceed to the reading of the dossier, for which I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u275	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President to the initiatives that I am reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u276	Mrs. Secretary, only one minute. I ask the press bench to make little noise, if you don't mind. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u277	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Resolution Projects Nos 486 / XV / 1 have been introduced. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 487 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 492, 493, 494 and 495 / XV / 1. a ( IL) as well as Bill No 575 / XV / 1. a ( IL). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-17.u278	We are thus at the end of our agenda. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday for 3 p.m. on the agenda set by the PSD, which includes the joint discussion of the following initiatives : Bill No. 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Changes in external assessment of learning: introduction of measurement tests in 4. it's 6. the years; Resolution No 434 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — recommends that the Government adopt a set of urgent measures in the education sector; Resolution No 454 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Desburocratize : return teachers to teaching; Resolution No 455 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — For a greater scope of the number of students receiving school social action and for the unburocratization in their allocation; Draft Resolution No 456 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the effectiveness, duration and financing of learning recovery measures developed autonomously by public schools; Bill No. 575 / XV / 1. a (IL) — carrying out measurement tests in the final years of each basic education cycle; Bill No. 576 / XV / 1. a (L) — lays down rules for the establishment of groups and classes of pre-school, education and training establishments and for the period of operation of pre-school and educational establishments; Resolution No 492 / XV / 1. a (IL) — completion of the school building intervention programme; Draft Resolution No 493 / XV / 1. a (IL) — recommends that the Government grant private and cooperative education greater autonomy for the hiring of teachers; Resolution No. 494 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Review of decision on the digitisation of final cycle evidence No 9. the year of schooling; Resolution No 495 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By strengthening, monitoring and extending Plan 21 23 Schools + and diagnosing learning losses; Draft Resolution No 498 / XV / 1. a (L) — For fair compensation to teachers placed in schools away from their residence. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 9 minutes.]]
