ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Let me remind everyone who runs this afternoon the election of Vice-President to our Assembly. Between 15 and 18 hours, I ask everyone to exercise that right and duty. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for reading the file as soon as the level of noise permits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u2	It's the PS, it's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u3	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several initiatives: Bill No. 66 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission ; Draft Law No 666 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 667 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; and Resolution Projects Nos 550 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 551 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 552 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u4	We will then start the urgent debate required by the CFP on « speculation of essential goods prices and measures to stop it ». To begin the debate, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret that, in a debate on the importance of this, it is to signal the absence of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, taking into account the availability she has shown to be in so many media bodies. Finally, in this House, where he should be accountable, he is absent. Mrs. Members, this urgent debate required by the CFP is about speculating prices of essential goods and the measures to stop it, at a time when the Portuguese are faced with a brutal increase in the cost of living. Every day that passes, living conditions worsen, wages and pensions are very short of the needs of the population, while those who exploit and speculate see their profits increase shamefully. Today, some will be in this debate in defence of the economic groups which own large commercial areas, energy, banking and real estate funds. They will even come out in their defense by denying and bleaching the excessive profits they are making at the expense of despair, impoverishment and difficulties of millions of Portuguese. They will come to this debate and are concerned about families, but not about those who are at risk of losing their homes because they are unable to pay the benefit, those who are on the verge of being cleared or those who have to cut in their food and their children. It is not the difficulties of these families that affect them, they are those of the families Soares dos Santos, Azevedos, Mellos, among others, who increase their fortunes at the expense of those who fall into poverty and misery. The CFP is in this debate demanding measures to overcome the scourge of increased cost of living. Yes, we have seen this debate concerned about families who are desperate, who sacrifice themselves, who are starving and who are impoverished at work. The PCP comes to this debate on behalf of the families to whom the 30 €, 40 € or 50 € that have for the food of the week are no longer enough to buy rice, which rose to double, for milk, cheese or eggs, which have risen almost 40%, or for the fish, who have already stopped buying. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot continue as it is. This situation is indeed an assault on the portfolios of each of us, but it is not resolved by police measures and much less by pedagogy to large distribution, as it seems now to be the government's new revenue. Every day, the cost of living increases, everything is more expensive and there is no wage, reform and pension that resists this harsh reality that finds no answer in the action and options of the PS Government. They can't always be the same. The bread, the gas and the fuels rise. The milk, the vegetables, the meat, the fish, the dough, the oil and the fruit rise. It rises the income, the performance of the house and the light. Everything goes up except salary, pension and retirement. Those who defend the sacrosanct market well today can invent all the arguments, which will not be able to explain how, in Portugal, surplus oil, prices are practised as never seen. Is the market not working? It works, but it's always on the same side and on the same side. What also works is the use that is being made for those who add profits with the cartel and the imposition of margins of 30 %, 40 % and 50 %. Here too is a brutal assault on the wallets of each of us, which is so unsolved with good-behaving medals that the government now wants to put on the products. The equation is simple. If the search has reduced and if the Portuguese have made the biggest cut in the purchase of food, it's because Portuguese money can buy less. If profits increase, and much, then there is only one explanation: the margins must be greater. If the big commercial surfaces are winning much more, there must be speculation. Well, the Azeved Cloudias and the Pedros Soares of the Saints of this world can come to say that it is not the great distribution that is making profits, looking until they deny their own accounts. They may even blame producers and farmers for gross increases in food goods. But what is known is that profits from the large distribution increased by between 20 % and 30 %, as Sonae announced today, while the income of agricultural producers decreased by 12 %, as indicated by the National Institute of Statistics. The Government, which should have a determined intervention in regulating the prices of goods and essential services, chooses to assist in the loss of the purchasing power of Portuguese, favouring and leaving speculation to gallop, contributing to the accumulation of fabulous profits and the distribution of dividends, displayed by the economic groups as if medals and trophies were being treated. There is not enough on-the-spot and assistance measures, as if they were handcuffs, such as those promoted by the Government, and much less the use of public revenue to feed economic profits, as the Government has done with the tolls or with the More Housing package.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u6	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u7	Nor is it sufficient for the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative to also want and defend, which is to put public resources to support the reduction of VAT (value added tax) without imposing price fixing, which in practice would result in an even greater accumulation of profit margins by the economic groups, which would result in this reduction of VAT in their pocket and the Portuguese to be duly penalised. Ask me what it was like in Spain! Instead of helping, it is raising prices and reflecting negatively. As for the agricultural market observatory, which the Government announced as if it were something new, when the GPP ( Planning Office, Policies and General Administration ) had already done this function long ago, I wonder what data is that observatory gives us. What the Minister did was take from the data from the Agricultural Market Information System, put on a new shirt and call them observatory. In addition to prices paid to producers, when are prices paid by consumers? More transparency, less propaganda and more action is required. The Government yesterday announced, through the voice of the Minister of Agriculture, a seal, a medal of good behaviour to focus on food products that have a fair price. This debate is about that. Since the Government already recognizes that it is possible to set a fair price, to compensate producers and to combat speculation, the Government has only one way: to set these prices. Not to do so is to be directly responsible for the difficulties that millions of Portuguese pass. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u8	The Bureau recorded two requests for clarification to Mr Deputy's speech, but, without a better opinion, the logic of the urgency debate is not that. The logic of the urgent debate is: the different parliamentary groups make speeches; the parliamentary group that requires the urgent debate opens the debate; the government also has to intervene. Therefore, if there is no opposition, or better interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I will give the floor to interventions. Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u9	Mr President, unless there is a better interpretation, there is nothing contrary to the Rules of Procedure, I think that, since Mr João Dias made an intervention and there is no explicit rule that prevents Members from asking questions, it seems to us that the most correct interpretation, if there is no prohibitive rule, is that there can be questions to the speaker, as in all interventions. It's our interpretation. If Mr President understands that there must be interventions, that will be the case. Since there is no rule excluding in urgent debates that there may be questions, we believe that the general rule applies, i.e. in all interventions there may be requests for clarification. But Mr President will have your understanding and will decide.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u10	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is also asking for the floor. It only asked us not to enter into a debate on the Rules of Procedure, because at the Leaders' Conference we will succeed. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u11	Mr President, I am just calling for some memory I have on this matter. I note that Mr President's interpretation is the original interpretation of these debates. And it makes sense because the times are extremely short for interventions and then when there are requests for clarification and answers, this makes everything very demanding. However, it has not always been the practice. We adhered to your interpretation because it is the one that most faithfully reproduces...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u12	It hasn't always been like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u13	It hasn't always been that way. That's what I just said. We have adhered to Mr President's interpretation and we believe that this is the one that most appreciates the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u14	I would begin my sentence by saying « knowing how to count at least on the support of the Liberal Initiative »,... [[Rice from IL.]] ... I understand that we will stabilize a consensual interpretation at the next Conference of Leaders and, however, abides by the rule of individual freedom. So if any of the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who have signed up to ask for clarifications to do so, you can use the floor. Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, are you satisfied with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u15	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u16	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Ventura has the floor for a request for clarification if you intend to do so. Mr João Dias will have the opportunity, in the course of the debate, to respond if he understands it too. Please, Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u17	Mr President, Mr João Dias, given the time limit, will be a very short question and I think it will also generate a short answer. The honourable Member said, well, and the Arrival fully agrees, that we cannot have large groups of distribution with extraordinary profits when producers, farmers and consumers find it difficult to keep up with it. there is no doubt about it. There is no doubt about us, at least. But Mr President, at the same time, he ignores the other part of the problem, which is the tax. The honourable Member said: « Look at Spain, Spain has not produced any results. » Spain did not give the expected result, it is true, but when the price table does not look at taxes, Mr. Deputies is dishonouring the government of any responsibility and now he says that he will balance prices, knowing that, by setting prices, he kills the market, he intervenes in the market. So they define for yourselves what the price is without paying attention to transport costs, distribution costs and even the increase in petrol and gasoline.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u18	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u19	That is why he cannot ignore that the CFP has voted against almost all the proposals which he has made to reduce VAT, either of essential products or the intermediate rate, or a number of others. PCP voted against. Therefore, the CFP believes that prices should be set, but does not understand that taxes should be lowered. That's not very well understood. The honourable Member says: 'Well, this is using public resources to protect the consumer. “ But is that not the way it should be? [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Should not the State intervene, when necessary, by lowering taxes, knowing that our VAT is one of the highest in the European Union? Does it just make sense to act in price logic? Since we are one of the highest VAT in the European Union, was it not a reduction in VAT? This is a question to which the CFP also has to answer: will it commit to this descent or not? We already know that the CFP has a price-fixing position, to set prices. We respect that position. It's not ours, but we respect it. What is the CFP's position on the limitation of the profit margin it has proposed, to limit to 15 % the gross profit margin in essential goods, but on a temporary basis, to ensure that we protect our citizens, but do not go into madness of'venalisation' of the market which will destroy the economy itself? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u20	Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services is registered for an intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u21	Don't! Mr. João Dias has to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u22	Mr. João Dias would you like to use your time to respond right away?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u23	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u24	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, you can have a lot of talk, but I am changing it quickly for what you want and want. If we are here today is because the PCP proposal, which affected precisely the excessive margins, was rejected by PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal and Arrival Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u27	Precisely the one who had an impact on speculative margins. It's that speculative margins are different from profit. And that's what the Arrival wants to confuse with this speech, but, in fact, what you want is to defend the same as ever, it's to defend those who put the sacrifices of the Portuguese in their pockets. But I give you the example of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products). On the day the government announced the ISP cut in 15 cents, on Monday, this was only reflected in 5 cents. You know why? Because, before refining, the petroleum products increased and there was no price fixing. There was no such care and we lost that tax. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u28	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services, Nuno Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal recorded an inflation of around 8, 6 % in January 2022, a value below the European Union average. But when we look at the consumer food price index, this value exceeds 21 %. In other words, the value of food goods is almost three times the value of inflation. It adds the fact that Portugal is one of the countries in Europe with higher prices in food goods. We are above the European Union average. This increase requires explanations and answers for Portuguese. And this is even more pressing when electricity, fuel, gas and fertilizer prices have fallen in recent months. In some cases, prices are even lower in view of the start of the war in Europe, which is an example of the price of gas. Therefore, this data cannot in itself justify the increase in consumer food prices. On the contrary, they show the need to know the entire price structure that is being practised by all economic operators in the food chain. And the real study is the action on the ground, whether on the shelves, or in the documentary analysis that is carried out with the operators. It is knowledge that enables us to act effectively as well. On the other hand, it is also important to detect and suppress, with rigour, abusive commercial practices. That is why the ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority) has been stepping up supervision—and has been consequently, whenever it verifies anomalies. And that's defending the consumer. at the same time, in the last year, the Government has adopted very important measures to mitigate the impact of inflation: we have mobilized direct support for families and businesses, including for the agricultural sector; we have implemented measures that have allowed the price reduction of fuels, gas and electricity; we have approved the exemption of VAT for fertilizers, fertilizers and other animal feed products that are used in agricultural production, and which remain in force; and even today the Council of Ministers has adopted very important measures for households in the field of housing, in support of income or housing credit. It has been an effort on several fronts and we will continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this is a challenge for all of us: it certainly calls on the State to act as regulation, supervision and support for businesses and families, and that is what we have come to do and that is what we will continue to do; it also calls on all operators, in particular as regards greater transparency, fair pricing and social responsibility; and also consumer protection associations which have, in fact, contributed to this. It is this collaborative effort that is required of all. Nothing moves us against anyone. Our focus is on consumer protection and the promotion of a healthy economy, and that is what we will continue to do in an intransigent way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government, with the Portuguese, has surpassed several crises and this time it will not be different. The Government is acting and will take all necessary measures to defend the Portuguese and a just economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u32	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification, to which the Secretary of State will answer together. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just combined that, as long as we do not stabilize in the consensual interpretation of the Conference of Leaders, the principle of individual freedom is in force. For the first request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u33	Mr President, Secretary of State, we were hoping that the government would come to this debate, scheduled by the CFP, to bring some news, but we have already seen that it does not bring any news. It tells us that it will monitor, that it will be next to the consumer, that the government and the ASAE have already done something, but, in fact, well-worn, it is as the President of the Republic says. That is, when we open the melon, inside, there's nothing, really, or, then, it's a terrible melon. What the government brings us is a terrible mess: neither inflation control measures nor measures to safeguard the interests of consumers. Mr. Secretary of State, you can say what you understand. Deco brought us numbers that are absolutely scary. A cabaz of 63 essential goods today reached 230 €, a rise of 38, 5 % compared to February 2022. In view of this, what does the government propose? A price observatory — an observatory that has existed since 2015. If this is not to enjoy who you work with, I don't know what this is, because with the Portuguese not to be able to buy food in the supermarket, not to be able to put essential goods on the table, the PS brings us is a price observatory that already exists and therefore does not bring anything back at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u34	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u35	Then Mr. Secretary of State says that he will be on the side of consumer protection. Mr. Secretary of State, but where? Where? Where are we going to allow farmers to really receive? What do producers receive? That consumers don't get to the supermarket and they don't get robbed every day when they're gonna buy things there? What does the government have to give? Let's study, let's check, let's see. I mean, as always, we're not gonna do anything and we're gonna wait. Mr Secretary of State, a little more of the PS was expected in today's debate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u36	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] I ask for silence. Mr. João Dias has a good voice, but he also has the right to silence as well as others. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u37	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I was negatively surprised by your intervention. He did not announce any measures, he did not bring any measures. Tell us, after all, what measures does it bring to this problem that is so serious? On the question of seal: really? Mr Secretary of State, do you really want a stamp on products that have a fair price? It is already known that there are products of Portuguese origin and imported. Now we also know that there are products with fair prices and products with speculative prices. So tell us there: what will you do with products with speculative price? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u38	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Secretary of State, came here to try to make a diagnosis of rising prices. It's just that this diagnosis is completely disconnected from reality. It is surprising that you do not know what is happening in Portugal with prices and inflation. The government has been ignoring the problem of inflation for months. We warned, we, PSD, that there was an inflation problem. And inflation is there at the door and all Portuguese are suffering from it. So, Mr Secretary of State, how does it explain that the government has raised more than EUR 7 billion in tax revenue compared to 2021? How do we have a 19 % tax effort above the European Union average and the government is slow to take action to lower the tax burden? That is what, to a large extent, is also influencing the cost of living of Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u40	For a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, justice in the economy. It is just as much as they ask, from producers to customers: justice in the economy. What the government brings, what guarantees is injustice in the economy and that the elite continues to win in a way that is unheard of in our history. We have the producers losing money. Producers who fail to survive are complained because they have a large distribution that places their margins on them, which takes away their ability to live. We have customers being stolen every time they go to a hypermarket, because profit margins are abusive. What is growing is the profit margins, the profits of the large distribution, the dividends paid to shareholders, and poverty in our country is also growing. There's no need to get food on the table. We need to ensure that we do not starve in our country, because the prices of essential goods are fair. Justice in the economy is lacking. What does the government bring? A stamp! We had already heard of, as measures to respond to economic crises, the PINs (projects of potential national interest). It was the right that brought the pins on the lapel, while attacking Portugal. Then I would knock my hand on the pin and have our flag. The arrival does exactly the same thing and now it is the government that bears a stamp, but that stamp only seems to be a stamp of stupidity to people, but people are not stupid, Mr. Secretary of State. And you understand the simplest of this reality. While they are being stolen because the government so leaves, the large distribution is presenting profits as never before, it is distributing larger dividends than in the past. And I ask: how long will the government let this injustice remain? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u42	The last request for clarification to Mr Secretary of State belongs to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, sensitivity and common sense, in addition to fiscal justice, is the minimum requirement in a context where we are all confronted with the fact that more than half of the families are unable to afford the expenses. We are talking about a significant increase compared to last year — 27 % in relation to essential goods; 21 % in pet food. In both circumstances, the NAP presented measures, i.e. zero VAT for the food tank, or the reduction of VAT for pet food, and the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group rejected these proposals. instead of having more robust proposals on the part of the government, what we see is that on the same day we will soon know what the data bring us in relation to the increase in cost of living, we also have the ECB increasing interest rates and therefore we have a completely catastrophic scenario for families and businesses and we have the proposal for a seal and an observatory that already exists, rather than having effective measures. The NAP, still today, will enter into a proposal which aims to create the compulsoryity of a report containing the prices of essential goods, like what happened in Italy. I wonder if they will be available to follow this proposal, because we must once and for all move on to measures that are not sufficient, such as supervision,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u44	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u45	... even by the very lack of the means of ASAE itself, but also by the processing of the criminal processes, so that they do not continue to impose, on the one hand, the values fixed in the shelf and, on the other hand, the activity itself, because these are unacceptable increases for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u46	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, Trade and Services has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government knows the reality very well, and that is why it has been acting, but it seems to some of you. Members are not so well aware of this reality and we are therefore going to share some data on price increases. As I said, food prices are almost three times that of general inflation. But when we compare with Europe, what we have is an increase in fruit, which in the last year has increased in Europe 9 %, in Portugal increased 18 %. When we talk about vegetables, Europe has increased by 14 %, in Portugal it has increased by 26 %. So, as regards this increase that we have verified in food goods, let's look at the external cost factors: what have we verified since October? In electricity there was a reduction of less than 24 %; in fuels there was a reduction of less than 15 %; and in natural gas there was a reduction of less than 5 %. In view of data from the INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ), in view of Eurostat data, the honourable Member has to consult and study these elements. I'll share that with you. Therefore, these costs that are falling, of electricity, fuel and natural gas, have to have an impact on food goods. And that's why ASAE is acting. We are not observing, acting and acting on the ground. So I say, Mr. André Ventura, do you think it's wrong what ASAE is doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u48	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u49	You think it's bad he's on the ground?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u50	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u51	Do you think it's wrong he's monitoring prices? Is it wrong that you're studying the price structure? That's what ASAE is doing. He's not studying, he's acting! [[P.S.'s applause.]] He's acting on the ground. We act with knowledge, because we look at the chain of agri-food as a whole. We are at a stage of analysis of the agri-food chain. As far as measures are concerned, the government has not now agreed on inflation. We have been taking very important measures for a long time. I will tell you what measures we have now taken. In the field of electricity in 2022, with the measures taken, we allowed an average savings of 22 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u52	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u53	Today, we have the cheapest electricity in Europe. Check out the website today, comparing with other countries, and you will see that Portugal has the cheapest electricity in Europe. [[CH protests.]] In the natural gas market, we have saved 30% for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u54	That's not true! People are paying more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u55	These are the data you can disclose. We have therefore taken various measures to combat inflation. The same is true in the field of housing. Still today, measures have been adopted to deal with families. For this reason, the government has been able to turn around and deal with various crises. We have overcome the pandemic crisis, overcome the energy crisis, fought with measures, and here the Government will take the measures necessary to meet the challenges facing Portuguese and a healthy economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u56	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u57	Because this, Mr. PSD Member Hugo Carneiro, is not a austerity government. It's a government of solidarity. [[PSD and CH laughter.]] That's what we've done, that's what we've proven, and that's what's going to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u58	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the IL Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is now presenting a debate and is presenting as a solution to fight inflation by setting prices. You could come here to explain that price controls don't work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u60	I can explain it works!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u61	... that generate scarcity and limit competition and could list numerous examples of failures in the implementation of this policy. With price limits, we would have less variety of products and would have empty shelves,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u62	Don't you say you have gas regulated? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u63	...which is what happens when prices are fixed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u64	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u65	I could come to show all this and conclude that joining the shortage of inflation is the last thing the country needs at this stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u67	It could also challenge the premises of these debates that the margins are enormous and have risen. In fact, still today, one of these groups presented results that demonstrate that this is not true,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u68	It's increased dividends!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u69	... that the margins, for example, of Jerome Martins are 5, 9 %, that the profit margins before taxes are below 3 % and that they are equal to what they were in previous years, that retail prices are very similar and have fallen less than production prices. This is INE data. I could talk about it, but what I really would like to see is how this madness that you propose price fixing would work in practice. I want to give here an example of a product, the example of peas. I went to the site of one of these supermarket chains and saw some prices. I'm going to say the price of peas in the most various forms: a can of 190 g of peas cooked by a brand, the brand A, is at 6, 29 € / kg; 500 g of frozen bees of the brand B is at 5, 98 € / kg; 420 g of cane on its own brand is at 3, 04 € / kg; 1 kg of frozen bees of its own brand is at 1, 39 €/ kg. Depending on the brand and whether they are in can or frozen, peas can cost, in the same supermarket, or a little more than 1 € / kg or more than 6 € / kg. So my question, Mr President, is: what is the price that the CFP would set for peas, for kilograms of peas, if it could fix?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u70	You don't know the jail!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u71	It is that if you put a price above 1, 39 €, you won't do anything again, because people can already buy peas at 1, 39 €, if you understand it that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u72	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u73	If you fix below 1, 39 €, basically what you are doing is that you stop having smaller packages or cooked peas or whatever.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u74	It's hard to come here to play with people's lives! It hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u75	And what did he do at the price of cans that bring peas and carrots in the same can? Were you going to count the number of peas and the number of carrots to make a mixed price? [[PCP and BE protests.]] Note:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u76	Asshole!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u77	... here we are talking only about a product.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u78	People are poor because they choose expensive peas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u79	How would they determine the price for hundreds of products, which are sold in various forms, varieties and sizes? [[PCP and BE protests.]] I know that your model of economy does not include so many varieties, that the supermarkets that you like are those that have no variety and that do not contemplate the freedom of choice that evil capitalism brought, but tell me: how would I decide the prices? [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] The price-fixing proposals are not only terrible for the economy, they are absolutely impracticable and that is why they failed in all the countries in which they were implemented. Price controls are either useless or generate empty shelves, and empty shelves are an image we would not like to see, seen elsewhere, such as in Venezuela and the USSR ( Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u80	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u81	But I ask this question to the PCP, to the Communists of the PCP, but I also ask the Communists of the Left Block, to the Communists of the Arrival and some Communists of the PS, who are defending the same thing: how would they set prices of hundreds and thousands of products? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u82	And to people who can't go to the supermarket, what do you say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u83	There's nothing more fun than hunger, isn't there? Oh, my God! [[CH protests and IL counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u84	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, is now taking part in an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u85	Mr President, by chance, I was not enrolled in an intervention, but I will gladly accept the statement that Mr President has asked me for his word because, after hearing this shameful insult from the Liberal Initiative to the Reach,... [[IL and PSD rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u86	They think it's funny that people are starving!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u87	... we realize this: we are not communists, and we do not want to set prices. We're not the Beasts of the Line who don't know what it's like to buy rice, buy dough or buy food. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u88	Ui! Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u89	No, Mr President, we are next to these men and women who are here today, who have to go to the supermarket, who have to shop, who know what that is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u90	They think peas are born inside the can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u91	We're not going from electric trouts to buy food and we're not going to be cool and cool on Twitter. We are next to the population and that is our difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u92	Nothing else! [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u93	Mr. Secretary of State, this is the truth. And I shall conclude, Mr President, that I know that my time is short as well. The state is the one who is still winning by not lowering taxes. If you look at any comparison of VAT,... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] ...you will see that Portugal is one of the countries of Europe that is scarring the taxpayer and the consumer most. So how is England paying less? How is Italy paying less? How does Germany pay less,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u95	...if you have much higher wages than we do? So, Mr. Secretary of State, assumes: the government likes inflation, the government likes VAT. And it is for one reason: because, somehow, you are only worried about the rich and those who cannot or those who do not pay for this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u97	We will always be next to those who are currently having difficulty buying food in the supermarket. That's our pride, and that's what we're gonna keep here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If you have the courage, Mr. Secretary of State, and if your Government has the courage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u98	Mr. Deputies, it's already 1 minute and 23 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u99	I know, Mr. President. You're right, Mr. President. I'll finish. I repeat: if you have the courage, Mr Secretary of State, if your government has the courage, lower taxes to the Portuguese, because that is what they expect at this time. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u100	Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About a year ago, the Prime Minister and the Government devalued inflation and its effects. The Prime Minister said in April in the debate on the Budget that inflation would be transient. The Minister of Finance also said in the Budget that inflation in 2022 would be 3, 7% — repeat: 3, 7%. It was 7, 8 % more than twice. The PSD has always said that inflation would not be transient and that its effects would be very severe in the lives of millions of Portuguese and Portuguese. Since March or April 2022, the President of the PSD, Dr. Luís Montenegro, has been alerting for the problems of the cost of living and the loss of the purchasing power of Portuguese, but the government has ignored and failed to act. [[PSD applause.]] In addition to increasing the cost of living, we have the rise of interest rates. Here too, the government has ignored the subject for a long time. It is a dual tenaz, which has led to a growing impoverishment, a impoverishment aggravated by fiscal asphyxiation and further aggravated by the deterioration of public services. Portuguese people have less and less purchasing power, have less and less income, pay more and more taxes and have worse health, education and transport services, among others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since May 2022 we have encouraged the Government to act, which were necessary social support measures, even to deal with the huge increase in tax revenue. In August, we presented a Social Emergency Programme to support families and the most disadvantaged pensioners, but also the middle class, in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and in support of dependents, as well as the temporary reduction of electricity and gas VAT. Support for the most disadvantaged in the PSD proposal was made in a component in which prices increased most: food goods. If inflation was 7, 8 % by 2022, the prices of most food goods rose by 20, 30, 40 % or more. At the time, the Socialist Party, with its well-known sovereign and supposed moral superiority, spoke in « little charity»,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u102	... ignoring that the government itself had, in May and June, distributed a support in a food cassette, showing well who is populist and demagogy,... [[PSD applause.]] ... noting that, when supporting families and pensioners in a category of essential goods, income is released available for the other expenses and ignoring that the price of the cabal of food goods, as I said, rose three to four times more than the average value of inflation. The government replied late in October with a programme of illusions, where, under the cover of a supposed social measure, it cut one billion in pensions for all Portuguese. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to support the Portuguese socially. Millions of Portuguese have increasingly difficulty going to the supermarket and buying essential goods. There is certainly a need for more supervision and, if companies are abusing their market position, which are punished in accordance with the law. But what does the government do? It creates a political campaign, launching a cloak of confusion and suspicion and seeking to disguise what is unequivocal to all Portuguese: firstly, that responsibility for impoverishment is that of those who have already ruled seven years and today has an absolute majority; secondly, that those who profit most from rising prices, and in particular the prices of food and energy goods, are the government, in the enormous collection of tax revenue. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not moral that the government is making money with the increase in prices, at the expense of the Portuguese tax office. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD, as in last year, in which it led the presentation of the Social Emergency Programme, with the Government going to the trailer, did the same last month for housing, as we saw yesterday in the debate, and again to lead and show the alternative in the Social Programme that it presented last week and that we will soon discuss in this House. We are talking about a program to regularise tax debt and social security to finance extraordinary support in four axes: financial support to those who work and have incomes below 2, 5 IAS(indicating social support); financial support to pensioners who also have incomes below 2, 5 IAS; a reduction in the IRS of the 4. o, 5. it's 6. the steps; and a temporary reduction of VAT on electricity and gas. We encourage the government to act now. They do not need to wait for the debate in Parliament, where we are sure that the Socialist Party will vote in favour of this measure which supports the Portuguese and does not compromise the budgetary objectives for 2023. The Government can, and should, already implement this programme and equalize new support, especially in the food tank. It is that after the socialist swamp of Guterres and the socialist bankruptcy of Socrates, the country has the impoverishment and socialist degradation of the absolutely resounding and tired majority of António Costa. But there is an alternative, as has been demonstrated in several areas — in the social area, in housing, in education, in health, in public services and in many other subjects —, and this alternative, in non-socialist space, is the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u103	The Bureau noted Mr Carlos Pereira's registration for clarification, but he did not have time to answer. However, Mr Carlos Pereira has the right to make such a request for clarification, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u104	Mr President, I regret that the leader of the PSD Parliamentary Group, in the face of such an important debate, in his speech, supposedly, in essence, that we finally realized that it was even superficial, did not allow time to answer questions. I wanted, basically — and that is what I think is very important — to underline a few things that deserve to be emphasized. The first is that the Government has come to this debate with a sense of responsibility and indeed. I have not seen, from the government bench, no escapeaquil that is the obvious and to which we are all watching: there is an increase in prices above what is expected in the food casket. We assume that. Mr. Secretary of State assumed this and, in addition to assuming it, explained what was being done. We are in a rule of law, there are ways of monitoring those who do not comply and we are doing so with great intensity, as we have never done before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Opposition Members can ignore everything we are doing. They can ignore, they can say that nothing is done, that nothing has happened, that inflation is rising and that nothing has happened. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that they have come to the debate today, but the government has been taking action for a long time, and it is taking them with rigour and robustness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u105	You can't see anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u106	I'm going to remind the ladies. Members: Mr. Hugo Carneiro asked a question, saying that EUR 7 billion of tax revenues remained in the state. But tax revenues have not remained in the state; they are being made available to citizens and companies to fight this inflation. I, before becoming for this debate, recognizing what seemed to be obvious, which was what the opposition would say, in particular the PSD, was looking for an international comparison, which I think is important, Mr. Hugo Carneiro and Mr. Miranda Sarmento, to realize what Portugal has done in comparison with the other countries. Now, there is a conceptual European think tank, which has already been mentioned in this House, Bruegel, who did this analysis and collected everything that is being done in different countries. And, come on, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal allocated 8, 9 billion euros of aid to families and businesses, and 8, 6 billion went to families, which goes far beyond that number that Mr presented and that I did not know whether it was true or not. I repeat: 8, 6 billion euros of aid to families. And who said, like Mr. André Ventura, that he is no longer here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u107	It's here, not here! He went to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u108	...that there were no measures, just consult. It is 35 measures, 35 policies worth EUR 8, 9 billion that were implemented by this government and had an impact on inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr Miranda Sarmento, come to this House and say that there is nothing, that the government has ignored, that the government does not see, is at least dishonest and reveals a lack of credibility. But there is more: I waited for you to say here in the House that what you have in mind is more a programme than what you presented in August, which remained in the EUR 1000 million. Now, as I said now, we had already presented EUR 8, EUR 9 billion and at that time we had already presented EUR 5000 million. I confess that the people who are at home listening to this, who need help and who, of course, are waiting for the PSD to present solutions to what it wants to do, must have been as stupid as I am. So, are you still anchored in August 2022 with a EUR 1000 million programme, and are you not presenting anything consistent in this debate to help the Portuguese? It seems to me, quite frankly, that this has no credibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u109	It's just to cover up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u110	Mr Miranda Sarmento, I conclude by asking a question, although I know that he cannot answer, but when he can, when he is available, give this answer to the Portuguese. I sincerely hope that the PSD, one day in the midst of this terrible inflation, will tell the Portuguese what it wants to do, but that it is not just a cry of generalities such as those you said of the rostrum, and above all that it does not present proposals that are worse than the proposals of the Government. Well, that doesn't matter and doesn't solve the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u111	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has served to make sure that Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto went to the supermarket and was surprised by the fact that the supermarket sells, not only various types of peas, but also peas with other things.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u113	I wasn't surprised at anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u114	Well, if it was more often at the supermarket, maybe I would even be surprised by the increase in peas prices, of all of them, of the most diverse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u115	And what's the price?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u116	... and of what that means: the theft that is being done to families by profit margins, in particular the large distribution. But what is inherent in your speech, Mr President, is quite different and, I believe, much more harmful to people. The sum of their intervention is as follows: the problem of impoverishment is not the lack of peacocks; it is people who do not choose well the peacocks that count.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u117	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u118	In fact, what you are saying is that the impoverishment of people is because of the stupidity of people, it is not because of the market, because the market gives the offer that people want.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u119	He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u120	And in practice, the consequence that we perceive from this vision of the meritocracy of the Liberal Initiative is that people are only poor because they are stupid. And that is absurd, Mr. Member, it is absurd!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u121	Don't make it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u122	But we were also unaware of this debate, Mr Secretary of State and Mrs Minister, what the government is going to do. Mr. Secretary of State told us: "We regulated the price of electricity and, with that, the price will now be lowered from the second quarter. We recognize that there are abuses in the prices of the large distribution', and we have been given here a set of data demonstrating this abuse of prices. Then he said: « We recognize that the increase in prices has nothing to do with gas, electricity, oil and, therefore, there is someone here who is abusing», and we recognize that. He also said: « We compare the price of essential goods, in particular agricultural products, with that of other countries and we realize that in Portugal these prices are rising much more than in other countries», and we understand that. Mr. Secretary of State, and after understanding all this, why do you need an observatory? That is not necessary, Mr. Secretary of State. There is no need for a working group, a study or a report; what is needed is to control prices! And why is that good in electricity and bad in essential goods? Are they different profit margins or are they different economic groups? Some send more than others, is that it? Does the government like more than others? Are essential goods less important to put food on the table than electricity? What is the logic of government policy, Secretary of State? What will the government do? It is that we cannot reach the end of this debate and leave the way we enter, that is, without knowing what the government wants to do about an essential matter. It is that there are people who are starving, there are families in Portugal who are cutting in the purchase of essential goods as they have not cut in the period of the troika, that is, they are cutting more now, having more difficulty putting food on the table. It tells us that three quarters of the families are in financial difficulties and that 8 % are in difficulty in making essential payments. So, Mr. Secretary of State, what will the government do? Or is it more propaganda just for us to see? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u123	Mr. President, I ask for the floor to defend honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u124	Sir, is this a request to defend the honor of the bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u125	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u126	I'm sorry about what I'm going to say, I remember that the request to defend the board's honor has to be taken over by a member of the board's management, and I don't know if that's the case. Mr President, I would like only one minute to see if that is what the Rules of Procedure have to say. [[Pause.]] The Rules of Procedure do indeed offer, but if no parliamentary group opposes it, of course I will give the floor to Mr Guimarães Pinto, who is, above all, an old leader of the party concerned. As no one opposes it, I give the floor to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, asking him not to forget to indicate the point where he considers that the honor of his bench has been offended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. The parliamentary leader of the Left Block distorted the words we used, meaning that the Liberal Initiative justified people's poverty with their stupidity, which is a rather serious, moral accusation. There are certain purposes that do not justify such means. I did not expect a parliamentary bench to distort a Member's words in this way just to achieve a political objective. No, sir, we don't think so! What we said here was not that, because there were several prices for pea kilograms, people had to choose the best and that if they didn't choose were stupid.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u128	They spend their lives with Venezuela in their mouths, and that's not distortion!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u129	What we said was that there are several prices for the same product and that this effectively makes price fixing stupid. And now I advise you, Mr President, with great friendship, that you are very careful when you do such interpretations, when you talk about fixing prices as you speak; it is that the Portuguese Government is obsessed with occupying returned spaces and if you hear you talk so often they still expropriate their brains. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u130	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u131	I don't know what this is going to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u132	Mr President, this last expression is manifestly excessive, above all in an intervention in which it defends honor. The defense of honor does not mean using this kind of depreciation. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u133	Mr President, Mr President, I will reply to you with the seriousness which I deserve from the IL Parliamentary Group, which deserves me any Member in office but not your intervention. I am going to the arguments you have used, because I am going to discuss exactly the terms in which you made your initial and next intervention. The honourable Member was almost 3 minutes away from his intervention to joke about pea prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u134	Are you kidding me? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u135	Well, if you don't think they were funny, then I don't know what you're saying, because I was trying to be nice in the way you were cataloging your intervention, which looked more like a stand-up number comedy than really a bottom-up intervention, being even Mr An Economist. The honourable Member made a number of general comments on the idea, on the one hand, that price control leads to empty shelves, and that price control leads to Venezuela on the other. It is an argument that we have heard here several times before. But I am going to debate this seriously, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u136	That's what I should have done before!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u137	We see in the United States empty shelves of things as simple as milk powder for babies. What I know is not Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u138	In Venezuela there are no empty shelves?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u139	That I know, there's no price limit for that, but we see empty shelves. We see empty shelves of essential goods, in particular vegetables, in the United Kingdom. Vegetables, sir! That I know, it's not Venezuela, that I know, there's no price control. So if you want to debate seriously — I am doing so — your statements are false. False!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u140	It had been done before!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u141	And more: we see in the energy sector, which you have also accompanied for some time, price control on the sale of electricity. And I ask him, did you see any dam running across the border? Did you see any wind tower lifting flight somewhere else? But did anyone tell you that? I just didn't see it! Producers could even sell to other countries, but they didn't. Therefore, their statements are factually false—false! — and what I did was to show that, in fact, his arguments had no point where he was caught. Your problem is that I took your words seriously because I took seriously how prejudice you have toward people, and that is what I cannot accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u142	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u143	You now have the floor on behalf of the Freeman, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u144	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State : A central problem of this debate is that there is no inflationary crisis like this in the living memory, and the governments respond to it with their memories of the inflationary crises they have experienced. Mr. Prime Minister, since the beginning of this crisis and even before the war, only compared it with the 1970s, which ended with high interest rates and a recession. Then the war began, and it took a year not only to finally realize that inflation would last as long as the war lasted — that is, indefinitely — but also to realize that the increase in wages would not be a problem, because it did not create an inflationary spiral, nor did price control be an unpublished or ineffective thing in time of war, because it existed, exists and has worked. Of course, the Liberal Initiative wants us to believe that price control has always failed, since the times of the Roman Empire, and always wants to confuse price control and margin control with price fixing and pricing. They're not the same. In fact, when he brought here the example of price control that existed in the United States of America during the war, the Liberal Initiative said: « But it ended in 1947. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's over because the war's over and inflation's over. That is, while it was necessary, it existed. So the challenge here is the following: during the pandemic, he said many times that we had to behave in front of the pandemic as we behaved in front of a war. Now that we are having a war on the European continent, do at least what they did during the pandemic. Where are the meetings of Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority) of inflation, with the Ministry of Economics, Finance, with the planning office of the Ministry of Agriculture, with ASEE, with DECO, with producers, with trade unions? Where are they? People need to see that they're acting. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Do not make an observatory, which I think you have already done in 2015, so that we will see the prices to pass and we will see them! Where are you, like during the pandemic - and I don't think the Liberal Initiative has complained a lot - price control? The masks and the gel had the controlled margins and there was no shortage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u145	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u146	Half an hour!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u147	Why? Because there was the third element which is also essential, which is support for supply and production. With these three elements, it is possible to combat inflation, it is possible to prevent unnecessary suffering. Do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u148	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u149	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares : First of all, price control and price margins are very different things, and it is worth not confusing people about these matters. [[L. Protests.]] I would like to tell Mr Pedro Filipe Soares that the empty shelves come from several things, not just price fixing, and this example that you have given is not a happy example. I would like to say that, by leaving aside, in some way, the entertainment of Mr Guimarães Pinto — only Mr Guimarães Pinto and the Liberal Initiative is that they would remember bringing peas to the House at €6 — there is, in fact, a problem with pricing, and economic history demonstrates this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u150	Have you had fun, Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u151	But Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, in his speech to Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, spoke in false remarks. In his speech he also made comments that are not supported by reality, particularly those in which he says that today, in the state in which we are, the Portuguese are worse than they were at the time of the troika crisis. It seems to me that these statements which you have made are manifestly untenable; they are indeed false, it is possible to prove it, and you have not been well in this matter. Finally, another note which I think is important and which has resulted from some interventions — the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative not so much, and the PSD did not come to this out of fear — which has to do with VAT, which is a sort of elephant in the middle of the room. If the gentlemen. Members will have to consult with what is happening in the rest of Europe — and they will have to ask themselves about it — they will find that the changes or movements of VAT since the war began took place in only four European countries, and one of them is right here, and it is possible to verify what happened with the reduction of VAT in food products: many of the products have increased the price, and some of them have even increased 60 %. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] This seems to me to be sufficient to question whether the PSD wants to follow this matter and whether there is any programme — I repeat — whether it is different from that and to help the citizens in fact. So far, honestly, we have seen absolutely nothing, and Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, when he climbed that lever, he should obviously have taken advantage of it to say what he was doing. I conclude by saying something very important to me again: the parliamentary groups, particularly those on the right, have the habit of saying that the government has influence on operators, regulators, that does nothing, that is always influencing and saying what they should and should not do,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u152	We've already said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u153	...I was here during the debate thinking that one of the government's responsibilities is even ASAE. The ASAE depends directly on the Government and the Government must act, as it has done, with a sense of responsibility, seeking solutions to end this situation, which is truly unbearable. But there are other entities, and I'm surprised because neither the Liberal Initiative nor the Reach nor the PSD have remembered to ask what is being done in the Competition Authority. Obviously, it will not be the government that will do that, it will not be the government that will knock on the door of the Competition Authority. Now, the gentlemen are quiet, they haven't said anything. I don't know if this concerns you, the performance of the entrepreneurs, the large distribution, I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u154	We talked about it yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u155	But what really matters, to conclude, Mr President, is that the government has brought hope to this House to the Portuguese. We are following the way food is growing, and they are growing above what is expected. We think there are problems in price formation in the food chain, we have to evaluate, it is being evaluated, and we will reinforce this assessment! And we must put on the ground everything that can be placed, everything that is available in the state, to ensure consumer protection and keep prices at appropriate levels. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u156	Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u157	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u159	Mr President, as I said in my speech, but perhaps Mr Carlos Pereira has not yet had an opportunity to see, but I believe he will already be in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, has already entered Bill No 660 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), a social emergency program. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u160	It is up to the CFP to close this debate. [[Pause.]] Doesn't it fit?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u161	Mr President, we want to divide our time into two speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u162	All right. So for an intervention, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u163	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto : That you are a challenger, we already knew, but come here with graces, with these graces regarding the suffering of the Portuguese is that we were not waiting. Do you know who doesn't think it's funny or funny? They are the Portuguese, when they're going to buy fried lettuce at 2, 99 € and this is paid to the producer at 0, 78 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u164	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u165	Or when they buy bottles at 2, 29 € and are paid to the producer at 1, 19 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u166	Who's winning? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u167	Or when they buy carrot at 0, 60 € to the producer and the large commercial surfaces charge 1, 39 € to the consumers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u168	Who's winning? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u169	But, sir, I want to tell you even more. Have you been to a pharmacy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u170	I've been there several times.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u171	Do you know how many thousands of medicines exist in a pharmacy, with different ways, formulas, dosages? Look they're all framed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u172	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u173	Sir, after all, how is it? Does it work or does it not work? Did you go to Madeira to put fuel in the car store? Look, it's packed there too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u174	And there's no shortage of fuel!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u175	And now: we already realize that the PS is not available either to set prices, nor to face the large commercial surfaces, nor to do what needs to be done, which is to increase Portuguese wages and pensions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u176	To close the debate, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have this debate on the day when the ECB ( the European Central Bank ) announces once again an increase in the reference interest rate, so we could not stop talking about it. The policy that has been followed by the ECB is a fact to the extent of economic power, because it forgets lessons from the recent past, because it puts the workers and the poor to pay for the crisis and because the current inflation situation does not result from demand, it does not result from increased consumption, but from problems at the level of supply. The consequences of this monetary policy have first been felt in people's lives and in the real economy — and so far no one has cared — and now they have also reached the heart of the financial system from the United States to Switzerland. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the ECB has announced a further increase in reference interest for this year to 3 %. This means that, in just a few months, we have shifted from negative interest to effort rate values far above what was expected when housing credit contracts were signed. Today, the levels of non-compliance in housing credit are not only higher because the Portuguese cut, first, in fundamental expenses—in feeding, in kids' activities, in leisure, in thermal comfort—to avoid reaching a situation of non-compliance in housing credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u178	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u179	The inflationist spiral, contrary to what Costa and Medina said, does not come from wages. The inflationary spiral comes from the increase in profit margins, as the ECB itself has recently acknowledged. If so, we ask the Government and the Socialist Party: when are they going to correct this claim that the increase in wages could lead to an inflationary spiral and when are they going to take it into practice, increasing wages? And in the bank, when will they intervene to stop this disproportionately, where bank profits increase by 70 % in a single year, while the majority of the population lives worse and worse? It's no use throwing taxpayers' money out of trouble. In the food goods, we ask again: stop observatories, stop half-measured, hear the cry of the streets for a just life, for a life that can be better. For that, price control is needed, and the government has to act, it cannot leave this out of hand. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u180	We are thus at the end of this item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, which concerns political declarations. The first political declaration is the PSD and to this end Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the last 27 years, the Socialist Party has ruled for 20, i.e. three every four years. And the same is true of 75% of the time in the last 30 years. The deplorable state in which the National Health Service ( SNS) is located, the service whose paternity the Socialist Party so demands for photography, but which every day forgets, despises and dexterates, has a great responsibility and this is responsible for the Socialist Party. Do not complain, therefore, of the Portuguese if they let themselves be carried away by your demagogy, by your hypocrisy, by your confident conversation that now it will be, now that the SNS will be valued, now that it will have investment and leave no one behind. at the end of more than seven years of socialist power, it is no longer time of apology. And there is no excuse for an SNS with 1 million and a half Portuguese without a family doctor, more than 50% than at the end of 2015, more 500 000 than when the Socialist Party arrived at the government. [[PSD applause.]] Only in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, the number of SNS users without a family doctor is now greater than that of all users in this situation in mainland Portugal at the end of 2015. It's a fact, yes sir! I would also like to recall today the promise made by Prime Minister Antonio Costa that in 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor. It's to laugh if it's not to cry. And we do not delude ourselves: without a sufficient and efficient response in primary care, the Portuguese will continue to go to hospital emergencies, with acute situations that could and should be resolved in their health centers. But there is also no excuse for an ever more closed SNS, with urgent services to close the wrong and the right, now in the night, now at weekends, in which the maps of the emergencies most seem colorful school calendars, in which pregnant women and children are forced to go through dozens, and sometimes even more than 100 km, if they need urgent hospital care. An example of this retreat from the SNS, in the territorial coverage of the country, is the recent plan to close pediatric emergencies, a plan that, simply because of the persistent love of lies, the government calls for reorganization. [[PSD applause.]] From this plan, the only certainty is that it will harm medical care during the night to about 190 000 children and young people living in the districts of Lisbon and Setúbal, which are approximately 10 % of the lower Portuguese population. For now, the resignations of hospital doctors, as happened in Amadora-Sintra hospitals, Almada or Loures and São Francisco Xavier, occur. There are also thousands of statements of an apology for responsibility, submitted by doctors and nurses of the SNS. You have no doubt, sir. Members of the Socialist Party, these resignations and excuses for responsibility are not even a vote of confidence in your government's policies. They are, yes, acts of despair, acts of denunciation, in the face of the horrendous lack of minimum conditions for the provision of quality health care to patients. It is true that Mr. Executive Director of the SNS, who seems increasingly the true Minister of Health, said in this Parliament that the care activity of the SNS increased last January, which is positive for the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u182	Oh, did it grow after all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u183	... and that we greet, even knowing that one month is not a year and that this increase is due to the self-sufficient effort of health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u184	Did it increase or not increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u185	Despite this, there is no excuse for the miserable waiting times that patients have to wait for surgery or consultation, all because of a government that does not give them an answer, and that rejects, fanatically, all the proposals that aim to ensure timely access to health care. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for those who were spreading the lie that the PSD would not have reformist proposals for the health sector, the truth is that we have them, but they have all been systematically rejected by the absolute socialist power. I give some examples: we proposed increased coverage of family physicians, through the use of physicians in the social and private sector, the PS voted against; we proposed the contractualization, with the social and private sectors, of the management of health units and the performance of health services, provided that this was beneficial to people and the state, and the PS led; we proposed the extension of the SIGIC system (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) from the waiting lists for surgeries, medical consultations and complementary means of diagnosis, and the PS rejected; we proposed the remuneration of health professionals, based on their clinical performance and health gains, and the PS leadou. Mrs. Members, this majority is tired, this majority is exhausted, this government has given up from the Portuguese and the PS has no ability, nor will, reformist. And the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u186	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u187	... the Social Democratic Party, is well aware of its responsibility to build a new path to the SNS, which places people above the political interests and fictions and which, once and for all, enjoys the remaining capacity installed in the health system, while at the same time knowing how to value and recognize health professionals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u188	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Are you answering one by one?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u189	Mr. President, I respond in two groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u190	All right. We will clarify the following: the entries for requests for clarification that the Bureau registers are the Members. Deputies Pedro Frazão, Joana Cordeiro, Pedro Filipe Soares and João Dias. [[Pause.]] Mr. Luís Soares, too? So it's five requests for clarification. Do you want to answer three times and two times?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u191	Mr President, I answer twice and three times.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u192	The first request for clarification belongs to Mr Pedro Frazão of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Cristina, I thank you very much for bringing this topic so relevant, which is the perfect storm we live in today's SNS. In fact, then an absolute majority, which came after a management, and already after two health ministers in office with an absolute majority and an executive director who has been even publicly disallowed by this new minister, we have this week covers of newspapers that tell us the following : « SNS by a thread ». The speaker showed the news he mentioned. I will read: « Neither Manuel Pizarro nor Fernando Araújo are able to change the paradigm of the National Health Service, which continues to degrade [... ] ». This number of a national newspaper was entirely devoted to health, to the disqualification that exists in health in Portugal. In fact, when we arrived here, we saw that the so propagated SNS Statute, announced by the previous Minister, Dr. Marta Temido, who promised to be the cure for all the ills of the SNS, after all, did not cure anything. We see that the new Executive Director of the SNS, also promised as the Savior of the homeland, also does nothing. The only thing that brings us are proposals equal to the previous ones, which are closing calendars, paid by weight of gold,... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u194	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u195	... produced by a communication advice that earns 360 € per day to make very nice calendars, in colors, but that do not solve the problem of people. We have hospitals without doctors, without doctors specialists. At the hospital in Santarém, there should be 40 anesthetists, but there are less than 10, there should be more than 40 internal medicine doctors, there are 7 or 8, and that is how all over the country. Therefore, Mr Rui Cristina, what I would like to ask you is whether it does not seem to you that at the moment neither the new Executive Director nor the new Minister can respond to our health problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u197	at this moment, what we have is to shoot directly Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Mr Rui Cristina said, up there, in the pulpit, that the guilt is the Socialist Party's fault, but let yourself disagree.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u198	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u199	It's Mr. Prime Minister's fault.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u200	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u201	And it will not be his fault for the closure...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u202	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u203	...and the denial of health access that we live in our country today? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u204	Allow me to tell you, Mr, that the expression « shoot directly » followed by the identification of a person is not a proper expression to be used in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u205	It's poetry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u206	The second request for clarification belongs to Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Cristina, in fact SNS has changed Portugal, has guaranteed all Portuguese universal access to health care and has effectively contributed to improving the living conditions of Portuguese. For many years, many health gains have been achieved, but what we have today is a system that has not been able to adapt to the needs of the population and to new realities of aging and worsening chronic diseases. We cannot continue to insist on the same solutions in the past to solve the present, the present, and the future. And what we continue to watch repeatedly is unacceptable situations, and what Mr. Rui Cristina has already identified here: we have nearly 1 million and 600 thousand people without a family doctor; the waiting lists for consultations, exams and surgeries continue to increase; we have professionals completely demotivated and without any desire to continue working at the SNS. This only means that whoever has no alternative does not have an answer and does not find a response in health care. And we don't see any solutions. We have, in fact, a management without autonomy and we have a guardianship that does not have any kind of vision or strategy. Here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on the side of the Left Block and the PCP, the only thing we see is that there is no desire for reform, want more money, they continue to insist on the same solutions and, instead of focusing on responding to people, they focus on a fight against the private health sector and nothing else. [[PCP and BE protests.]] What ends up is that they are the main advocates of this system, which is the growth of the private health sector, which, I would say, was not what they wanted to do. Then we have the Socialist Party, for which everything is fine in the SNS, there is no need to do anything. All the proposals presented here are systematically continuing and, curiously, even those with which the Government even agrees or even expresses some kind of openness. The only proposals they still approve are proposals from the Free and the NAP, which mostly require working groups or studies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u208	IL doesn't like to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u209	The only thing we can conclude is that the PS really likes to put people working for the Socialist Party, to pretend they're doing something, and actually, they don't even hear the results of these working groups. So, Mr Rui Cristina, my question is, in fact, one more request for comment: what do you have to tell us about this compressor roll of the absolute majority, which has zero willingness to solve people's problems and to respond to people's needs when looking for health care?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u210	To reply, Mr. Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u211	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Pedro Frazão for his questions and Mrs Joana Cordeiro for the Liberal Initiative. We know that what led to the creation of the post of Executive Director of the National Health Service did not once again pass an attempt to disresponsible the current Minister of Health for his decisions. What we still don't realize is who responds to the SNS. There's a mix of responsibilities that hasn't been clarified yet, but there's something we're going to figure out, is that the Minister of Health, when the results are good...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u212	Are there any good results after all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u213	... and when the true policies that contribute to gains in the health of the Portuguese are explained, the responsibility of the Minister is; when there are bad results, when emergencies are closed, when there are applications for an excuse for the responsibility of nurses and doctors themselves, who will respond is the Executive Director of the National Health Service. I would also like to remind you of what is happening in these emergencies, because a plan to reorganise the emergencies in Lisbon and Tejo Valley has been presented, to which this government tries to call reorganization, but there is no attempt to justify its incompetence of management, which leads to the closure of these emergencies. When a user arrives at an emergency service he will be able to replace the « closed urgency » plate to « reorganized urgency ». With regard to Mrs Joana Cordeiro, the SNS is in a state, clearly, degrading, in pre-collapse, in view of everyone. PSD knows that there is an alternative path to health, has presented proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u214	Only we don't see them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u215	... presented them in various State budgets, presented them in the parliamentary assessment of the SNS Statute,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u216	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u217	... but they were clearly plunged by the Socialist Party, due to their ideological and statistical vision. This cannot continue to happen, the PSD will continue to present its proposals until they are approved by the Portuguese in the forthcoming elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u218	For a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Cristina has repeatedly summarized the following wording: « We have presented, and the PS has led». True, this has happened several times, the PSD has presented initiatives, the Socialist Party has led. But I would like to ask you a set of questions about issues that the PSD has led, in particular, to the appreciation of the careers of the National Health Service. When the PS did not have an absolute majority — it is worth remembering — the PSD, with the votes of the other benches, could make the difference and have approved career improvements, wage valuation, etc. [[PSD protests.]] But in all these examples that I am going to give, you know what happened, the PSD has plummeted. When the Left Block proposed the appreciation of medical careers in the SNS, what did the PSD do? The PSD has plummeted; when we proposed the appreciation of the careers of SNS nurses, what did the PSD do? The PSD led; when we proposed regulating, first, and then valuing MCDT careers (additional means of diagnosis and therapy), the PSD said, in the first phase, that yes and, after we worked in the specialty, the PS threatened, and the PSD what did it do? PSD has plummeted. Therefore, Mr, the lead that led to these difficulties of fixing professionals in the National Health Service have the hand of the PS, it is true, but they have the hand of the PSD. I know that you will say, in a good parliamentary rhetoric, 'but the Left Block has been supporting the government between 2015 and 2019'. [[PSD protests.]] The problem is that there have been four years, since 2019, and we, who have been in a parliamentary agreement with the Socialist Party, were not subject to the Socialist Party. Who always yielded to PS blackmail was the PSD. That is why I am asking you: now the PSD has seen the light and recognizes that what has led was what professionals needed? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u220	For a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u221	Mr President, Mr Rui Cristina, I believe that when he speaks in defense of the National Health Service ( SNS ), the PSD should even ask for permission, taking into account its usual position, since it was the party who voted against the creation of the National Health Service. We can't forget that! [[PCP applause.]] The first question I would like to ask you, Mr Rui Cristina, has to do with the following: Mr speaks of the degradation of the National Health Service. We do not hide the difficulties because the same happens because, in fact, it goes through difficulties that need to be answered. Mr President, do you think that the PSD has no responsibility for the deterioration of the conditions of health professionals? The PSD, which frozen the careers ; the PSD, which destroyed the salaries of health professionals—as the PS gave continuity—; the PSD, which overburdened health professionals, spending their hours 35 to 40 hours without the consequent increase in salary, imposing an increase in time; the PSD, who told so many professionals to emigrate, now says: "Here is the King! , that we are the defenders of the National Health Service »? Oh, my God! We know what's behind this whole conversation. What is behind this conversation is the degradation of working conditions, it is the degradation of the situation of those who are the greatest resource that the National Service has: its professionals. This is in order for the SNS to lose capacity to respond to the needs of the population, and for this way the disgruntled population to accept the will of the PSD: if the National Health Service does not serve, we will experience something else, which is private. No, no, no! We need to respond to the needs of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u223	We need to strengthen SNS with more professionals, with more doctors, nurses, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. We need to correct the injustices that exist in the counting of points for the purpose of defrosting careers. We need to value health professionals. We need to be able to respond in time and time to existing needs, including examinations, surgeries and treatments. We don't need them to say that private is cheaper, because it's not! We know that song well! We know very well that it is much more expensive to buy private than to internalize and do within the National Health Service. This is like those who said it was cheaper to import than to produce here, and then it was seen how it was. Sir, tell us there, after all, where it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u224	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u225	I will finish, Mr. President. You, who have never been in favour of the National Health Service, which was the cause of its destruction, how do you want to defend the National Health Service with some credibility? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u226	I now give the floor to a request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the exercise that the PSD brings us today is an exercise of three tricks. The first is the trick that the PS is to blame.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u228	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u229	As far as this is concerned, we agree, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Of all that has happened in the National Health Service since 1975, in fact, what is good is the Socialist Party. We built it, with the vote against the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We assume this heritage, with great pride. Of course, there are times when we had to correct what came from the right side did. We are also very proud in reconstruction as we have done from 2015 to 2022. [[PSD protests.]] The second trick is this idea that we are destroying the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u230	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u231	Let's just remember a month. The right — well, and some left too... — was here to tell us: « They are destroying the SNS, with the closure of the gynecology emergencies! Watch out, the devil's coming! Do not keep on seeking. ” It's been a month and the jokes of newspapers that some people brought a month ago today can't bring them. Why? Because what we did was reform,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u232	He's gone to bury!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u233	...it was to provide security, it was to give stability, and today there is no single failure in the gynecology emergencies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a futurology exercise here. We will be here a month to discuss whether the measures and the plan we have put forward for the pediatric emergencies will bring or not the results we expect. The third trick is the PSD trick that says: "We are a party ready to rule. We have alternatives, we have proposals, and this majority is that lead'. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will plunge as many times as we need, because if the PSD response to solving the problems of the National Health Service is to deliver to the private and give up the public system, do not count on us! Our vote will always be against! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u234	Mauzão!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u235	That is why, in conclusion, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to underline what is obvious. The PSD hasn't met again, it's still waiting for the devil. Mr President, the question is simple: do you still believe that the devil is coming? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u236	To reply, Mr. Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u237	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block, Mr João Dias of the Communist Party and Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party. To make it clear, I repeat again in this House who built and who built the SNS was the Social Democratic Party,... [[PSD applause.]] ... which had political responsibilities from 1980 to 1995. Just go through the country, from north to south, and see the opening plates. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, the PSD defends today, as it defended 43 years ago, that it has to articulate the public sector with the private sector and the social sector, rejecting, once and for all, your statizing ideology. The truth is, in 2015 the PSD won the elections and it was you, it was your parties that made management viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u238	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u239	at that time, in such written agreement, where is the defense of health professionals? [[PSD applause.]] The truth is that in those years there were no structural reforms of the SNS, there was a degradation of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u240	Not a word!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u241	Aren't they workers? Oh, my God! There's the workers' defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u242	And the truth is, there were 5 million Portuguese people who had to use health systems and health insurance. Now, in the first 10 months of 2022, until October 2022, the Portuguese spent 1000 million euros, which was a record, with health insurance and subsystems. That's where he promoted the private sector. It was clearly you who supported management. It's very simple! [[PSD applause.]] For Mr Luís Soares, the Social Democratic Party is not a trick. The Social Democratic Party defends people, puts people at the heart of political decisions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u243	We have repeatedly put forward proposals for the SNS, to avoid this collapse, and you have plunged them, categorically, without hearing them, without analyzing them. [[PS protests.]] Let us, once and for all, look at the country, which has a little limited resources at the level of health. We cannot ignore such installed capacity. I'm talking to you about the heart.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u244	The private is from the heart, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u245	Once and for all, let's act. We cannot prevent these opportunities of contractualization with the social and private sector, in the management of health units.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u246	So which one? Social or private? Both don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u247	We must also go to exams, consultations and doctors, so that this is beneficial to people and also to the state, as is logical. It's enough of this kind of war that doesn't take us anywhere. The one who suffers the most is who is there at home. The one who suffers the most is who is in the Guard, waiting for a cardiology consultation and has to wait four years. Whoever suffers the most is who is in the Algarve waiting for an ophthalmology consultation because he waits for two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u248	When the time comes, always vote with the PS! It is the European consensus, they say! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u249	This is unacceptable in a country of the first world, as is ours. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u250	This concludes the period reserved for the PSD's political declaration. I'm going to appeal again to the ladies. Members who have not yet done so to appear in Chamber D. Maria II to exercise their right to vote. We have moved on to the political statement by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. To that end, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since October 2022, the inflation rate in Portugal has been correcting, moving from 10, 29 % to 8, 25 % last February. However, the slowing of the price rise of the generality of the products has not been accompanied by food prices. According to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), the rate of inflation of unprocessed food products rose again in February for the third consecutive month, setting itself at 20 %. It's the highest value in 38 years. Even this month, Deco Proteste noted that the price of an essential food cabbage has reached the highest value since they began to make this monitoring on 5 January 2022. This disparity in the behavior of the two inflation rates raises many reservations, even indicating that someone is benefiting tremendously from rising food prices. There are many narratives on this matter. The producers claim that the increase in prices in Portugal is largely due to the obscene profit margins of large companies, and only 20 % of the profit remains with farmers. This claim is confirmed by the official INE data, considering that in 2022 the costs of producing consumer goods increased only 12, 5 % and were therefore much lower than the average rise of 19, 9 % of food goods and the increase of 25, 66 % of the essential food cabbage. Afterwards, large distributors appear to refute these charges, stating that the food retail sector did not increase the marketing margins. According to data submitted last week by ASAE, essential foods have been sold with average gross profit margins of 20 % to 30 % in products such as white sugar, food oil and gold, from 30 % to 40 % in canned tuna, olive oil and golden cuve and from 40 % to 50 % in eggs, oranges, carrots and pig fever. In the case of onion, they were, in fact, more than 50 %. Since September, ASAE has intensified surveillance with operations throughout the country, which resulted in the establishment of 51 criminal processes by speculation, as well as the opening of 91 counter-ordering processes. in a new inspection action launched last Wednesday, ASAE detected new irregularities in supermarkets and hypermarkets, having introduced more 25 criminal processes by speculation of prices and 17 counter-ordering processes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, while the Government remains inert, doing no more than urging ASAE to proceed with the supervisory actions, continuing to object to not adopting measures involving loss of tax revenue, there is a reality that cannot be ignored. A steep rise in the consumer selling price of food products is taking place at the same time as the profits of food distribution companies. According to the annual barometer of the Deco Protest, 75% of Portuguese families are in financial suffocation, unable to pay their essential expenses for food and housing, and by September 30, 2022 Sonae increased its profits by 33 % and the same is said of the group Jerome Martins, whose profits reported on the same date also rose by 29, 3 %. We note that it does not cause us any rejection of the profits of large companies and we consider the private initiative to be the driving force behind the economy of a country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u252	However, in the light of a fair and equitable distribution of an economic crisis situation, it cannot be nor can it be acceptable for those who do not have what to eat to be sacrificed in order to increase the profits of the large economic groups. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In order to combat this objective speculation, the arrival proposes, among several measures, that a maximum limit of 15 % should be set on the gross profit margin in the marketing of essential food goods of the cabbage defined by ASEA, applicable to all food distributors. A measure to be implemented for six months, and only six months, and may be extended for the same period, if the circumstances giving rise to its preparation remain. This measure has the advantage of being able to be implemented quickly, with direct benefit in the Portuguese pocket and not in the State pocket, working much better than the allocation of subsidies, which will only contribute to increasing the speculative spiral and withdraw the slowdown of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u254	We understand the most accrual criticisms by some Portuguese right, claiming that our bill interferes with the market, but for the Arrival, the right to food is the most fundamental of the rights and should be explicitly enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Without this right, the individual has no autonomy, freedom, health or even dignity. In fact, without this right, the individual cannot live.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u256	Furthermore, the market economy finds its full functioning in a perfect competition environment, which does not happen in Portugal, whether in the fuel sector, where more than 95 % of the market is controlled by five gas stations, whether in the energy sector, where more than 90 % of the market is controlled by four operators, whether in the telecommunications sector, where more than 95 % of the market is controlled by three operators, whether in the banking sector, where more than 75 % of the market is controlled by five banks, whether in the food distribution sector, in which five operators concentrate almost 80 % of the sales. And it is these five operators that control the so-called "value chain" and which, through their dominant position, have the power to negotiate market prices, often forcing producers to reduce profit margins or tolerate disadvantaged conditions because they do not have alternatives. This observation is not communist, it is not socialist; this finding is realistic. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In addition, last year the Competition Authority sanctioned Auchan, Lidl, Model / Continent and Pingo Doce, together with a common supplier of juices, nectars and soft drinks and two individual managers, for having participated in a scheme for setting consumer prices for the products of that supplier. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State has the duty, as a regulatory body, to correct market abuses, without any ideological taboos or taboos. It is not worth continuing to blame the war in Ukraine because it clearly does not solve the financial suffocation problems of Portuguese families. The PSD and the Liberal Initiative do not present any alternative solutions and the extreme left or set administrative prices, which is clearly counterproductive. The truth is that the argument of economic crisis only works for some, those who can use it to multiply their wealth. And what's happening is unacceptable, it's unfair and it's the impious transfer of economic advantages from those who live only from their work to those who control production chains and distribution of sales goods to the public. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u257	Sir, you have a request for clarification. Mr João Moura, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to put it down.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u258	Mr President, Mr Rui Afonso, it is true that the cost of living in Portugal reaches worrying values. This phenomenon seriously affects the most disadvantaged, but also the middle class. the way socialism is impoverishing the country, almost no longer gives to distinguish the middle class from the lower class. Price escalation is more seriously reflected in essential goods, as he said in particular in foods, which suffer from rising galloping prices. In the face of rising food prices there is one question: are prices higher then producers, i.e. farmers, are earning more with this price increase? No, they're not. So who's making the most of it? Whoever earns the most is the government, it is the government that earns the increase in tax revenue. It is immoral, it is scandalous that the government is profiting from inflation and collecting revenue at the expense of the difficulty of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Another question arises: are farmers at ease in their noble food production task for the Portuguese table? No, they're not. Farmers continue to survive without the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. So what does the Minister for Agriculture and Food propose to deal with this increase in prices? It's practically nothing. The Minister proposes the creation of a price observatory, curiously something which she herself extinguished in 2015. Is it not enough that the government should, at least, return to the Portuguese tax revenues it is raising from the financial surplus with a galloping increase in prices? Last question: I will not get to the point of calling the debate the communism of the Arrival,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u259	You've called!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u260	... but I would like — because I am very curious, and I think that everyone in this House has doubts — to explain to what extent it is that fixing the gains, that the arrival, by the way, advocates, is different from limiting prices, as the extreme left also recommends. That's the point. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u261	It's just reading! Read and see the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u262	To reply, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u263	Mr. João Moura, thank you for this. Starting with the last question you raised, the difference between margin limitation and price limitation is that, in the price limitation, there is no difference between cost and sale and, basically, in the price table can actually arise in a situation of dumping, where sales prices may be lower than acquisition prices, while, in the margin limitation, not because they are the margins that are limited. So that's the big difference. Furthermore, Mr President, it is not so strange about this question of limiting food prices, because in the matter of limiting fuel profit margins, the PSD did not vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u265	I really appreciate this big question of raising the issue of communism now, when the PSD did not vote against with regard to the limitation of the fuel profit margins. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There is one thing I would also like to convey to you, Mr President: The arrival does not make politics to serve ideologies, the arrival makes politics to serve people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is the big difference between the other parties in this Parliament. We therefore believe that the measures will be the most appropriate by means of the political and economic environment that is currently taking place around this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u266	Today they're communists, tomorrow they're something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u267	Obviously, Portugal is going through a very difficult crisis. We have already realized that everything the seized state does not return to the Portuguese—and that is the big issue. It is very easy to say: "Okay, it is obvious that the state should ultimately return to the Portuguese the excess tax revenue they have taken from inflation. » But, I ask you, honourable Member: has the state done that? No, you don't. And that's not where we should go. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u268	Mr Rui Rocha has the floor to give the political statement of the Group of Parliament of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are indeed living a time of high prices which seriously penalises Portuguese people, who have had a significant, very significant breach of their purchasing power. It is in this context that there have been proposals for price fixing, margin fixing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u270	Margens, this is a matter of margins!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u271	... and this shows that, being bad, it is always possible to make things worse, as long as there are politicians available to make bad proposals for Portuguese and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u272	It's best not to do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u273	Price fixing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new step. There are examples in ancient Babylon, Athens, Rome and we can even look at some specific cases. We look at the United States, in the 1940s : the consequence was empty shelves, product degradation and then later, when the price table was lifted, inflation fired. Is that what we want? Is that what solves the problem artificially? Obviously not. There are no other examples from Portugal, Salazar and the New State, the Soviet Union, Cuba, Venezuela. And then, even in some cases, politicians are consistent, because they do not only set prices at times of crisis, they always set prices within or outside the crisis. What's going on? Price fixing does not work either in one case or in another. And there we have Argentina, with 102 % inflation. But be calm, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, why the following? Price table. What's going to happen, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It's not working. It is described as the effect of price fixing — or of setting margins, if they wish — of all these types of price controls. I'm going to read the first effect, which I've drawn from a book of economics, these basics that go around:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u274	Just read the basics!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u275	..."When we set the price of a fine below the market balance price, demand exceeds supply. We create conditions for the good to disappear from supermarket shelves and create conditions for a parallel market, where prices are balanced; even more so when we speak of a country in the euro area, where producers will sell where they know it is worth selling. Do not keep on seeking. ” According to the effect of the same book — falling in quality — ‘if economic agents cannot sell products at a fair price, they only have a solution to continue to compensate for them without damage: cutting in quality. Do not keep on seeking. ” Third effect: queues and parallel economy. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the case in consumer goods, it is the same thing in housing, with income control. For there we have: Berlin, income control and, soon, abrupt fall of the housing available for rent. Stockholm : everyone has the right to be in the centre of Stockholm. What's going on? Nine years of waiting for a residence in Stockholm. Ireland: income control. What's going on? Housing in the hands of the large funds, which are the ones with structure to sustain price control, and exit of the small owners of the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u276	Do you know Lisbon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u277	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if Spain does not reach them on the basis of data released about one week ago, income control, as a result: in one year, 17 % of the housing available for rent. There are the results of price control, of rental control, which we have heard in this House some political parties defend. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Members, price fixing, price control, freezing is a dream of radicals, populist parties who see a policy of 'burned land' in this possibility. And there are the PCP, the Left Block and also the Central Committee of the European Union to propose such measures. Everything, everywhere, at the same time, is the dream of these radical parties. And they are also the obvious candidates for the Hugo Chávez award of populism and demagogy. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Members, we know that these parties are populists, that they are statists and that they only see in this kind of measures the possibility of further intervention by the State, terraplanning the economy with the known consequences, but there are also other worrying signs. No PSD, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Pedro Duarte spoke on the issue of price fixing and said: « it is early, it is early». Mrs. Members of the PSD, I ask them in what circumstances it is appropriate to terraplan the country's economy. We have recently heard an appeal from the PSD Member to arrive on this subject of setting margins, but, ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what to do. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, an initiative of the Arrival was voted exactly like that brought here, and I want to tell you who voted in favour of this initiative of the Arrival: the Arrival, obviously — in its statistic aspect, Hugo-chavista, national-chavista of politics — and the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u278	Look at the polls coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u279	Mrs. PSD Members, where is your consistency? What do you think of price fixing? What are you going to do about these issues?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u280	You should be ashamed to talk about the Azores! You gave your hand to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u281	Mrs. Members of the PS, of course there are means, of course there is the Competition Authority, of course there is ASAE, of course all abusive practices must be punished — no doubt about it. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do not hide behind a stamp, move towards the reduction of taxes which the Liberal Initiative has systematically proposed here and which you have refused. That is to help the Portuguese, that is what must be done and the Liberal Initiative will continue here alone, if necessary, to defend the reduction of taxes and to refuse all interventions in the economy, the result of which will be direct damage to the Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u282	Mr President, the Bureau records entries for five requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u283	In two groups, Mr President, I first answer two and then three.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u284	In order to make the first request for clarification, Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u285	Mr President, Mr Rui Rocha, while I listened to him, I was able to understand what the Liberal Initiative does not want, but I have doubts about what the Liberal Initiative wants for the Portuguese. In fact, in addition to the books of economy, in addition to the Restelo, the Royal Prince or Foz, there is the common Portuguese, which needs concrete answers. Allow me to resume yesterday's debate, because, from the height of the vote that the Liberal Initiative takes up for itself, I have not seen any outrage in the face of an invertedness that has been told to us by the youngest minister of all time. The Minister told us that in 2022 no eligible young person was outside the Porta 65 programme, stating that 21 000 young people were supported. Now, Pedro Nuno Santos, while he was still a minister — he may not have sent this message to you by WhatsApp! — said that only 11 000 candidates had been supported. So there's a discrepancy here. The question is as follows: how was it that, with a budget increase of 25 % of the programme, the Minister was able to support almost 50 more candidates? I do not know whether there is a miracle of the multiplication of candidates or programmes, but I ask: how did the Liberal Initiative not realise this lack of certain accounts of the Socialist Party? He also did not mention that Mr. Minister's language trick lies in the word 'eligible'. In fact, who are the young people eligible for this program? In fact, it is those who manage the miracle of finding a T0 or a T1, in Lisbon, up to 580 €, or in Porto — a city that is towards the honourable Member — up to 460 €. The honourable Member knows that it is clearly impossible. Do you know how many young people got out of this program in 2022? It was 11 000 young people who stayed out and, indeed, this was the highest number ever, that Mrs. Minister tried to make makeup. The question is as follows: why have 11 000 candidates left out? It's because the eligible values are completely unrealistic and beyond reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u287	The arrival proposed the update of this program and of these values in 2021 and 2022. The Socialist Party promised to update them in 2021 and 2022, but we arrived in 2023 and have not done anything yet. It must also be said that the Liberal Initiative, either in 2021, or in 2022, voted against these proposals of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u288	There he is, there he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u289	Therefore, if they boast as defenders of young people and as the party of young people, they explain to them once and for all what they present to help counter this reality of the lease market, which is absolutely unrealistic for young Portuguese people. As they speak at low taxes, let me just remind you that the arrival proposed the exemption and suspension of the IMI (municipal property tax) and the IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) for young people. And in this case, guess what was the vote of the Liberal Initiative? It was against! Therefore, Mr President, please clarify, after all, what you have to do for the young Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u290	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u291	Mr President, it is not necessary to be liberal in order to wish for years that there were good liberals in Portuguese politics. It is enough to be pluralist and to miss the virtues that liberals had, at times, and of which they were arrogated:... [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] ...to be empiricists, i.e. to link to the concrete facts and change of mind when the facts change; to be pragmatic, i.e. to value what works. But what we now have is liberal, they reject empiricism and pragmatism. The Liberal Initiative recently made us a speech by Maria Antonieta: they don't have peas, they eat lentils, they eat hops or something even more expensive. The honourable Member gave us a speech in which he told us — trying to make all the other parties represented in this House radicals, with the exception of the Liberal Initiative — that price control will never work, will always fail, because it leads to a shortage of products, rows and a decrease in quality. So tell us what happened when, a year and a little ago, and you were in this Parliament! — the masks and the gel had their margins controlled? [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Was there a decrease in product quality? There wasn't. Was there a shortage? There wasn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u292	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u293	As for the rows, they occurred before there was margin control. In other words, at the same time as there is price control, we must not forget that there are other things too. That is why his example in relation to World War II failed, because, in fact, there was price control when there was to be and then when there was no more, of course there was an increase in prices. However, during the war, there was no shortage and there was no type of shooting at the prices that we are watching today. Therefore, dear Mr Rui Rocha, the radicals here — the only ones who refuse to face reality — are the Liberal Initiative. Look at one thing: when all political groups, all parties in this House, from left to right — social democrats, communists, wherever they come from — see that inflation is rising and that it is necessary to act, perhaps, when it is in contravention, it is even in contravention, because it is wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u294	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u295	Mr. President, I shall begin by asking Mr. Rui Tavares,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u296	You always start with the ladies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u297	... saying that the Liberal Initiative is a coherent party, because it defends what it believes and does it with enthusiasm, with assertivity. However, we will never put ourselves in the position of the honourable Member, which is to have this speech on the defence of the Portuguese, the wages of the Portuguese, but then when he reached the State budget, which clearly included a reduction in the actual wages of the Portuguese, he abstained. [[L. Protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, on this point, do not come with hypocrisy, because this is a huge hypocrisy, since you abstained from a Socialist Party budget that clearly brought down real wages to the Portuguese. So, in that case, he was calm and abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u298	No, no! The wage has increased above inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u299	Mr President, what I do not see you do either — and I take advantage of replying to Mrs Rita Matias — is to support the solution of the Liberal Initiative for Portuguese people, which was repeatedly presented in this House, which was presented in the State Budget of 2022 and which was then repeated, with adjustments, precisely to avoid the criticism that we wanted to benefit the highest incomes —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u300	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u301	... which we called the IRS of the uproots — a solution that had a single rate for the first five steps. The proposal of the Liberal Initiative is that the State, led by the PS government, does not embolden thousands of millions of extraordinary revenues, leaving the Portuguese, in fact, to the mercy of a very complicated situation, withdrawing the fruit from their work. In fact, Portuguese workers have the right to receive what they produce, but what the PS does — and with which you and the left agree — is to remove the product from their pocket. Well, that's what we don't accept, and that's helping the Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u302	For a request for clarification, Mr. Arthur Sovereign Andrade of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u303	Mr President, dear colleagues, members of the Ministry of Agriculture — in the immaterial way, I assume that they are out there, although invisible, since we are discussing food prices, the PSD believes that three situations must be distinguished. One of the first to solve the price problem by no longer having to sell, leaving the shelves empty. Another hypothesis, which is the one that defends the PSD, which is to help, giving means to those who need it most. And then there is an interesting modality, which is that of the PS, which is very curious: as the fault is ours, we choose to whom to deliver it and then they find an scapegoat that, in this case, have been the distributors. So it's everyone else's fault. However, what happens? What happens and is a fact is that the government, the state, the central power is brutally enriching with the increase in prices because it collects, through VAT and consumer taxes, a sdrüssel recipe that would not be in anyone's forecasts. What should the government do? It was to return that excess, but since it does not, we have this problem. The blame, then, is not who rules. A short time ago, a member of the socialist board said that the PS brings hope to this House. The problem is a lack of punctuation, because the houses where we need hope are those out there, because in this there is no great shortage of it. [[PSD laughter.]] In conclusion, Mr Rui Rocha asked Mr Rocha the following: does he not agree that he is absolutely illegitimate and unworthy—and that he almost makes the Portuguese ingenious, in a benign way, or fools, in a more aggressive way — the State raises the excess of revenue at the expense of the sacrifices of the Portuguese, saying after the guilt lies on the side or blowing off the side? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u304	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Rocha, the Liberal Initiative came here to judge that price control does not work. I hope that you will now have the opportunity to answer the questions that Mr João Dias has asked Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto about a set of examples in Portugal where there is already price control, and this has not led to a shortage of products. So I'm asking you the same questions again: have you ever gone to a pharmacy? There are thousands of medicines in the pharmacy whose price is controlled. Do you know someone from your family or do you have anyone in your friendship group who has gone through the regulated gas tariff? There have been thousands of Portuguese who have moved to the regulated gas tariff—which is a form of price control—and that, as I know, has not given up on the gas market. On the contrary, people have moved to the regulated gas market because it is much better than the free market. We also ask whether it has ever been to the Azores or Madeira and whether it has put gas or gas in the autonomous regions, where the price is also controlled? That's not why fuel is missing in the petrol pumps. On the issue of pandemics, I ask you if at the time of the pandemic you bought masks. There was a shortage of masks, but that was before, not when price control measures were implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u306	They didn't wear masks!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u307	What are you guys talking about? Members say that the model of price regulation does not work and do so because they are working on a fundamental mistake, which is to say that these markets exist in perfect competition, when there is no perfect competition in energy, no fuel, no large distribution. What is there is that the free market has led to the formation of monopolies, oligopolies and large groups, which control prices, but it is for the profits of these economic groups. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u308	That is what you don't understand because you only read the most basic books of the economy, you don't read the others. Mr Deputy, he mentioned several countries where there is price control in housing and said there were many problems in housing in these countries. Do you know Lisbon? Do you know the city of Lisbon, where there is no control over housing, where housing is delivered to real estate speculation and where people are expelled from the city?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u309	Good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u310	It is inspired more by examples such as the Netherlands — a country that is even governed by liberal parties — where a large part, much more than in Portugal, of housing is public. [[IL protests.]] Mr President, learn from experience, learn from reality and learn that there are different ways to manage prices, because there must not be a single formula. In view of the situation we are experiencing, this is a requirement that arises because, at the moment, it is not possible to continue to watch what is happening, without any kind of intervention, when people are living worse and the profits of large groups of distribution, energy and fuels continue to increase in an absolutely disproportionate way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u311	For a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rocha, first of all, no doubt we have an inflationary crisis — on the basis of, firstly, cover-19 and then also war — which puts difficulties in families. That is evidence that no one questions. Now, let's talk about answers to this problem. We can agree that the administrative fixation of prices, in itself, may lead to some difficulties, also at the level of stocks. We have no doubt about that. However, we can ask whether the market should not intervene. We can also question whether ASAE should not control the correct price margins or whether the Competition Authority should not identify whether there are profit margins above those that are legally desirable. This, to us, is relevant, to realize whether the Competition Law is, or not, being complied with. We can agree or disagree with the laws of competition, but they exist in our country and we must realize whether or not they are being complied with. Another issue, which is essential for us, has to do with some of the interventions of the Liberal Initiative — and I would ask the honourable Member, even as the leader of the Liberal Initiative — because, listening to them, it seems that the prices of essential products are not a real problem. We heard statements today about the price of peas. It is true that there are many people in Portugal for whom the price of bread, the price of carrots, the price of peas and the prices of essential products are a real problem, Mr Deputies! This is a reality for many Portuguese citizens. Whether or not this is evidence for the Liberal Initiative. On the increase in interest rates, we well know that he belongs to a political family that believes that inflation is resolved with European central banks to increase interest rates, forgetting that this crisis has a difference in relation to other crises. We're not talking about an offer shock; we're talking about a search shock. I therefore ask you whether you do not agree with the fact that the increase in interest rates still raises more difficulties for Portuguese families, more difficulties to pay for housing credit, more difficulties, too, for the whole package.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u313	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u314	Thank you, Mr. President, I will conclude. With regard to profit margins, we are already removing all other issues, we are already talking about profit margins at 50 % or 40 % in essential products. I would like to ask you if you do not think these are clearly excessive and if you are not above what the market should do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u315	Mr Rui Rocha, from the IL, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u316	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mr Hugo Costa. In my speech, I spoke very clearly about the issue of abuse. It is obvious that abuses must be investigated and punished, insofar as they exist, but it is also essential, that this discussion can be made seriously, that we have clear concepts of what are gross margins, what are liquid margins, what is profit, what are prices. It's good that semantics are correct. It is not worth poisoning public opinion with speeches on astronomical margins, when the margins in general in Portugal have a feature, which is to be small, unless they are talking about brute margins, and in this case the conversation is different, but this is not the criterion that, obviously, should be taken into account. I also agree that the price of products, in general, and essential goods, in particular, is obviously a problem for Portuguese people. I have no doubt about that. Where we diverge, and diverge in a very, very clear way, it is about the solution. The Liberal Initiative has repeatedly proposed, as I said recently, that there should be a relief from the IRS. [[Protests of L and of PS and PCP Members.]] It makes no sense — and in this I agree with Mr Arthur Sovereign Rodrigues — that the PS and his Government are concerned about the margins, are concerned about the re-establishment of an observatory, are concerned about fair price stamps and do not include, in their assessment on price formation, the impact of taxes on this training and that they continue, either from the point of view of direct taxes, IRS or from the point of view of indirect taxes, to have an absolutely extraordinary revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u317	You're disconcerting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u318	For example, I have heard the PS and the Government claim that the reduction in VAT in respect of fuels has saved the Portuguese high sums. Why is it not an intervention at VAT level, helping the Portuguese to have a less heavy life, since this is a time for everyone? As for what Mr. Arthur Sovereign Rodrigues said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u319	It's Artur Sovereign Andrade...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u320	... yes, it is completely unacceptable for the State, in this situation, to make an absolutely intolerable tax extraction and leave the Portuguese to the mercy of their fate. Yeah, it's intolerable. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u321	No answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u322	I had 20 seconds to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u323	To give the political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Redundiments, accelerated work rhythms with increasingly reduced writing, total deregulation of working hours, precarious working links, constant use of internships, low wages — this is the reality that affects thousands and thousands of workers of social communication. The economic groups of the social communication apply the recipe of always: exploitation, precariousness, devaluation of wages, rights and working conditions that are not guaranteed to workers. The Journalists study and working conditions: a portrait of a processing profession revealed an extremely worrying situation: more than 50 % of journalists were paid less than € 1000; more than 80 % had not progressed in their careers for at least 4 years; more than 60 % had worked more than 40 hours a week and only 29, 6 % had worked the number of hours provided for in the employment contract; more than 80 % had not received the overtime. We are talking about a study that is six years old, but, over the past six years, reality today must be much worse. The degradation of the working conditions of journalists and social media workers is also a reflection of the concentration of the ownership of the social media bodies in our country, which has counted on the complicity of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS. The situation of enormous fragility in which many workers in the media find themselves adds to the worsening living conditions, with the speculative increase in prices of essential goods and services, high inflation, while wages are devalued and workers continue to lose purchasing power. It is in this context that the action, intervention and struggle of the workers of the media is recorded, around the increase in wages, the recovery of the lost purchasing power and the strengthening of their rights. We welcome this intervention and the struggle of workers. There are ongoing processes of struggle of SIC workers ( Independent Society of Communication ), Expresso, TVI ( Independent Television ), TSF, RTP ( Portuguese Radio and Television ), Lusa, among others. The question of wages has taken on a great deal of centrality in the times in which we live. The demand, organised intervention and the struggle of workers have already forced the administrations of several companies to submit proposals. However, these do not correspond with their demands, being much less than what is necessary to value workers. I also highlight the action and intervention of journalists in the Newspaper ( JN ). In view of the uncertainty about the future of this newspaper and with a link to the community, journalists mobilize for the safeguarding and classification of the JN file and for the maintenance of the newspaper's editorial work in the current building, besides all the activities of the newspaper in the current building, an emblematic building in the city of Porto. In the public sector, the situation is also worrying, characterized by the de-investment in the RTP and Lusa, whose protection, the government, does not guarantee the necessary means and conditions, which is reflected in the degradation of working conditions. Proliferates the precariousness in the RTP, already with 200 workers, who perform permanent functions, with precarious links, having services and areas assured by workers hired by external companies, unbalanced careers, workers without progression for more than a decade, not taking due account of the value of workers' wages. In Lusa, the workers decided to move forward with four days of strike, in defense of the value of wages and the strengthening of other rights. With instability, precariousness, low wages, shortage of workers and reduced writing, there is no strong journalism. Freedom of the press is inseparable from guaranteeing the working conditions of the workers of the media. If workers are devalued, if their rights are not respected, if they live in a situation of stability and precariousness, if they are not guaranteed decent wages, it is freedom of the press that is at stake, it is the democratic regime that is impoverished. On the other hand, plurality and independence are called into question, with the concentration of the property of the media, a path that continues with the intention of Media Capital to acquire the Cofina group. The economic groups favour mediatism, manipulation, entertainment and spectacle to the detriment of information, news and objectivity. The fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the guarantee of the freedom and independence of the media in relation to political and economic power requires measures against the monopolistic concentration of the media, for information free of the instrumentalization of the great capital ; it requires the valorization of the workers of the media, the value of their wages, their careers, the guarantee of an effective bond; it requires respect and the strengthening of workers' rights. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we would also like to welcome the struggle of the workers of the CP train bars ( Portugal trains ) in this political statement. They have been struggling for about 15 days to pay late wages and to defend their jobs. Today, trains are running without bars running. This is the result of the outsourcing of services to private companies. We proposed that the President of the CP and the Minister of Infrastructure be heard, but the PS prevented them from providing clarification in the Assembly of the Republic. Why does the PS not want these clarifications to be provided? Do you want to prevent the government from being confronted with its responsibilities? The Government cannot continue to run away from its responsibilities. It is urgent to resolve this situation, to integrate workers within the framework of the COP and directly ensure bar services, to give stability to workers, to respect their rights and to pay wages in due course. Public and private sector workers are struggling. Tomorrow there will be strikes by the workers of the Public Administration. On Saturday there will be a national demonstration, convened by the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion ). Workers will make their voice heard by increasing wages and pensions, by valuing careers and professions, against increasing the cost of living. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u325	I take advantage of my compliments to all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paula Santos, the Bureau records five entries for requests for clarification from the Members. Members Jorge Galveias, João Prata, Mara Lagriminha, Patrícia Gilvaz and Pedro Filipe Soares. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u326	In two groups, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u327	So it's going to be a group of three and two. Thus, in order to initiate the first group of requests for clarification, Mr Jorge Galveias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u328	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, see the Portuguese Communist Party, the most communist party in Western Europe, concerned about the professionals of social communication and concerned about freedom of expression is something I cannot but point out and it is important to underline. I do not forget the persecution against freedom of expression and the sanitation of journalists in various media agencies in the times of the PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course), from the sanitation of Raul Rego in the newspaper to the so-called « sanitation of 24 » in the Newspaper, from assault on RTP to persecution to journalists who only did their work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u329	There were many fascists, they stayed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u330	Don't laugh, Mr. Deputies. It's not your time, but it's true and it's your party. [[That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u331	And I'm telling you, the Portuguese don't forget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I say more to you: I have never seen the Portuguese Communist Party apologize for these genuine attacks on democracy. We know what communism wants and defends for the media sector. Just see what Lula and PT (Workers' Party) are doing today in Brazil, pursuing journalists and media agencies. To shut up who thinks differently is typical communist practice, but it is not this practice that the Portuguese want. In fact, it is the most orderly people! Mrs Deputy spoke on RTP and I ask you if you have ever been to RTP and if you have any idea what it is like to work on television. It is that if I had this notion, I would not ask the dozens of freelancers to be employed in a television station, no longer being able to work with all the others. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u332	To make a request for clarification by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Plata has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to thank Mrs Paula Santos for the subject she has brought us and she has just explained. in commenting on the labor issue of journalists, in part of her speech, she also noted one of the pillars that helped, helped and will help the qualification of our democracy, in the regime we currently have in force. Yes, because the national press and the local press, whether written or spoken, will certainly be worth celebrating in the next year in the 50th year of April, in all the programmes that exist. So will this House, too, I think. This is the vote and intention of the PSD, in this initial note. In addition, I would like to say, Mrs Deputies, that the condition and qualification of journalism is, of course, due to the best training conditions in higher schools and, of course, to the working conditions, so that the exercise of the profession can be as exemplary and free as possible, also by the civic-pedagogical component inherent to this decisive professional activity. The journalists' demands are known. The difficulties are known why class professionals are going through. Just remember, for example, that Lusa's journalists have not achieved any wage increase in the last 12 years. They're frozen, I'd say. It is also known the unpublished intention to make a general strike of journalists, the will that happens for the first time. Regarding all this, the alienation of the Socialist Party's Government is known. The Minister of Finance did not want to receive them and the Minister of Culture took the Lusa workers to the Board of Directors with whom they have been negotiating. I would like to ask the honourable Member, given that the State has more than 50 % of Lusa's social capital and its workers are threatening to strike briefly if the government is not required under the public service contract to ensure the necessary funds to accommodate the demands of professionals more reasonably. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u334	For a request for clarification by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mara Lagriminha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to address the social media workers and the various trade unions that represent them, with which the Socialist Party has been meeting regularly. This hearing has been made by the parliamentary group, but also by the government. The note I leave is that, in this parliamentary group, we follow with concern the situation of social communication and, in particular, that of the workers of the Lusa agency, that the honourable Member spoke about. The debate proposed by the PCP also allows this House to reflect on the current moment and on the path we have made not only of the recovery of the investment in the Lusa agency but also in the public service of radio and television. We cannot ignore the de-investment and cuts made especially in right-wing governance and in the years of the troika in Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] It's true! And we cannot ignore the recovery that the Government of the Socialist Party began to do in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u336	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u337	What year are we in? Oh, my God! [[Listen!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u338	We remember the joint work that was done to regularize precariouss, through PREVPAP(Special Regularization Program of the Precarious Links in Public Administration), in the RTP and Lusa, or recently with the new public service contract, which gives greater predictability and stability to the management of Lusa, which you have not done. That is why in this debate we have to look at these values, which in 2013 were reduced to EUR 10 million, and it was already with the Government of the Socialist Party that, progressively, have been increased, and are located in this current contract, at EUR 13 5 million. [[Protests by PSD Member Alexandre Poço.]] It is this progressive path that must continue to be made and we will be here to continue to do so. We need to know whether the CFP will follow us, because it is also true that the CFP voted against the State budget which contained the largest money for the social communication, 41, 6 %, which provided for the reinforcement for Lusa and which also provided incentives for regional and local social communication, in a 12, 5 % reinforcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u339	It's just precarious, cowardly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u340	I also recall that the CFP voted against the Dignified Work Agenda, which also reinforces collective bargaining, social dialogue, combating precariousness and valuing wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u341	Mrs. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u342	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. If I wasn't constantly interrupted... [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u343	Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u344	“Lagrimina” because she was interrupted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u345	That is why, in the context of collective bargaining, one must find a way that respects, on the one hand, the rights of workers and, on the other, of course, the economic viability of the company. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr President, on our part, we will continue to favour social dialogue, respecting those who work daily and contribute to the democratization of information in the territories and where social communication has a fundamental role. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u346	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u347	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions raised and start by answering the question of Mr. Deputy of the Party. If there was a party and if there is a party in which the issues of freedom and democracy have always been present in their struggle for more than 100 years, it is the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]] This speaks for you. Our intervention and our struggle speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u348	Look, no, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u349	What is recorded in this debate is that, on the specific issues that we have brought about in relation to the situation of workers of the media, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, from the Chega side, there was no word. [[Nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u350	When workers are struggling for the value of their wages, for working conditions, to combat precariousness on the side of arriving, there is nothing. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] This shows that, indeed, although the CFP has brought this issue up, it is in fact a party that has been supportive, alongside the workers, in the fight for the defence of their rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u351	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u352	With regard to the questions put by the PSD Member, I would like to mention the following: in his speech, he referred to the workers of Lusa, who have frozen wages for 12 years. I remember that PSD and CDS have great responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u353	And you don't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u354	There are responsibilities on the part of the PS Government and the PSD Government and the CDS, which did not effectively take the necessary measures to ensure the valuation of workers, their wages and their careers. The PSD also has this responsibility. Let me say that throughout all these years the CFP has always put forward concrete proposals and defended the value of wages. Mrs Mara Lagriminha of the Socialist Party referred to the Dignified Work Agenda. But, Mrs Deputies, the truth is that the lapse of collective bargaining continues in the law and is very detrimental to workers, particularly to those in the private sector, because it is an instrument that enables them to value their wages and strengthen their rights. Once again, PS and PSD, with the support of the other parties on the right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u355	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u356	... have prevented such expiry from being revoked, which would effectively enable this valuation of workers' rights and wages. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] Let me say more: reality shows that the proposals of the State budget are very insufficient for the needs, so the CFP voted against. Reference was made to the PREVPAP process. It is true, but at RTP, it was not even completed, the situation was not resolved for more than 30 workers. But more than that, when the PREVPAP process is completed, it continues to promote and encourage the hiring of workers with precarious links. There's about 200 workers coming! What does the government have to say about this? Oh, my God! What does the Socialist Party have to say about this? Oh, my God! With regard to working conditions, they have direct responsibility for workers, with regard to RTP and Lusa, which are under the protection of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u357	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u358	I will finish, Mr. President. Wages, working conditions, investing in the technological modernisation and innovation of RTP : I have not heard anything about these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u359	We will now move forward to the second group of Members who will make requests for clarification. For the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, social communication is one of the pillars of open and plural democracies and there is no free democracy worthy of that name without a free journalism. The Liberal Initiative values freedom of the press as a fundamental right, which is, and should not be, subject to others, much less political power, hence we defend the freedom of journalistic companies in relation to government safeguards. Only in dictatorships is journalism is subject to political power and this is the model of society that defends the PCP. We must remind you, I think, that it was the fact that the CFP voted against the constitutional review that allowed the opening of private television channels in Portugal, allowing it to end the monopolization that existed on State television. I remember that the CFP was in the government during the 70s, when most journalists were statisticated, their free voices did not exist and were silenced. [[Laughing from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u361	Blue pencils, that's what we need to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u362	Journalist scrutiny is fundamental, Mr. Members, because, without him, there is no true democracy. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u363	That's bad to lose!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u364	A journalist who is an official of the State and who depends on the government to have his salary cannot do the polling that is part of his mission, in his duty as a journalist. These restrictions can also happen in times of absolute majority governments such as what we have, and that is easy to prove, taking into account the successive lead that the PS makes to the comings of the ministers to the committees of this Parliament. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u365	The PCP today hypocritically comes to bring this issue, taking advantage of the situation of our journalists to shake one of their flags. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative does not ignore the precarious situations of our journalists. We know that they have low wages, that there is a high level of unemployment, but, more than that, we are effectively concerned that journalists have access to decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u366	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u367	Only with strong companies, with a growing economy and with the end of the heavy tax burden that all Portuguese have is that these problems will be overcome, and never with government subsidies, which only allow the domestication of our journalists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u368	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u369	I shall conclude, Mr President. With this, I ask the CFP : do you consider that journalism must be increasingly free of State intervention in order to carry out its electoral mission? Admitting that yes, in what model of society could there be a more free journalism? In liberal democracies such as those of the European Union, or in countries such as Russia or China? I conclude with a word of encouragement and strength for all our journalists, for I am sure that, as far as it depends on them, they will never allow any power to instrumentalize them. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u370	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, there is a manifest problem in our society and in our democracy. It is that when we do not value the press, democracy is at stake, and there is no freedom of the press without decent conditions for its professionals. This is a serious failure that is happening. It is enough to look at the numerous redundancies, for the lack of writing conditions, for the memory that is going to be lost and also for the loss of the journalist's demanding capacity. Why? Oh, my God! Because there is an employer class that tries to subject them to their dictates and sometimes even there are employers who seem to want to be journalists in this context. This is unacceptable and, on the left side of the Block, it deserves unequivocal condemnation. We believe that the state must have a role in defending a free press. That doesn't mean ordering the press, but defending rights for those who work. It is therefore essential that the State begin by doing so in the economy in general and also by guaranteeing it where it has a role. You are not doing it, for example, in the entire RTP group, or in the Lusa, where you have that role. From that point of view, the State can and should set a good example. With this example, you must demand more for the private and ensure that we do not have a press that is weakened in its fundamental value, which is the service that does for democracy. As far as the Left Block is concerned, they can count on us to defend these rights and this democratic safeguard, which is a strong and free press. It's her we need. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u372	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u373	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put. Our Constitution says that the freedom and independence of media bodies must be ensured before political power and economic power, and what we have seen in our country in recent times is indeed a concentration of the ownership of media bodies in economic groups. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] I note that in her speech, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, she did not refer to what has been the work of these economic groups and what this means as regards the loss of plurality and independence, as mentioned here. This has greater significance in the exploitation, reduction of writing, acceleration and increase in working rhythms, and also in the devaluation of workers. That's what happened. The result of what you are defending, which is the privatization of the press, is in sight, with the concentration of economic groups in our country. Did you solve any problems? Oh, my God! He didn't solve any problems. The problems have worsened and the situation of social media workers today is exactly a reflection of this situation that we live in our country. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of course, we understand the set of references he makes and we have had the opportunity, in our speech, to say that freedom of the press and the defence of the democratic regime are not dissociated from guaranteeing working conditions, valuing the work of journalists, valuing the work of all the workers in the media, whether the public sector or the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u374	I could have talked about the newspaper consortium of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u375	These were exactly those issues that we also wanted to bring about, because in fact, the workers are developing a set of actions, with intervention, with struggle, as I said, that we welcome and which, of course, reveal the defence of their rights, just and legitimate, and also the defense of the principles of our Constitution, of freedom of the press, independence and plurality, which must protect and safeguard, as well as the values that our Constitution enshrines. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH Member's protests Jorge Galveias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u376	We thus conclude the intervention and political declaration of the CFP Parliamentary Group. We now turn to the political declaration of the Left Block, with the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Since March 1st, about 130 workers from the long-term train bar service of the CP are struggling. The situation is not new, but it now takes a dramatic proportion for the lives of these workers and their families. In February, the current dealership Apeadeiro 2020 informed the workers that the wages of that month would not be paid and that the company would present a special revitalization plan. In addition, as early as January, the company did not pay the salaries on a timely basis, due to a high level of bank balances ordered by the State. These about 130 workers are then in a very worrying situation. They received the salary of January late, did not receive the salary of February, March remains an unknown and see their jobs in question. Several days ago, camped in Santa Apolónia and in Campanhã, in protest for their rights and wages. It might seem, through this report, that there is only one person in charge, Apeader 2020, but it is not. The government, through the CP, a company that directly protects, has an unequivocal responsibility for this drama. Why? Oh, my God! Firstly, because the use of private external companies for this service has been the choice of the CP and it had not to be so, until, in addition to the life of these 130 people, the bar service in trains is concerned, with damage to users. This model is no good for anyone. Secondly, because it is the CP and the ministerial guardianship that they need to know about the companies that provide this service and, incredibly, they always end up being companies that leave the workers in a situation of permanent uncertainty. Thirdly, because the conduct of this process by the CP and the Government has consecutively neglected the employment situation of these workers, when it had an inverse obligation to ensure that all jobs are insured and the rights are fulfilled. It is therefore not acceptable for the CP, a 100 % public entity, not to take a speedy position and not to take the course of the proceedings, since it is the contracting authority of this service and therefore chooses who lends it the same according to the criteria it determines. Again, the outsourcing of this service and its non-internalization is a determining factor for situations like this to continue to repeat. However, already on 8 March, after an attempt to negotiate between the Government, the CP and the Appetizer 2020, it was realized that there would be no conclusion from that in defence of workers and jobs. After that, already on 10 March, the CP announced that it would trigger the legal mechanisms with a view to resolving the concession contract, thus moving forward for a new competition with a new concessionaire. Even today, after a new meeting, the reports are not encouraging and, in fact, this whole process can be extended over time between resources and releases of new contests. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, while all this is going on, there is still a problem: there are 130 workers who still have no wages and, if the general situation of loss of purchasing power, wage stagnation and the brutal increase in prices, it is already a difficulty for Portuguese workers, we imagine what it will be for those who do not receive wages. The Left Block Parliamentary Group therefore requested in 6. the Commission, the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, the hearing of the Minister of Infrastructure, João Galamba, the Board of Directors of CP and the FESAP, the Federation of Trade Unions of Public Administration and Public Entities. The responsibility of the State in this case is obvious to us and therefore we need further clarification from the guardianship and commitments to solutions. But what did the Socialist Party do? Oh, my God! It has led to this request. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at present there is no justification for these 130 people who remain unpaid for this PS decision. It is simply not there, and saying that the Minister is coming here next week is not enough. In fact, this, now, is the Socialist Party habit. Ministers in Parliament are like « the devil fleeing the cross ». They do not come, it is not possible to confront them with concrete problems, which so often refuse to hear directly from workers, as in this case, and it is not possible to perceive which solutions are equalized. So today we want to again leave a word of strong solidarity with these workers. For those who have cried a lot for the entrance of the private by the railway sector inside, we already know that this solution, as you see, is not worth the one who works, nor is it worth the provision of the transport service. For the PS and for the Government, the time at this time is responsible for these 130 people who provide a fundamental service to the public transport service and who is currently not insured. So we will insist on a new requirement, because we will not give up getting answers and solutions. These workers are essential for the operation of trains and the concession is an obsession that is destroying public service and leaving workers without wages. The question is: how long will the Socialist Party allow this situation to continue? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u378	The Bureau is still taking note of the inclusion of Members in order to make their requests for clarification to Mrs Isabel Pires. [[Pause.]] Looks like we've got the list closed now. Three Mrs were registered. Members to make their requests for clarification: from the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera of the PS, Mr José Carlos Barbosa and Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs Isabel Pires informed the Bureau that she will respond to all together. Then, in this case, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, I would like to thank you for the reference to the process of these workers at Apeadeiro 2020, who are in this absolutely unbelievable situation. But it is also unbelievable that, in addition to the government, it is irresponsible for workers of a public enterprise, also the Assembly of the Republic, through the vote against the Socialist Party, to take responsibility for the situation of these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u380	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u381	We are talking, in some cases, about couples, situations in which, therefore, no income is coming in. If the gentlemen. Members in this situation would probably want to confront the President of the COP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u382	He's coming for the week on Wednesday!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u383	This is a situation that cannot be accepted for several reasons, of course, because these workers have been moving from company to company for years. I remember being in a concentration of Risto Rail workers just before they were on the 2020 Platform. These are always the same workers, companies are changing. And what's going on, too? These practices remain to leave payments behind, debts to social security and out there. In view of this, the government does nothing and does not assume these workers. Therefore, the question I wanted to ask you is whether you know, or whether there is any long-run train that can travel and travel hours without drinking water, without any bar service, and if there is any train that may not be cleaned frequently. But we can also ask other questions! Do you know any hospitals that can run without cleaning? It's a sad idea, isn't it? Oh, my God! Apparently, the Portuguese State considers that these workers are not essential to the operation of these services, because it does not internalize them, it has no contract with these workers, as it has for workers with other functions. What can explain this, but the fact that it is the State itself, at the moment, to encourage precariousness, to promote precariousness, making workers move from business to business, to services that are their responsibility and that are of direct protection? In conclusion, I would also like to ask what you can explain so much insensitivity to workers who are at the moment making a camp, a vigil, days and days, fighting for their rights, fighting for what they have right to be paid to them? What can explain, too, the insensitivity and inaction on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party, which shamefully joins this inaction of the Government? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u384	For a request for clarification by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr José Carlos Barbosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u385	Until the end, someone who knows something about trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make it clear that for the week, Mr Minister will be here and that this will have the opportunity to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u387	That's conversation! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u388	Is that a conversation? Oh, my God! You want to see he's not coming in fourth?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u389	Then I would like to say that, of course, we have accompanied the problem and we have a great deal of concern with about 130 workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u390	Will you go there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u391	Then you have to tell the story and you don't realize these attacks on CP administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u392	What's the story? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u393	As you know, this concession scheme is already over 20 years old, the CP administration launched a competition, won the company at the lowest price and was awarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u394	Nice service!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u395	Unfortunately, these types of contests often have the lowest value as a criterion, and in this respect we all have to reflect. We must reflect whether we want to continue to build a country in which the lowest price can continue as a criterion for hiring workers. [[BE's protests.]] We need to reflect whether we want to continue with a country in which outsourcing is used, as the Liberal Initiative defended last week, when, taking advantage of a CP strike, I wanted to criticize all the remarkable work that CP has done. And did it with you, when the PSD was in the government,... [[Ah!]] [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u396	... made the repair of the rolling stock, the hiring of workers, the opening of workshops. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not a CP problem, it is a problem of the Public Contract Code, it is a problem that makes us all responsible for changing these criteria...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u397	You sucked our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u398	... that often leads us to choose companies that do not have financial capacity or technical capacity to win the contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u399	But they were able to choose the company!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u400	Mr. Member, the CP has terminated the contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u401	He didn't fire anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u402	The CP will urgently advance with an invitation to tender by the end of the year for the hiring of a company that will be granted the bar. During this time, CP will reflect and study if it will internalize the service. So I ask you: do you agree with the termination, with the study to grant, or not, or to internalize? I give you the example of the Convel, automatic train speed control, which has just been internalized, because CP realized that the partner that had no ability to solve the problems. It'll be the same here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u403	You guarantee that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u404	That is the work we have to do, with criteria. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u405	Now, to make a request for clarification by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to thank the intervention of Mrs Isabel Pires, the Left Block, and to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group is in solidarity with the 135 Portuguese families who are currently experiencing difficulties, given the absence of payment of their legitimate wages. Many of these workers, I know them because they come from Valença, Porto or Braga to Lisbon and vice versa. So first of all, I leave a word of solidarity. Then I would like to tell you, in particular the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, that the concession may be 20 years old, but this is 1 and a half years old, because it was the CP and the PS Government that launched the concession on 1 August 2021, for 2 and 6 years and 8 million euros. [[PSD applause.]] Indeed, since February, the Appetizer 2020, has not liquidated wages, already in January had these problems and the fact is that neither the government nor the CP understand themselves. The Government has ensured, through Mr. Secretary of State Francisco Frederic, that the CP would immediately denounce the contract and proceed with an urgent invitation to tender. On the 8th day of this month, the CP had neither denounced the contract nor advanced with any public tender. Unless it was this morning or this afternoon and we do not know that the complaint and the new public contest are actually under way to be launched. But more serious than this lack of understanding is that there is no solution to the problem. Already in January there was a problem, in February, it was dramatic and we are in mid-March and government and CP have no solution. Mr. José Carlos Barbosa said that they would do a study to decide whether they would continue to grant the service or whether they would internalize it. No, what workers want is to receive their wages, to cope with their day-to-day difficulties, their lives and their families, their bank credits. They don't want to know if there's more or less one study.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u407	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u408	They want problems to be solved, they do not want to delay the problem, because the longer the problem gets worse. Therefore, a solution to the problem will be presented on the PSD side. We will follow the Left Block, as we have accompanied it in the vote on its demands in committee on this matter. They can count on us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u409	In response to the three requests for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Alma Rivera, José Carlos Barbosa and Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, bound by questions. I want to leave some notes. First of all, on the question of the outsourcing of certain services, including bars and cleaning, as has been mentioned here, which happens in the case of the CP and, indeed, in the Assembly of the Republic and in general public institutions, from our point of view, it is a mistake, because it allows these situations. In the case of CP, this has been happening for several years very often in the case of cleaning and also in the case of bars, and are situations of companies that gain exactly by the lowest price criterion. But, Mr. José Carlos Barbosa, I gave you a new idea: in past legislation, I myself tabled amendments to the Public Contracts Code, so that it would not be the criterion that counts, precisely to avoid such problems and not to be the institutions of the State, the public companies, to promote this precariousness, and the PS lead. Therefore, you cannot now say that you are making a great reflection on this model. Mr. Member, we have 130 people, 130 families, who do not have wages and do not eat dinner reflection. They do not eat at dinner a supposed guarantee that the parliamentary group here gave and that we would like it to be confirmed: will there be internalization of these workers or not? That is what I said in your speech and the solutions are necessary. In the case of the application and the hearing, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you know as well as I do that, which is not the case — you do not want to answer the problem. This is because the Minister and the parliamentary groups, with the request, would have the opportunity to have a specific time only for this matter and not for a panoply of very important matters than the 6th. the Commission, in particular, has and which are immense only for one minister. Therefore, this is just an excuse for those who do not want to provide clarification, it is an excuse for those who want to be irresponsible about something that is their responsibility. Minister João Galamba has not yet had a decent word for these 130 people and that is what was expected at the moment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be very careful to ensure that the compromise which has been apparently made here today by the PS is fulfilled and that these people can be internalized. Finally, I leave another question on the competition. He also said there could be a new competition by the end of the year, but I ask again: meanwhile, these families and these workers receive what? Oh, my God! They're out of pay! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no hesitation here about the role of the government in this matter. I am sorry — I am sorry, I regret the Left Block and certainly regret the workers — that we continue with this attitude of the Socialist Party towards these workers, because now, Mr President, we could solve this very quickly, and we could have done it many years ago, if we finally decided to internalize this type of service. That, yes, would be the right choice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u411	We therefore conclude the political declaration of the Left Block Parliamentary Group and now we move on to the political declaration of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. To that end, I give the floor immediately to Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increased cost of living and the threat of social exclusion and poverty is one of the main concerns for those living in Europe. Climate change and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine are the main sources of anxiety for the collective of European citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u413	That's ecomarxist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u414	It is a war that has accelerated all transition movements, whether they are energy or digital, and today we need not only to replace fossil fuels with other sources of energy, as we have been forced to do so. But our companies and the technologies of our factories, our homes and our lives are dependent on these fuels, largely supplied by the two countries in comparison. On top of a terrible pandemic that affected the Portuguese economy, the country had to adjust in real time in different areas, such as health, education, logistics chains and support for industries and small trade. If we want to be fair, we know exactly how hard we have worked together. Europe has lost quality of life and the feeling of security has again been questioned, a fundamental condition for the proper functioning of markets. This led to inflation reaching 9, 3 %, the highest value of the last 30 years. We introduced measures that allowed the price index to change in 8, 2 % in February 2023, and the energy product index also decreased for the fourth consecutive month to 1, 9 % instead of 7, 1 % of the previous month, and the index for unprocessed food showed a change of 21 % to 18, 5 %. In the energy sector, a decisive sector, the government has implemented the right measures and made a huge effort to save private companies and to ensure tranquility for many Portuguese families. in a winter that could have been dramatic, the Government of the Socialist Party realized that the energy sector, in electricity or gas, could achieve incomportable values for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u415	He's touching!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u416	By ensuring a decrease in network access rates and increasing weight in renewables, the effect of long-term contracts, we allow for an increase in the number of customers in the regulated market and the implementation of the Iberian mechanism. Compared to Europe, the Socialist Party's measures ensured that electricity prices were lower than the average of the European Union and Spain in domestic and non-domestic segments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u417	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u418	Compared to Europe, the Socialist Party's measures ensured that electricity prices were much lower. VAT has also fallen from 13 % to 6 % and we have injected more than EUR 90 million with more than 85 % of consumers. With the strengthening of the social tariff and the 33 % discount, we arrived at more than 757 000 beneficiaries in December 2022, when in 2014 there were 46 000. As regards measures to support companies in the gas sector, I mean that more than EUR 2000 million was injected in industrial consumers. Defending our productivity was one of the great options of the Socialist Party Government, which allowed a reduction of costs from 23 % to 42 %, depending on the various scenarios. The Support Programme for Intensive Industries in Gas, with EUR 235 million, in which more than 180 companies have benefited, is proof of this adjustment and of the knowledge of reality. It was understood, however, that it would also be necessary to extend it to the processing and agri-food industries. at the same time as it is known that there is still much to be done in many areas in Portugal, electricity prices in the industrial segment, excluding deductible taxes could be below the European Union average, but also Spain, Italy, Denmark, Belgium and Germany. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The lifting of legal restrictions allowed access for more than 250 000 families and small businesses to the regulated market. Despite all the measures listed, government action has not ceased to have a strategic view of the sector, in particular in order to meet targets of decarbonisation and energy transition. In fuel there was also the fixing of maximum margins practiced by operators. I recall that the bill was generally passed by Parliament on 17 September 2021, with votes against the arrival and the Liberal Initiative, with the abstention of the PSD and votes in favour of the PS, Block de Left, PCP and PAN. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I came to Venezuela, said some who sit on these benches,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u419	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u420	... but today they've changed their mind! [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u421	As regards the reduction of fuel taxes, particularly VAT, from 23 % to 13 %, I must say that, without the measures to reduce the tax burden in force, the Portuguese would have paid much more for gas oil or gasoline. Extraordinary support has been given to the freight transport sector, emergency services, public transport and, with the support of 10 cents per litre of fuel, we cover more than 145 000 farmers. We were able to ensure in 2022 that the average daily market price for electricity in Portugal was €167, compared with the €167, €52 in Spain, recorded in the same period. Portugal was the sixth country in the European Union with the lowest average monthly energy price and presents the second lowest average price in Europe on the daily market with around 96, 55 €. Actually, we know it's not all right. We know the land. We're face-to-face with people. The energy sector has shown that it is possible to reconcile strategy with security of supply and even to contribute to lower inflation in Portugal, but it is necessary to analyse and continue to introduce measures in the sectors with more difficulty and to control the 'overruns' of certain sectors. In the end, it is mandatory to continue to defend Portugal and the Portuguese. That's what we're focused on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u422	Mr. Deputies, we have registered the Members. Deputies Duarte Alves, Pedro Pinto, Inês de Sousa Real, Hugo Carvalho, Carlos Guimarães Pinto and Isabel Pires to make requests for clarification. However, before giving the floor to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has relevant information to transmit to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u423	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall report on the outcome of the election to Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic, which took place between 15 and 18 hours: Proposed candidate, Jorge Manuel de Valsassina Galveias Rodrigues, by the Arrival; Voters, 198; In favour, 58; White votes, 112 ; Empty votes, 28. In accordance with the applicable rules and in view of the result achieved, the proposed candidate is declared not to be elected to the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u424	Before we proceed, I ask Mr Pinheiro how he wishes to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u425	Mr President, first to three and then to the other three, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u426	Three, three, all right. We have therefore moved on to the first group of three requests for clarification, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I give the floor immediately to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP and Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, said here that there is a need to control the profit margins that have been obtained by energy companies. In fact, we agree and, as I know, the government even has a legal instrument, i.e., it has all the instruments it has requested, in particular the decree-law that allows it to intervene on the margins. But last week we questioned the Minister for Environment and Climate Action, who has the protection of energy, about why the government has not yet intervened, when it is clear that there is abuse of the margins, particularly the oil industry, just look at the margin of refinement of the Galp, which, year after year, has passed from $3.3 / barrel, and they have already made profit, to $11.6 / barrel, which is an extraordinary increase, and the Minister told us that he does not intervene, because the law that the Government proposed to the Assembly of the Republic says that there can only be a proposal from ERSE (Regulatory Body of Energy Services ) and that no proposals have been made. If you identify that, in fact, there are abusive margins on the part of not only oil but also EDP and other energy, are we waiting for ERSE? Because it's the ladies. Members did not approve the CFP proposal, which did not depend on ERSE that type of intervention? If you have now found out that it is necessary, in fact, to go further, then submit a proposal, that we will be here to approve these measures that give full freedom to the government to intervene on the margins of oil and large energy. We have heard the Minister of the Environment say that he agrees that the regulated tariff is an important instrument of consumer protection and that it should be made permanent and that it seems to be what he stands for at European level. Question: Why do they not apply this measure here? Why do they not make the regulated tariff permanent which, in fact, has been consumer protection in both gas and electricity? The Government has also said recently that the review of the European energy market has fallen short of what was needed. We fully agree that marginalistic logic continues to be a very harmful logic for consumers who pay electricity produced by renewable sources at the price of gas, which is the highest price. What, then, are the consequences of this finding being withdrawn by the Government and the Socialist Party? Mr President, I would like to ask you one last question: did you talk about the Iberian mechanism, you talked about a set of measures — and it is true that the Iberian Peninsula has much better energy conditions than the centre of Europe — then because the government is committed to increasing links to the European market and, in this way, to no longer have these privileged conditions in the energy market, becoming on a market with much worse conditions and much more expensive as the central European market is? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u428	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u429	Thank you very much, Mr President, I welcome you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro did what Socialists used to do in political declarations, i.e. paint the pink country! But, Mr President, let me give you something new: of the Portuguese who are at home no one has come back in your words. Because you've spoken, you've spoken, you've said that now you're responsible for climate change, war, this, this... you've spoken, you've spoken, but you haven't said anything...! The Portuguese at home every day, when they pay their bills, don't feel what the honourable Member said from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u430	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u431	Did you talk a lot about health, education, support... Health and education? Oh, my God! Bring the theme of health and education to this debate, with teachers all on the street, with health the way it is in Portugal? Oh, my God! Bring these issues to this debate, for God's sake! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u432	We're talking about energy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u433	Mr President, how do you explain that 30% of the deaths in winter are because of people who have no money to heat up their homes, particularly the elderly? How do you explain that? How does it explain the energy poverty that exists in Portugal? I will also give you another novelty: you know that from January to February a couple paid 35 € of gas, now you pay 70 €. I received a message from a restaurant owner, whom Mr. Deputie even knows quite well, saying that in January he paid 300 € of gas and, in February, paid 727 € — from 300 € to 727 €! And ends the message saying: « It’s not easy». It is not easy, because that is what the Socialist Party has done in Portugal to the owners of restaurants, small entrepreneurs. I repeat: this is what you have done and life is not easy for these people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There are dramatic situations in our country, Mr President, and no matter how much you say no, as much as you say that everything is going well, it is not! Explain what they want to do to the lives of the Portuguese. What do you want to do to the life of the common Portuguese, who gets up every day to work and put food on the table? That is what you have to explain and failed to do there that pulpit. Explain, in particular, why are the Portuguese paying twice as much in gas, or electricity? How is it that the Portuguese, from January to February, are paying twice as much, when you say that you've dropped everything, that you're going to put it all down? Oh, my God! It's a lie! It is false, because when people get bills from light and gas to pay, they get something else and not what Mr. Deputies said. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u434	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u435	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this PS political statement, there are some points on which we can see ourselves, but then, in the way they execute them and materialize, we have already gone to mere propaganda that may be a real concern about relieving families. Let us see: we have been discussing here the General Account of the State of 2021 and we have noticed that, in the Environment Fund, the Socialist Government has chosen to spend EUR 489 million with EDP than, for example, in the energy transition, particularly in wind or soft mobility. While for EDP, it was EUR 489 million for this type of investment, it was EUR 8 million. Mr President, one day we cannot come here to say that we are all very friends of the environment, but, at the time of implementing public policies, choose to be with the major energy producers, fossil fuel, among other things. On the other hand, the PS Parliamentary Group, in its discussion of the State budget, rejected a proposal from the NAP aimed at extending the social energy tariff in this case in particular of gas, families, like what has already happened in electricity. How is it that, in view of all this context in which families are being completely strangled by the increase in the cost of living, with inflation, with the interest rates to be increased — a reality that had already occurred when we discussed the State Budget here — the PS opts again to not directly support. As far as the energy transition is concerned, Mr President, the regulation which has been adopted in this Parliament to authorize the Government to regulate the maximum price ceilings for fossil fuels has never seen the light of the day. So I ask you if you think that the government is doing everything it should do to effectively relieve families rather than, once again, relieve the pocket of those who pollute and profit the most, leaving an absolutely unsustainable bill for future generations and, above all, undermining the cost of living for families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u436	To reply to this group of three requests for clarification, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u437	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Members and I begin with Mr Pedro Pinto, saying that we are in fact looking forward to doing things and thinking things and that reality is also well known by the Members of this House of the Republic. We know each other well and all know perfectly well that I would very much like the arrival to have a kind of action to introduce policy measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u438	Take them! Take them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u439	... but at the same time, he had the critical ability to introduce to the side of the recipe where we're going to cut to make certain actions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am sorry to say to you that at no time did I say that it was all right; I said that the Socialist Party's policy measures, with regard to energy matters, had clear results in how the inflation of energy products is much lower in relation to other areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u440	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u441	In addition, I assume that there is a need in some sectors for the revision of « over-the-counter ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u442	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u443	The policy with which the Socialist Party has acted in relation to energy is, in fact, also to position ourselves on certain issues. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] We live at a time when we have to introduce research and development levels in the energy transition, also spoken of by the NAP, but where, above all, we had an obligation to contain certain areas and to introduce mechanisms that would help families and businesses. It is not easy, often, to get this kind of exercise done in real time. Absolutely surgical measures were introduced in the sectors where this price holding could be objectively made, in particular by addressing families, small and medium-sized enterprises, domestic and non-domestic consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u444	So why does the gas increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u445	at the same time that we cannot stop the train, the way Portugal should continue to do this transition exercise. We believe that it is perfectly possible to pay attention to how this energy transition, Mrs Deputies, should continue to do and at the same time respect quality of life at such a difficult time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u446	Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u447	Mr President, Mr Pinheiro, I would like to congratulate you on the subject which you bring here and which comes in some way to continue the exercise that the Government has already done here. In fact, the government started this afternoon saying that it was coming to assume that prices are low, but this is not taking. Something should have been done, worked, when we walked, since 2021 in this House — and you heard me several times! — to say that energy prices are rising systematically, and there was still no war. This when, in 2022, we went all year saying that there was going to be inflation and the Prime Minister would devalue the inflation that was going to be... It should have worked, and it is not now, when energy prices start to stabilize and when they have already contaminated all other goods and services, all other prices, come to say, as the Prime Minister said yesterday: "Well, this no longer has to do with energy, here is all right. Do not keep on seeking. ” And then the gross error that the PS continues to repeat in this House: to say that the price was controlled because of the PS. It was not because of the PS, the PS had no budgetary effort. And I'm not going to get tired of showing the Socialist Party the general economic interest cost chart of the system. The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. There are overcosts that have been paid by consumers because they are committed to consumers. Do you know what happened in 2022 and 2023? There were 7 billion euros of winnings! It was EUR 7 billion that paid for all these policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u448	Do you know who made the CMECs (Contract Balance Maintenance Costs )?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u449	Do you know who dropped prices? It was the renewables, it was the renewables!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u450	Do you know who's betting on renewables?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u451	Mr Hugo Costa is very upset because he voted in favour of revoking Decree-Law No 35/2013, which is giving these profits. There was the PS vote! [[Protests of PS Members.]] It was designed by the PSD. It's true, it's true! Any day it just takes to come at the end of the power bill a little hand of the PS saying « vote in us, thank you very much! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is, in fact, fantastic. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, the question is this: if we had an inflation of 0 % tomorrow, what happened was that prices remained high for all these people who are no longer able to pay them. Therefore, there are those who wish, even in your government, even within the PS, to administer prices. The question is why they do not start by administering the prices of the government itself. When will the PS Parliamentary Group be available to reduce VAT, to exempt energy VAT, which is exactly what we have been asking for for a long time, instead of always going in this exercise, a bit already tired, from the government to say that it rained when we all realized that it has rained a lot? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u452	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u453	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, I have heard you say that the reduction in the tax burden on fuels has resulted in the fall in the price. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u454	I am very grateful to have said this, because it is important for your bank and for your neighbor's banks that understand this, i.e. that tax reduction in consumer products leads to lower consumer prices and, concomitantly, the increase in tax burden on the same consumer products also makes these prices increase. Therefore, in saying that, what you are agreeing with is that, indeed, today, the greatest weight that exists in the price of fuels is that of the tax burden, because if that tax burden did not exist the prices of fuels would be much lower. I would also like to know whether this is confirmed and whether a reduction in VAT on foodstuffs would also lead to a reduction in the price. This is because this is the only way to be consistent with what I have said, that is, it is argued that fuel prices have fallen because the government has decided to lower taxes on fuels, so it must also defend, in order to be consistent, that one way to reduce the cost of food is also to reduce VAT. According to the accounts presented, the Portuguese State has already benefited between EUR 6000 and EUR 7000 million from additional taxes only thanks to inflation and that value would be sufficient to compensate for VAT reductions in food prices, it would be sufficient to also lower the IRS rates so that people would have more money in their pocket in front of this. And once again, as you admitted, in your intervention, that the fall in the tax burden of your Government had caused the price of fuels to be lowered, you must also admit that the fall in IRS would lead to an increase in wages and that the fall in VAT would lead to reductions in the prices of consumer goods. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u455	For the last request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u456	Mr President, Mr Pinheiro, mentioned several issues concerning the crisis we are experiencing and listed some of the measures that have been taken in the area of energy, which also involve limitations, either through the Iberian mechanism or by price limits or margin limitations. over the course of today we have had several debates that affect the problem of inflation and what is limited or not limited, but the question we have already asked and what we are doing again is still important. If, in the case of energy, this limitation methodology worked, why does it not work for what is currently seriously affecting the daily life of Portuguese and Portuguese people, which is the price of essential goods? It is that there is a brutal incongruence in the Socialist Party's speech on this matter and, therefore, we reiterate a question we have already asked today, and that we will once again ask the Government to have at least a coherent answer, because so far it has not. Why do some price control mechanisms serve certain matters, but not for others? Mr President, if we want to respond to the crisis that the country is going through right now, we must be consistent and if we want to be consistent, we cannot say that a given mechanism is useful for energy, but then it is not useful for essential goods. It is that, at the end of the day, those who suffer are the Portuguese and Portuguese who, as has already been said and as the data indicate, are reducing the consumption of essential food goods, and that is not acceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u457	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u458	Mr President, I would like to present concrete facts which are so often requested in this Parliament. In a statement made by ERSE yesterday it is said: « ERSE — Energy Services Regulatory Entity, updates the price of regulated market energy tariff, at € 5 per MWh, with effect from April 1, 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] ‘For most domestic customers in the regulated market, the update represents a reduction of approximately 3 % in the monthly average electricity bill. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u459	Just one more! [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u460	I know that for those who have never done anything, it is sometimes difficult to receive data this way!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u461	No, no! Why are people paying more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u462	And it continues: « For the year 2023, the update of the estimate of the acquisition cost of the CUR ( last resort marketer) points to a deviation of €73, €04 / MWh from the implicit forecast in the prices of the energy tariff in force until March. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u463	Let's accept! Accept that it hurts less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u464	The way the Government of the Socialist Party has managed a very fundamental thing such as energy is at least what is asked of a government in such an essential area as this one. We were able to have a price of 13 €/ MWh compared to France on the Electricity Spot market on 16 January 2023, with 135 € / MWh,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u465	Somebody's winning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u466	... in Italy, with 134 € / MWh, in Germany, with 129 € / MWh, in Greece, with 204 € / MWh, in Holland, with 133 € / MWh. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u467	Somebody's winning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u468	In fact, we can only be very, but even very proud of the way in which we have been able to make an important contribution to the country's inflation not to be higher. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u469	But who's winning? Oh, my God! The Portuguese are paying more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u470	You have to go to the regulated market! [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u471	We have more requests for speech, from now on by Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u472	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u473	Is it really for an interview with the Bureau? You're gonna talk to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u474	I will, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u475	Then you have the floor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u476	Mr President, it was to ask you, if you have this kindness, to distribute to the PS bench another fact of the Energy Services Regulatory Entity, which is a simulation made today for a family with two children and shows that the reduction of the regulated rate appears in 18. the place in front of all other offers on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u477	Certainly, Mr. Deputies. Let us get the document and we will do it - we will immediately distribute it to the whole Parliament. We therefore terminate the political declaration of the PS Parliamentary Group and we also conclude the political declarations. We will pass the fourth point of our order of business that has to do with the appreciation of Petition No 9 / XV / 1. a ( Pedro Manuel Regueira Valadas Coriel et al.) — In defense of the Park of Generations, against the proposed amendment 308 of the PDM de Cascais, which drags the Resolution Projects Nos. 181 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government preserve and value the Generation Park as a fundamental axis of a national skate development and promotion strategy, 249 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generations Park as equipment of public interest in order to avoid its destruction, 470 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of the Generation Park as equipment of public interest, 511 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generation Park as equipment of public interest and 512 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Rescue of the Generation Park. We greet the petitioners and we shall immediately give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to present her initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u478	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners here and greeting them not only for bringing this issue to debate, but for the work and citizen mobilization they have had. The Park of Generations, which we discussed today, emerged from a citizen initiative, in a participatory budget in 2017, which mobilized a whole community around not only the sports practice of skates, but also an area of enjoyment, leisure, intergenerational living and gathering students who carry out this sport practice. More than a skatepark is, according to what we also heard on the site, a community aid site where there are currently other types of services and, above all, where friendships are developed and where the socialization and leisure of the various families and people that pass through are promoted. But this skatepark is of greater importance, as it has already hosted national and international champions. I speak of figures like Gustavo Ribeiro, a Portuguese skater who won the gold medal at the 2022 World Championship, the silver medal in 2023, and who won the 8. place at the 2020 Olympic Games, and this was only possible thanks to this space and the community that benefits from it. It is only that this space is at risk of disappearing, due to a policy in contrast to the design of promoting communities, leisure and sports, to give rise to the construction of a road link. In addition to the destruction of the Generation Park, this policy endangers the health and safety of the resident population, as it will also mean an increase in pollution and road traffic. What the petitioners ask — and what the NAP accompanies — is very simple: that the Generations Park be classified as a property of public interest, thus avoiding its destruction and allowing it to be valued, re-qualified and expanded. Here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the NAP is proposing and advocating is that all efforts be made to halt this amendment to the Cascais PDM (Municipal Director Plan) which threatens the continuity of this space. For the first time, the compressor roll of the absolute majority can be very useful to us by standing next to local communities and new generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u479	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u480	I shall conclude, Mr President. We call on the Government to recognize the Generations Park as the fundamental axis and model of a national strategy for the development and promotion of skate practice and, at the same time, as a property of public interest. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one day we cannot praise citizen initiatives and, on the other, act counter-cyclically, so the call for these initiatives to be adopted to ensure that these citizens are here today: a long life at the Generations Park. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u481	To present your initiative and your party, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u482	Mr President: I would like to welcome, firstly, the petitioners, and say that as politics in recent years has been less about how to earn or build new things for the people and much more about how to cut down and manage the crisis, we have lost the spaces of conviviality and sociability, what a sociologist calls « palaces for the people», what politics was made, in the time when politics served to improve our lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u483	And now they don't serve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u484	We lose libraries, schools, parks, gardens, and we risk losing those we already have, that we have already conquered and that serve, like the Generations Park, populations of various ages, of various social classes, that are there, moved by the same love of public space and community activity. That is why we gladly join the initiatives of various parties, and we will support your movement so that the Cascais Municipal Director Plan does not destroy what has already been built. Although it may be necessary to end level crossings, as it is intended there, there are certainly other ways of doing that do not go through destroying a space that will not be a " Palace for the People", but it is certainly a space of convivial, sport, sociability, a space for those who, today, are very lacking — and after the pandemic they still do more — and that, with the help of civic movements like yours, we will have to build more and more. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u485	To present the initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u486	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to greet the petitioners for the defense of the Cascais Generations Park, which in total were more than 8000. The Park of Generations, already said here, was opened in 2013, after having been the winning project of the participatory budget of Cascais in 2011 and since then has become a reference place for sports practice, particularly for skate, having in 2017 won a new candidacy to the same participatory budget for its requalification and expansion. It is to be remembered that this requalification should have been done within three years, something that has not yet happened. This space is very much used for sport and leisure practice, being to point out, for example, that the Olympic athlete Gustavo Ribeiro, currently the 3rd paragraph of the world-wide fashion, has used this space as a relevant part of his trainings. We must also not forget that this will further enable the use of this type of equipment, together with the younger ones and not only. Now, the Town Hall of Cascais, in the review of the Municipal Director Plan, included a proposal for an amendment that provided for the road link of the Marginal Road to Rue Egas Moniz, in order to close the level crossing of the railway station of São João do Estoril. This is, in fact, the only level passage that still exists in the Town Hall of Cascais, and the security reasons referred to are obviously important. However — that is the understanding of the petitioners and that we share — the option to solve this security problem cannot be to cut down the Generations Park in the middle with an open road. This option to solve a security problem creates another serious problem, also road safety, now, and in addition to the destruction of the public space. For this reason, and because we follow the concerns regarding this whole situation, we present a draft resolution which has several aspects. On the one hand, we consider it necessary to classify the Generations Park as equipment of public interest, so that it can be safeguarded and, on the other hand, that the infrastructures of Portugal guarantee the closure of the level crossing, finding a solution compatible with the preservation and enhancement of the Generations Park. Finally, we believe that it is necessary for this park to be integrated into national sports and skate training routes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this type of equipment and spaces, which have been created by choice and choice of citizens, cannot be removed in this way, should not be attacked, for the sake of the enjoyment of public space and also of sports activity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u487	To present the Resolution Project No 511 / XV / 1. a, of the Socialist Party, now has the floor Mr. Miguel Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u488	The skate man! Future candidate for the Cascais Municipal Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u489	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today it is celebrated or 49. the anniversary of the Revolta das Caldas and therefore I wanted to begin my intervention by greeting the soldiers who, with their courage, took over the April Revolution, which gave us freedom and democracy. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] It would also begin by welcoming the more than 8500 petitioners, who are also represented today in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic, who were able to bring this debate to this House. That would be a good reason for this discussion not to be confined to the municipal bodies of the House of Cascais City Council, but this is more than that. This debate is about a sports equipment of an Olympic mode, of international reach—yes, it was in the Generations Park that began training the world's skate champion, Gustavo Ribeiro, our citizenship—but it is also an intergenerational, interclassist equipment. This is a debate about the removal of a level passage in the railway station of São João do Estoril, on the country's second busiest urban line, with more than 30 million passengers per year, where yesterday still died tragically, an 18-year-old young man, the fifth fatal victim of recent years. Now, this is a level passage that urgently ended and that was, in fact, the theme of my first legislative question as a Member, when I arrived at this House, only two weeks after taking possession, in 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u490	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u491	In the 1990s, when the Socialist Party ruled the Cascais Municipal Chamber, it made the first plan municipal director ( PDM) and reserved for the effect, in São João do Estoril, a channel space between the Rua Brito Camacho and the Strada da Alapraia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u492	You miss Judas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u493	In 2009, with a socialist government, the Cascais Municipal Chamber, then already governed by the PPD / PSD and the CDS, signed a protocol for the construction of a lower road passage, having been defined that it would be the responsibility of the Cascais Municipal Chamber to carry out the project of execution, acquisition of land and the execution of the work. It's been 14 years, they didn't do anything! Nothing they did and the level pass continues. In the meantime, a lot has happened. In 2011, on the proposal of the Socialist Youth of Cascais, the participatory budget was born in this municipality. The citizens organized themselves and, soon in the first edition, the Generations Park won, being inaugurated in 2013. In 2017, citizens organized themselves again and again the Generations Park won, with a work of expansion and improvements that has already begun and that we hope it will be completed soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u494	Who did this work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u495	But soon after what happened, to ignore the will of the citizens? The Town Hall of Cascais began to prepare a change to the municipal master plan so that the lower road passage, which suppressed the level passage, would stop passing on the Rua Brito Camacho, as was planned, and would arrive at the gate of the Generations Park. Yes, there, where the children walk, where the young and the least young skaters walk, they want to reach one of the busiest national roads in the country. But if the error in the planning of the territory is the matter of the autonomy of the local power, the Assembly of the Republic cannot remain indifferent to the destruction of this sports equipment. And that's what the House wants to force when it didn't need to. The House says that it will bend the lower road passage to one of the ends of the park, but it is not worth saying—as you have said and as you wrote to this Assembly of the Republic—that it will not take space or equipment to the Park, because that is what is planned and that the House wants to do. You gave up the former canal park, why? Was it because you built there, in the wake of the municipal plan in force, a parking lot that was supposed to be temporary? Do you do so on the basis of negative opinions from the central State? He says yes, but then he refuses to give the authors and the municipalities those same opinions and, in response to questions that this parliamentary group made to the State, the central State authorities say they do not know any of these opinions. And, after a protocol made 14 years ago, we, with the tax money of all, are paying for the new implementation project through the IP ( Infrastructures de Portugal, SA ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u496	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u497	...because the Town Hall of Cascais didn't, but he should have done it and he could have already finished the level crossing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And who's going to pay the tunneler who supposedly says it's going to be used to build this passage, when in recent works, of even greater magnitude, they haven't been able to use it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u498	You guys! [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u499	And, worse than all this, what about the vertiginous approach of the execution project to the coastal top? This, in an area where erosion caused by the sea is a real threat which, for security reasons, has already forced large investments and temporary closure of Marginal Avenue. Also, as an author in the Municipal Assembly of Cascais, I voted against this municipal director plan. Also because of this failure to comply with national law, I filed a complaint, as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, and the Government has already referred this illegal municipal director plan to the General Inspection, so that it can be monitored and properly inspected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u500	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u501	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when replying to Parliament, the President of the Cascais Municipal Chamber said that this petition was populist up to the medulla, which was based on false assumptions and the threat of loss, and that he wanted to preserve the integrity of the Generations Park. Well, what results from the facts is that the House's assumptions to give up the canal park are false, it's an option of Carlos Carreiras to build the level passage there and actually threaten the Generations Park. The building says that ‘reasonability has been away from public life for a long time’ — it is a citation of his response — but it is up to each one to judge the reasonableness of sacrificing a sports equipment of manifest public interest to preserve a parking lot; it is up to each one to judge whether to fail to comply with the 2009 protocol and not to discharge the responsibilities he has assumed; it is up to each one to judge the reasonableness of calling populists to 8500 people who have signed this petition and who struggle to protect a valuable equipment. from the PS side, we do not call them populists or liars, we call them citizens, we thank their participation and we clearly place ourselves next to them for the defense of the Generations Park. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u502	To present the Resolution Project No 512 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u503	Miguel, Rui Tavares and Inês didn't hit palms! And you hit, it's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u504	Hit, knock! You guys were being careless!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u505	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners and thanking them for the theme they bring to the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to begin by saying that the construction of this park resulted in a proposal for a participatory budget. Often this kind of mechanism is used to give an air of openness to civic participation, serving, at the same time, for the authorities to exempt themselves from their responsibilities, making believe that the non-building of equipment A or equipment B happens because it did not have sufficient votes, thus shaking the hood of the responsibilities of the authorities themselves in the construction of these equipment. After giving yourself this air of civic participation, these projects lie outside, as is the case with the intention of the Cascais Authority in relation to the Park of Generations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the marking of this debate has an unfortunate present, after more a fatal accident at the São João do Estoril level crossing. There is no doubt that it is necessary to build an alternative to that unsafe passage. The alternative was planned, or rather, is planned in the PDM still in force, and is not in the Generations Park. Only the Cascais Authority says that the solution had to be passed to the Generations Park because, explains the Authority, a recommendation was made by the infrastructures of Portugal. Thus, one of the most important skateparks in Portugal, with national projection and even international projection, is called into question an area of coexistence and enjoyment of public space for leisure and sport. The local electors of the PCP and the CDU have, since the first hour, put this issue on the local level, positioning themselves on the side of the population and the skater community, who have mobilized in defense of this park. But we also bring a draft resolution to the Assembly of the Republic, bearing in mind that, according to the Authority, this solution comes from a recommendation of the Infrastructures of Portugal. The CFP therefore proposes that the Assembly of the Republic recommend to the Government the following: first, that, through the Infrastructures of Portugal, develop studies and projects for a speedy elimination of the level passage of the railway line of Cascais, in São João do Estoril, ensuring the adoption of a proposal to trace that safeguards the Park of Generations ; second, that, in the process of development of the solution for the elimination of the level passage of the railway line of Cascais, in São João do Estoril, a psychosocial study be carried out, so that the project meets the aspirations and needs of the population of São João do Estoril ; third, which frames the practice of the skate in the National Route of Sport, in particular in the strategic areas of outdoors and tourism, promoting the practice of this mode and disseminating the best places for the same, where the Generations Park is included. This is the initiative that the CFP brings to debate. We will continue to intervene here in the Assembly of the Republic, and also at the local level, in the municipal bodies of the Cascais City Council and in the Cascais Municipal Assembly, to safeguard the Park of Generations and respond to the need for another solution to quickly solve the enormous risk that represents the level passage of São João do Estoril, a solution that is compatible with the demands of the population to maintain the Generations Park. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u506	Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u507	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, promoters of Petition No 9 / XV / 1. the, in defense of the Park of Generations, against the proposal for amendment 308 of the PDM de Cascais. The Park of Generations, located in São João do Estoril, is the largest skatepark in Portugal and was born of the commitment of the citizens. This unique space, of high importance to all those who admire and practice this modality, is, as the name indicates, attended by people of all ages and social strata. It is also a space that promotes the convivio, social integration and practice of exercise, of the community and of those who visit it. Two important issues are at stake, which gave rise to this petition. One, which concerns the population, is that of the security, or lack of it, resulting from the still existing crossing of the level of the railway station of São João do Estoril, the only remaining in the Town Hall of Cascais. And in this we all agree: it is by pressing the closure of this level passage so that serious accidents do not happen again, making the station, and who in it circulates, more secure. I take advantage of this intervention to express our condolences to the 18-year-old's family who, yesterday, was fatally picked up by a train in this level passage. The other issue is the preservation of the Generations Park, and that the same is not affected by the future road link resulting from the closure of this level passage. We are also aware that the same lacks maintenance and is in need of recovery works, such works already planned, resulting from a participatory budget that does not want to be removed, making the park more dangerous for those who attend it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u508	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u509	The gentlemen. Petitioners claim that skatepark will be damaged by amendment 308 of the PDM; for its part, the Cascais Municipal Chamber ensures that the park will not be affected and that it will not suffer any negative impact. It should also be noted that the work for the closure of the level crossing and for the road alternative is the responsibility and competence of the infrastructure of Portugal. It was shamefully not foreseen in the IP investment plan until 2040, announced by former Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. However, and in conclusion, the Party will request, together with the Cascais Municipal Chamber, to clarify why it decided to amend the PDM now in force for this site. We do not understand, nor do we accept, that the infrastructure of Portugal has not included in its investment plan money for the completion of the work of closing the level crossing at the station of São João do Estoril, and its alternative, which has long been planned. How many more accidents will be necessary for the government to take a responsible attitude? As already mentioned in the committee, we will monitor the development of this matter carefully, ensuring that the law is and will always be complied with. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u510	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u511	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have here today five initiatives on the Generations Park. Let's see them all, they're all great. We need to save the Generations Park. There is no need to have a project of ours because the projects on the table are enough and we do not need to signal virtue or give fat to users and promoters of the Generations Park ; they know very well where we are. We take advantage of this discussion to highlight two aspects that this case of the Generations Park is an example. It is an example of the force that can constitute popular mobilization, because this project did not win the participatory budget once, won two! In 2013, for its construction and, in 2017, for its improvement. Moreover, when the Authority intended to change the MDP, the proposal that most complaints obtained was exactly what it said about the relocation of the passage that would most affect the Generations Park. Now, this petition, with almost 8,000 petitioners, shows what is possible when citizens mobilize themselves and do not give up what they think is right. Unfortunately, this case is also an example of the State's malfunction. Of course, because neither the infrastructure of Portugal nor the authority of Cascais provide clarification to anyone, they do not share opinions, they do not explain why it was necessary to change the location of the lower passage and then, again, because the state — in this case, the local state — is slow. Almost six years have passed from the 2017 participatory budget and only now is that, in fear and in part, the project is starting to be implemented. Therefore, if it does not serve anything else, that this debate serves to honor the efforts of the community of the Park of Generations, to finally have its problem solved and safeguarded and its clearly defined status, and that the local state and the central state have a little bit of shame, that they are a little less opaque and a little more speedy. If you get anything like that, it's worth it. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u512	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the more than 8500 petitioners, also for the exercise of the right to petition. The petition in defense of the Park of Generations defends the preservation of the skate park existing in Cascais, used by several generations, by lovers and professionals of this modality, and the non-approval of the proposal 308 of the review of the municipal director plan of the Cascais Authority, for the adequacy of the new legal regime of the territorial management instruments, because according to its subscribers, the same question concerns the safeguarding of the Park of Generations. In this municipality there is a problem recognized by all — the authority, population, REFER and infrastructure of Portugal — that of the need to suppress the level passage of the railway station of São João do Estoril, which lacks a short-term resolution, thus avoiding more fatal victims, which implies the construction and / or modification of existing road axes. Information was requested by 13. the Commission to the Town Council of Cascais on the allocation of the Park of Generations by road works which it considers necessary to carry out. In a written reply of 5 August 2022, and in a public declaration of 2021, the Authority ensured that the Generations Park would not be affected, that any road solution must preserve the integrity of the Generations Park and that it will never close doors during any intervention that will be carried out in the future. The Authority made an investment in the construction of the Generations Park and intends to re-qualify it at least with an amount allocated to it through the 2017 participatory budget. [[PSD applause.]] We believe that those who invested in space with the dynamics and recognition obtained as the Generations Park will not want to destroy it. In this plenary, there are also draft resolutions of the NAP, the Free Book, the Left Block, the PS, and the PCP. All these draft resolutions have in common the recommendation to the Government to classify the Generations Park as equipment of public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u514	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u515	The PAN, the Free and the Left Block go further and also recommend not ratifying the proposal for amendment 308 to the municipal plan of Cascais. The PSD argues that Parliament's powers, beyond its legislative function, only affect the fulfilment of the Constitution and the monitoring action of the government, not regional governments or decentralised services of the Public Administration or local authorities. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD also defends respect for the competences of each legally constituted body, the separation of powers and the autonomy of local authority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u516	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u517	Moreover, this was the position taken by the PS when, at the hearing of the subscribers of the petition under consideration, they recognized that it was a political decision of local competence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I reaffirm that I can only believe that whoever invested and created the Generations Park, through the participatory budget, which gives so much to the municipality of Cascais, will do everything to preserve it and to put it to the service of the population and its users. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u518	The local power has similar powers, enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. As a concept of democratic decentralization, it was first given relevance to local power in the 1911 republican Constitution, and the expression « local power was resumed in the 1976 Constitution. [[PSD applause.]] The democratic local power is considered one of the greatest successes of Portuguese democracy and plays a dominant role, mainly in the management and planning of the territory, assuming itself as a dynamizer of local economies. Any attempt to interfere in the action and decisions of the local authorities is an attack on the autonomy of local power, democracy and freedom. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u519	You have to go to the Generations Park, Your Honor! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u520	Look, I'd like to finish if you don't mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u521	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, let Mrs Gabriela Fonseca finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u522	Really, what a lack of respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u523	"Democrat is the one who practices democracy and not the one who only claims himself. » — Francisco Sá Carneiro. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u524	With this quote by Francisco Sá Carneiro, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca finished her speech, but she has a request for clarification from Mr Duarte Alves's PCP Member. I don't know if any of the gentlemen. Members of other parliamentary groups give time to Mrs Gabriela Fonseca in order to be able to respond to the request for clarification that will be made by Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u525	We can give.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u526	We can, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u527	I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves because, however, there seems to be very great generosity on the part of Parliament. Mr Duarte Alves has the floor to make a request for clarification to Mrs Gabriela Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u528	Mr President, Mrs. Gabriela Fonseca, if the problem that identifies us is that we are talking about something that must be dealt with on the local level, rest, because several parties that have intervened in this debate... [[I was speaking!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u529	...have also intervened on the local level, in municipal assemblies, including the electors of the PCP and CDU, who have had this intervention at the local level since the first hour. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Now, the problem is that it is the Town Hall of Cascais that pushes the problem to the Infrastructures of Portugal. Therefore, if it is the City Hall of Cascais itself which puts the problem at the level of the infrastructure of Portugal, it is not to be admired that we can bring this matter to the Assembly of the Republic, because whoever has the protection over the infrastructure of Portugal is still the Government of the Republic. What the honourable Member cannot disguise is that both the PSD in the Assembly of the Republic and the City Council of Cascais are completely opposed to the positioning of these petitioners and this population who want to maintain the Generations Park. And they do so because the alternative mixes with economic interests, which is why they do not want to respect what is currently in the PDM. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u530	In reply, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca has 1 minute and 41 seconds, the time that comes from now on is worth referring to the generosity of the parliamentary groups of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. Mrs Gabriela Fonseca has the floor to reply to Mr Duarte Alves. I was just grateful that there was silence, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We're almost done, we're gonna be fine. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u531	Mr. President, I welcome you. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Liberal Initiative and the time is coming. I won't need that much time, just enough to say that what is at stake in the petition and in the draft resolutions is the preservation of the Generations Park. The Town Hall of Cascais, through participatory budgets, created, built the Generations Park and gave the guarantee that it will preserve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u532	He didn't do a single maintenance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u533	And, as I said, I can't believe that no author in this country makes investments over the years to then throw them out and destroy what was done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u534	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-16.u535	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me to read the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start for 10 hours. The first item on the agenda consists of the annual debate, with the presence of the Government, on Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( b ). the law of monitoring, evaluation and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August ). In the second point, we will appreciate Resolution Projects Nos. 303 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government recognise Russia as a « sponsor of international terrorism », 407 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of an international special court for crimes committed in the Ukraine War, 467 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government support the process of setting up a special criminal court to investigate and judge the war crimes perpetrated by Russia in the invasion of Ukraine, 468 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government condemn Russia's ecocide in Ukraine and support international initiatives to ensure the repair of the environmental destruction caused, and 471 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Supports and welcomes the decision of the President of the Republic of the Great Collar of the Order of Freedom to the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy. At the third point, we will discuss the Drafts of Law No 562 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ( amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ), 563 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the General Scheme for the Protection of Offenders, which transposed Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who denounce violations of Union law, 358 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens and clarifys the impediments and mechanisms for preventing conflicts of interest applicable to holders of political and high public positions by amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 613 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Combats the « rotating doors » between political positions and economic groups by strengthening the regime for preventing the exercise of positions in private undertakings by holders of executive political positions and their sanctioning regime by amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 614 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the penalty framework provided for in Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ( legal regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ) and 625 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of environmental crime complainants by amending Law No 93 / 2021 of 20 December. The fourth point, without time allocated for discussion, contains the following motions for resolutions: No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Establishment of the Operational Unit for Electronic Governance of the United Nations University in Guimarães, signed in Lisbon on 26 July 2021 ; No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam ; No. 7 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between Portugal and Spain on fishing in the international segment of Rio Minho ; No. 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the 2018 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference ; No. 9 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia; No. 10 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the 2014 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference. Finally, there will be a vote on the fifth item. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and until tomorrow at 10 a.m. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 20 minutes.]]
