ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. We can start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] I wish everyone, at the beginning of this new legislative session, the greatest success in your work and I welcome, in particular, the new colleagues, who will accompany us, some again, others returning here to plenary. Mr Rui Rocha, would you like to make an inquiry to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u2	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u3	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak to Mr President about the conduct of the work and I would like to tell him in particular about the case of Lula da Silva. As Mr. President will know, in the last few days, Lula da Silva did... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] ... a set of statements concerning Vladimir Putin's entry into Brazilian territory, stating that there would be no detention of Vladimir Putin. This, Mr President, when it is known that there is an international warrant of the International Criminal Tribunal for the arrest of Vladimir Putin, following investigations into war crimes, crimes against humanity and even genocide.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u5	But what does that have to do with parliamentary work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u6	Now, this Lula da Silva, Mr President, is the same Lula da Silva that Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President of the Republic tried to bring to the Solemn Session on 25 April. [[CH protests.]] And more than that, not only did they try to bring him to the Solemn Session on 25 April, but they also insisted that he come to this House at a special session on the day we commemorate our freedom. [[L. Protests.]] Now, Lula da Silva is known — not now, not by this position, but by the positions taken over time — for being a clear ally of Vladimir Putin. [[Oh, it is!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u7	You guys are getting more and more alike!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u8	And who is allied to Vladimir Putin is an ally of Moscow's torturer, who has in his hands at least 500 000 dead, if we count between the bottoms of the two sides in dispute. So, Mr President, you have had some difficulty choosing your companies. He had the company of José Socrates, over several years,... [[PS and L protests.]] ... and now decided also to bring to a special session of this Assembly of the Republic Mr Lula da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u9	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u10	Moreover, Mr President, it will be recalled that there was an incident in which his words were disclosed by the television channel of the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u11	The more you talk, the more you bury yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u12	... his words, in which he criticized the Liberal Initiative for the position he took regarding the coming of Lula da Silva to this Parliament at that specific date. Well, Mr President, as far as the past is concerned, there is nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u13	A speech to Fidel Castro!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u15	Mr President, at that time he decided to apologize to the Prime Minister and to the President of the Republic. Therefore, it is not worth making excuses; it has not demonstrated the humility needed to apologize to the Portuguese. But there is one fact, which is very important, and which I wanted to bring here: in the future it is necessary to change. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] And if there are, as I suppose there may be, intentions to bring Lula da Silva to the Portuguese Parliament at the commemorations of the 25th of April, it is good to know that this would be a new indignity...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u16	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u17	... and that the Liberal Initiative will, of course, be in the first line of opposition to these intentions. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u18	Is that liberalism? Great news! Great liberalism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u19	Six months late!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u20	Quiet request, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] Mr President, as I have already said, I do not speak publicly about statements that are obtained in the most flagrant violation of people's rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u21	That was not the conclusion!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u22	I am liberal in the political sense of the term, and I therefore follow that criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u23	So this is a discussion between liberals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u24	As for the aspects of his inquiry, which has far to do with the conduct of past works,... [[PS laughter.]] ... I would like to remind the honourable Member: firstly, the agendas — and, therefore, the markings of meetings, be ordinary plenary sessions, be special welcome sessions — are a decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, always preceded by consultation with the Conference of Leaders. In the case of the special welcome session held on 25 April, not to Mr. Lula da Silva, but to the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, Lula da Silva —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u25	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u26	... and this makes all the difference— it was the subject of analysis in the Conference of Leaders and we were able to reach an agreement which mobilised virtually all parliamentary groups, the vast majority of the Members represented in this House of the Republic. And so did the session. The solemn welcome session is held in relation to Heads of State from countries with which Portugal has, historically and at the same time, close relations that justify this absolutely exceptional act, countries in which Portuguese-speaking countries are, of course, but also other allies, old and consistent, from Portugal, such as Spain, France and other countries as such. These welcome sessions are addressed by the Portuguese State—which is represented here by the President of the Republic, who is worthy to participate in and attend this solemn session, and by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, in addition to the Government—and to insert into State-to-State relations, which should not be confused with ideological affinities, political or convergence of positions on all matters. In fact, in this particular session, it is enough to recall my intervention on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic to understand how much it distinguished us from the political positions of the Brazilian Executive and the President of Brazil and how close we are to the political positions of the Brazilian President and the Brazilian Executive and, above all, to the extent that we are close to the diplomatic, cultural and affective point of view of Brazil. It is in this plan that things should be considered. The Portuguese State is a historic, solid State, where sovereignty agencies have immaculate institutional cooperation, and will continue to be. Therefore, with regard to the forthcoming celebrations of 25 April, your party is represented in the organizing committee, which, under my presidency, deals with its preparation and, in time, we will also bring proposals to the Leaders' Conference. With regard to the past, what I would like to remind you, which I am obliged to recall, is this very simple fact: there was a solemn welcome session to the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, agreed in this Parliament, and there will certainly be more welcome sessions to the Heads of State of countries that are close to us. Do you mean that we agree with all the views expressed by these Heads of State? No, they are the King of Spain, the President of France, the President of Brazil, the President of Angola or any other. Does it mean that these political differences prevent us from treating these countries and their heads of State with respect, affection and even, in our case, the love that history and the present justify? No, don't stop it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can then move on to our agenda. I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very good day to all and to all. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law Nos 104 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 14. the Commission, and 105 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Law No. 874 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. a and with the 8. Commissions, 875 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 876 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 877 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 878 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 879 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 880 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 9. the Commission, 881 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 882 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 883/15 / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 884 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 885 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 886 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 887 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 888 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 889 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 890 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), down to 5. the Commission, and 891 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 8. the Commission. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 863 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 864 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 865 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 866 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 867 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 868 / XV / 1. a (PAN), 869 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 870 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 871 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 872 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 873 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), 874 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 875 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 876 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 877 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), which falls to 2. the Commission. The motion of censure to the Government has also entered the Bureau, paragraph 3 / XV / 2. a ( CH). Now, Mr President, let me take note of the opinion coming from 14. the Commission, concerning the replacement of several Members. The first concerns the resignation of Mr Joaquim José Pinto Moreira, PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Porto, being replaced by Rosina Patrícia Ribeiro Pereira, with effect from September 14.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on the opinion on this replacement. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u29	We now vote in favour of the same opinion, with regard to the waiver of the mandate of Mr. Manuel Vicente de Sousa Lima Loff of the PCP, elected by the electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by Manuel Alfredo da Rocha Maia, with effect from 15 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u31	Then, in the same opinion, the resignation of Deputy Catarina Soares Martins, BE, elected by the electoral circle of Porto, being replaced by Isabel Cristina Rua Pires, with effect from September 14.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u32	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u33	Finally, the suspension of the mandate of Mr Luís Filipe Soromenho Gomes, of the PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Faro, being replaced by Dinis Manuel da Palma Faísca, with effect from 15 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u35	That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Let us then begin the agenda with the thematic debate proposed by the Parliamentary Health Commission on the National Health Service ( SNS ). To open the debate by the proposer committee, Mr President of the Health Committee, Mr António Maló de Abreu.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u37	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Minister for Health, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have the honour to address this House on the morning of the celebration of 44. the anniversary of the National Health Service. I would like to express a keen sense of biased discipline that I had done by the party's own and public view of the party that elected this Member. I would recommend that caution be placed in the strict condition of President of the Health Committee of the Republic and proposer of this debate, and that there be antagonistic proposals, as a result of the different judgment which, on the subject, each of the political forces naturally defends and which today will not fail to be heard. I therefore hope that your understanding for those who do not think of reading a pamphlet or a single book, just as it has for themselves that consensus on the essential is healthy, but unanimity is quite often an attack on intelligence. So let me start by recalling the memory of Dr. António Arnaut on this date, because it was by the SNS that he fought from his genesis, throughout his life, and that by him he fought to the last of his days... [[PSD and PS applause.]] ... fulfilling one of the plans of the Constitution of 1976 : the creation of a National Health Service universal, general and free of charge. There are those who can emphasize the greatest ideological, political or even personal disagreements, but I keep it in the consideration of an entire Portuguese and frontal, demanding man from the point of view of honor, dignity and the sense of duty. And I would not do well with my citizen consciousness if I didn't tell you that the National Health Service is, in my heart, the most important social achievements in democratic Portugal. [[PSD, PS and L applause.]] Constitutionally, health was assumed as a fundamental right, inherent to the human condition, and fundamental rights are also social rights, such as the right to protection in health and social security, the right to education and culture and others that, as a whole, give contents to the social state. Freedom is effective only if there is equal access to fundamental rights, because only equality makes sense for freedom. Freedom, equality and solidarity, values that I, if allowed, now yes, as a social democrat of ancient and deep roots, defend with conviction, practical and effort to sow... [[PSD and PS applause.]] ...there may be a definitive separation of water here, but in absolute respect for the ideas of those who diverge from my ideals. The contribution that the National Health Service has offered in recent decades, executed by successive, different and committed protagonists to improving the health conditions of the Portuguese population, evidenced in indicators, such as maternal and child mortality or the average life expectancy. And what about the way and how you supported the recent pandemic, anchored in exceptional people? But the truth, assumed by everyone, is that the National Health Service faces difficulties and its sustainability is seriously concerned, whether by the emergence of new social realities that should not be devalued, such as demographic ageing, the high prevalence of chronic diseases or even the financial pressure itself on the public health system, the latter mainly derived from the costs inherent in technological progress and therapeutic innovation; or by constant policies, the consequences of which cannot be ignored, such as the lack of expenditure on health promotion, chronic management inefficiencies, the lack of public service attractiveness for health professionals and the lack of mistrust between public, private and social sectors. I also want to tell you that health reforms are, above all, an ethical requirement: it is not fair that a single person who is, is desperate, suffers and dies, for lack of assistance. Whenever that happened, it was a terrible and unforgettable drama that hurts our soul and collectively appeals to an urgent cry of action. It is therefore necessary to retrain the SNS to its humanistic matrix, of emotional and effective proximity. And the State must therefore guarantee it also through this House the financial means necessary to fully carry out its irreplaceable mission. Finally, more than identified some of the constraints that affect the SNS, it is important to reflect on the future, to revitalize or reinvent a National Sustainable Health Service, ensuring it as the reliable reference of the Portuguese. They have VV. Ex-word. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u38	We are now opening the debate, and are inscribed to intervene, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President, very good day, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, 44 years have begun the construction of the SNS and could not fail to invoke and also welcome the memory of António Arnaut, the great mentor of this democratic conquest of conferring to the Portuguese the right to public health tends to be free of charge. It is this invocation that I want to do, because now I want to say only three more things. The SNS created 44 years ago is no longer working, the historic reform that is under way is not the solution for it to function and the solution is the proposal of the Universal System of Access to Health (USA-Health), of the Liberal Initiative, and I am going to explain each of the three. The SNS no longer works and I am not here to override the many examples that we have already given of how people are not served by the National Health Service, health professionals are not happy with the National Health Service and taxpayers do not have their money respected by the National Health Service. We've talked about this dozens of times, the arguments are irrefutable. And, therefore, Minister Pizarro here can laugh, but when elderly people die at the door of the emergency, the National Health System is not well. When pregnant women are 200 km away and go through three emergencies before they are cared for, the National Health Service is not well. When patients suffer and wait six, 10 and 14 hours to be treated in an emergency, the SNS is not well. When doctors, nurses, entire teams resign and become demotivated and enter successive strikes, the SNS is not well. So the SNS is no longer working and the government recognises this because it will now make a historic reform — a strange thing, a system that is so well needed by a historical reform! Only that this historic reform is not a solution, as long as those responsible strive to explain that there will be more freedom of choice or that there will be more incentives for the quality of the service provided. Because, in fact, freedom of choice does not increase, it continues to exist only between public entities. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] There are, in fact, no incentives for the quality of care provided, no incentives for preventive medicine, no incentives for innovation in health. And these incentives would only come if, in fact, there was a non-centralised but competitive management of the system. This historic reform will withdraw autonomy from the USF (family health units) of type B—in addition to killing those of type C—which will once again see their limited autonomy, such as the Minister says that he will create more than 200 by the end of the year. I'm going to see! This historic reform will create 31 new local health units (ULS) and, for those who do not know, local health units are public companies. It was only what Portugal needed, plus 31 public companies with their administrations! So historical reform is not the solution. The solution is the Universal System of Access to Health, you can consult it at www.initiativeliberal.pt. It's all there. I don't have time to explain. What I know is that, once again — again — a system that will put people in the centre, which will introduce freedom of choice, which will stimulate competition between providers and, therefore, the quality of prevention and innovation is the solution to the problems we have in the system. And it is not worth taking five years to discuss liberal ideas, as they are doing now with the reduction of taxes. It is not worth taking two years to discuss the privatisation of TAP, when we have put that on the agenda two years ago. It's now! Perhaps—maybe! — it may take one month to put these liberal ideas on the agenda, to discuss the SUS-Health. That is why I come here to warn and appeal, because I am sure that today's SNS, without reform, would not be a SNS of which António Arnaut could be proud. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u40	You now have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Minister arrives at this debate as the face of the failure of the Government's health solution. Yesterday, your Government announced that it will advance unilaterally, and without agreement from professional unions and others, in relation to the reforms it intends to make in the field of health. It is the capitular, the taking of failure and, above all, the assuming of the arrogance of the absolute socialist majority. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u43	Yes, Minister, at the time you are in this Parliament looking at the health disqualification, there are more than 1 5 million Portuguese without a family doctor. At the time you sit in this Parliament and face the parties that ask you for solutions, Portugal is from the countries where the families most pay for the SNS. This system, which has been dreamed of as free and universal, is today the one that sucks the taxes and resources of Portuguese families. What do they pay for? What do they pay so much for? Why do you pay so much taxes? To die at the hospital door, to get no consultations and to see your life postponed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Minister, you are the face of failure, is the face of this government's authoritarianism and is the face of millions'disappointment, with its management in such an important area for Portugal. Let me remind you of some data from your SNS :...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u44	Ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u45	... the debts of the SNS to suppliers in Portugal reached, in July this year, EUR 2223 billion. The same government that tells Portuguese to pay taxes on time, which tells Portuguese to pay to businesses on time, which requires companies that pay taxes and that they do not fail one day, is the biggest driver of health companies in Portugal. The biggest chalet of health companies in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And what we saw is a minister who was smiling around the country, with that air that José Socrates would call "a nice guy", who walks and smiles, and who is telling doctors, nurses, assistants, who have all the conditions in this country that 40 years ago dreamed of a SNS. Minister, the Portuguese who are seeing us today don't eat words, don't go to the doctor of the red nails, nor go to an SNS of the beautiful words of Antonio Arnaut. The Portuguese who are seeing us want a hospital that works close to you; they want a health center that has doors open in their locality; they want a doctor, a nurse who understands them; they don't want their words, neither the red April cartilage, nor the nail cartilage, nor the socialist cartilage... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... they want a hospital, a health center and they want a doctor and a nurse. That's what they want, and that's what we should want. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Minister of Health, Portugal is one of the top 10 countries paying their doctors — 10 worse! — it is one of the worst countries to pay nurses in the European Union ( EU ) and where assistants still earn less than €1000 in hospitals and other health units. That was the face I should bring here today. I should come here and say: "Portuguese, I ask you immensely, I am very sorry to be the worst health manager in recent years. I apologize to you for leading to this disqualification. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, since my time is short and Mr Minister's time is still long, I will not be long enough about the number of hospitals in this country where consultation times exceed the two and three years of waiting, I will not be long enough about the promises of the hospitals of the Six, Sintra, central Alentejo, Algarve or the West, promised and never built. That is what Mr. President and Mr. Members, they are not only promises of these roles, they are the credit note of the frustration of a majority who has destroyed Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u46	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u47	O John, don't step in the front, go in the back! Holiday must have hurt you, come here with the bad habits of the Avante!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Despite all the attack on the SNS, which results from the options of successive governments to reduce their ability to care for the population, but also of the growing and more obvious devouring appetite of private groups to appropriate the SNS, seeking an essential service for their business to the people, despite all this, is remarkable their ability to resist and respond to the population's health problems. In order to have the ability to ensure health care to which users are entitled, the National Health Service must be equipped with the appropriate number of health professionals. It is not by chance that one aspect of the SNS dismantling strategy is the attack on the rights of health workers. Without health workers in the SNS, it cannot ensure the provision of health care to users.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u50	It corresponded to this imperative need that the PCP entered, today, a bill that establishes the exclusive dedication regime in the National Health Service. The implementation of this exclusive dedication scheme is essential to attract health professionals to the SNS and enhances the performance of functions exclusively in the public service. This regime is not intended solely for doctors, it is also extensible for nurses and other health professionals whose need for fixation in the SNS is proven. It is an optional exclusive dedication scheme, with a 50 % increase in remuneration and an increase in the accounting of points for career progression, thus ensuring the possibility of simultaneously performing functions in units of the public, private and social sectors. At the same time, we have also entered a bill where we propose amendments to the Statute of the National Health Service. In fact, the new SNS Statute, in addition to a missed opportunity, did not meet the demands of recovery of the National Health Service, did not end with promiscuity between the public and the private. On the contrary, it has only aggravated the dependence that the public service has on the private sector, which comes to the National Health Service to seek more than 8 billion euros, i.e. — see good, Mrs. Members— around 55% of the State Health Budget. It proves that today, when we should be talking about the opening of more services in the SNS, what is actually being said is about its closure. When people should be reassured with the guarantee of the necessary services at all levels and specialties, strengthening the human and material resources and their response capacity, what is seen is the well-known garrot of the Ministry of Finance, whose certain accounts are the worrying and increasing transfer of public money and valences to the services of the private groups that profit from the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u52	The new SNS Statute, which the government defends with nails and teeth, has proved to be useless. It did not stop the exit of SNS professionals and did not improve the attractiveness of the required professionals, nor did it improve the access of the population to care. He opened the door to the privates, returning the PPPs (public-private partnerships), includes the possibility of granting services to privates, even within hospitals, and maintains the possibility of creating USF model C by granting them to privates, which, in fact, as Mr. Minister of Health admitted, are not only implemented because the government has not yet found privates in them. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] And, as for local health units, announced by the Executive Directorate of the SNS as the great reform of the SNS, in fact, what they demonstrate, by the experience of the overwhelming majority of the eight currently existing, is that the central hospital continues to occupy the primary space, hyperconcentrating services and transferring peripheral hospitals and primary health care to the role of poor relatives in human and financial services and resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u54	That is, the ULS model, which the government now claims to be the great reform of the SNS, but which is in fact a solution with almost 25 years of age, despite an announced autonomy in the management of the SNS, in practice, means loss of autonomy of the subunits that integrate it, as well as of its health centers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u55	The PCP proposes, in contrast to the ULS, local health systems as internal coordination units of the SNS, directed by a board of directors, among hospitals, health centres and continuous care, with effective competences, able to introduce a growing harmonisation and synergy in the articulation of care, without minimizing any of the levels of care. What we need, sirs. Members, it is a statute that opens the door not to private, but to more doctors, nurses and technical and operational assistants, as well as psychologists, pharmacists, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, dentists, nutritionists and so many other professions, to ensure a work that is increasingly multidisciplinary and team. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u56	The Bureau is looking forward to inclusions so that we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u57	Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister speaks!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u58	With all due respect, I will intervene at the end. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u59	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u60	Mr President, Mr Minister of Health, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: Allow me to begin this speech by congratulating Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and Mr President of the Health Committee on the idea and implementation in the Portuguese Parliament of the evocation of 15 September 1979, date of the establishment of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The voracity of day to day prevents us, often, from stopping to think, from stopping to think about the country we went, in the country we are, in the country we want to be. Therefore, the evocation of 44. the anniversary of the SNS, in Portugal, is an opportunity to think about the country and, above all, to think that, for those who have never done anything, all that others have done is little. [[The Minister of Health's laughter.]] In health in Portugal, an image of the New State, reproduced in a documentary by the RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ) about 30. the anniversary of the creation of the SNS, explained that at that time - read 'before the April Revolution' - there was absolutely nothing, nor support for anyone. He explained that the doctors had no pay. He explained that in Bragança there was a hospital very badly mounted, that doctors did not gain anything, except pigs, turkeys, chickens with which the poor who lived in the villages paid for the consultation, that doctors could not charge, because the poor, who needed medical care, had no means to pay. To reach the villages, how many doctors did not walk or ride, because there were no cars, ambulances and firemen, roads of land, day and night, without public light, only to save, but also, often, not to save, children, women, men, elderly, whose average life expectancy was little more than 50 years old? In particular, infectious diseases died, which greatly increased the risk of health professionals themselves. Typhoon, smallpox, tuberculosis, diseases that we are almost unaware of today, but also simplegrips were the main causes of death. Only later—there were no antibiotics—is that penicillin was injected. It was this late country that motivated the idea of a public health service for all. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today there is an exercise that may be useful for this House to do together: on September 15, 2023, in Lisbon, here in the Palace of Saint Benedict, we will close our eyes and look at the Country. We will close our eyes and imagine Portugal, our lands, our people, without hospitals, without health centers, no pharmacies, no firefighters, no ambulances, no doctors and other professionals—and, when they existed, so few were paid by the State wage—a country in which the care provided to the generality of the Portuguese, but especially the poorest, were essentially based on humanism, clearly insufficient, by doctors, pharmacists and nurses. Perhaps it would be useful to remind the most forgotten of this House, those who have never done anything, who together in this 44. the anniversary, we must recognize how we advanced, thank for this achievement, for this idea of public service for all, and recognize that the description of a late Portugal also in health makes even more valuable the idea of those who believed in a country that, having nothing, dreamed and managed to have what it has today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] « It is not a utopia. Because the dream is done by work, perseverance and the human warmth of acts. We will do what we can and will try to model the impossible so that the future will make it viable. » Yes, it is good to quote António Arnaut, it is good to quote the one who had the valuable idea of building the National Health Service. Let's keep going, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Now open your eyes. Open them and let us see what we were able to build together. How it was given to the dream, building a network of health centers and extension of health. How we built hospitals that didn't exist. As we put on equipment, we served them with arms that qualified to provide care, to give love, which ensured health, protection and well-being to those who needed it most. How we brought health to the whole country and to many villages that, until then, were beyond, villages that were beyond the paths that broke out, the paths that lit up in the evenings, the roads that went through cars, but also firemen, hospital emergency technicians and relief ambulances. Open our eyes and see how we were collectively able, as a state, to build a network that provides continuous care in the disease, palliative care at the end of the day, which goes to the home of those who need it most. As we were able to evolve in the organization of health centers, programming consultations, building preventive programs and trackings that saved thousands of women and thousands of men. As we were able to build together the most advanced vaccination plan, eradicating diseases, or even implementing a policy of family planning and maternal-child health. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if, on the one hand, it is true that the idea of a public service is of Arnaut, that the generalization of health centres, first, the great reform of primary care, then the creation of continuing care networks, the construction and extension of the country's hospital network are brands of men and women of PS governments, it is also fair to remember that the great achievements of the National Health Service, the great advances, would not have been possible without the health professionals, which we mention this day, as an expression of our recognition and our gratitude. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That said, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself: is everything done? Of course not. Is there a problem? There will always be problems. However, I believe that, on this particular day, we must highlight not the « inconsistencies», but all the thousands of acts that thousands of health professionals assure, every day, thousands of Portuguese people, and above all, record the advances of 44 years in the increase of average life expectancy, in the significant reduction of the mortality rate, especially of children. We have developed a response for all citizens, regardless of the financial condition of each individual, to the idea that, when the disease is severe or the state of health is complicated, it is, in the public sector, that the solutions to the problems of the Portuguese are found. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, standing in our chair, let us think: will not be this success of a service for all, free of charge, with its results—from then on, the increase of the average life expectancy, the ageing of the population, the emergence of new chronic diseases associated with aging—the factor that currently weighs more and causes pressure and difficulties to SNS? It seems to us that way. But it is precisely because of the importance of these founding principles, of freeness and universality, and above all because of the clear consensus in Portuguese society on this, that it is necessary to continue to take steps to ensure that this idea of Community society, organised, is effective in the provision of health care. Standing and thinking about the country we want to be, there are, therefore, three virtuous pillars to respond to the challenges of the SNS. First, a policy of commitment in human resources, which are examples of what we have already done for the enhancement of nursing career, which we have proposed today, after a broad dialogue with the unions and their approval in the Council of Ministers, for the valorization of doctors... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u61	That's why there are strikes marked everywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u62	... or what we are committed to by the end of the year, to the creation of the career of health assistant technician and the continuous appreciation of other professionals. A second pillar is the strengthening of investment policy — which is on the streets, in the cities, in the villages of our country — of the requalification of health centres, of the construction of new family health units, of the construction of new hospitals, such as the central hospital of Alentejo. But also, in the way we organize ourselves, the generalization of model B units, which allows us to attract and fix new professionals, or the new local health units, yes, are the great reform that the country needs, that health needs, to continue to do what we have done in the last 44 years. We know the dangers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know the legitimate aspirations of the professionals, the difficulty in regulating, in the health sector, the coexistence of the private sector and the public sector, but we refuse to give up because nothing, "nothing can be done against the will of the people, and the people will not lose this conquest", as Arnaut wrote, assured that it would be in the first rows if it was necessary to make a popular uprising. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, No 44. the anniversary of the National Health Service, the Parliamentary Group of the PS reaffirms here its commitment. And if it is necessary to make this popular uprising, here are 120 more Members, alongside the Portuguese people, to defend the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u63	Popular uprising? Harmful hate speech?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u64	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Guilherme Almeida, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Luís Soares, this week, the country was informed that more than a year later, negotiations between the medical unions and the Ministry of Health for the definition of new wage grids and the full dedication regime ended without agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u67	This lack of agreement will have negative effects on the change of SNS and people's health, warns Pedro Pita Barros. The government initiates an important reform of backs aimed at the doctors of the National Health Service, those who, when it did, were called heroes, but who are tired, demotivated and even frustrated because they could not see their recognized effort, because they could not respond to the patients and because they did not see the signs of real improvement of working conditions and personal fulfillment. Even the increases promised to doctors who adhere to the full dedication regime, after paying their taxes, are far below the notice, as well as implementing a significant loss of rights and quality of life. There is an increasing demand for hours and days of work for doctors, who are already exhausted and who believe in those who, at the end of eight years, give them a hand and then take them both.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u69	What I want to ask you is, therefore, whether the Socialist Party agrees that doctors, in order to have an increase in that name, have to start doing 250 additional hours of work per year, more than currently, or working on Saturdays. I also ask you a second question, which is, at the same time, a challenge, in order to know whether the Socialist Party will finally fall into itself and listen to the warned words of its President, Carlos César, who has still remembered that the PS is not the owner of the country, nor the only one to have the best ideas or always have the good ideas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u70	And what are yours?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u71	... recommending more openness to the proposals of the other parties, a particularly timely advice on the eve of the budgetary debate, with so many valid proposals submitted by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u72	To reply, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u73	Mr President, Mr Guilherme Almeida, I thank the question. Well, I confess that if there is a matter on which the PSD could not come to the debate asking questions, it is the question of workers' rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u74	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u75	... and in the area of health in particular. Just remember, and the doctors do not forget, that in the period 2011 to 2015 you cut in wages, cut in extraordinary hours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u77	...cut in quality hours. They've cut everything, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u78	Because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u79	The memory of doctors and health professionals is the memory of cuts. But, given that this contribution is there, I would like to reply to your challenge, because, in fact, what we bring as an image of our governance is precisely the opposite: it is the recovery of what you have cut and even broadened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u80	It's closing your eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u81	The process that you have spoken about here, of dialogue with the unions, is a process that culminates with proposals that are good for doctors, of professional valorization. [[Protests from PSD and BE Member Isabel Pires.]] This is what we have done with regard to nurses, and we will continue to do with regard to other health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u83	Keep your eyes shut!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u84	That is why, Mr President, I confess that I am strange, but, if it is an act of contribution, it is welcome to the debate in the defence of workers' rights in the field of health, too. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u85	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u86	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear fellow citizens in the galleries, I wish everyone a good return to parliamentary work. It is said that one day a student asked the great anthropologist Margaret Mead what was the first sign of civilization, and expected the answer to be the invention of writing or the construction of some great infrastructure, pyramids, art, or any other answer. And the answer, it is said, that it was later recorded in the memories of this student, was that the first sign of civilization was the broken femur, and then healed, of a human, found in an archaeological excavation. This means that someone there took out of his time, got out of his work, to heal someone who was from his species, someone who was from his family, another human. It means that from there, not letting anyone stay behind, not letting anyone lose himself because of a broken femur, which was usually what happened, is a sign of civilization. Therefore, the National Health Service is one of the greatest signs of civilization that this country has ever built, and our choice in relation to it is very simple: do we want to keep the country according to this sign of civilization that guides us or should we let it lose? [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] Well, it costs money. I mean, unlike what Mr Ventura said there, it's free, but it costs tax money... Of course it's free and it costs tax money!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u87	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u88	It is through tax money that he is free of charge, and that's how it should be, because we want our country to be civilized, as since antiquity, who healed that broken femur was. Now, for that, we have to go get the tax money where we are losing it and we have to increase the tax money that goes to the National Health Service, ending with its subordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u89	Double the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u90	One of the oldest liberal parties in Europe, the British liberal party... [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u91	Sir, you just doubled your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u92	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u93	It is exactly with you, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u94	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u95	...and so I'm done...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u96	Mr President, you have to do your best to finish, because you have already exceeded 100 % of your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u97	It's true, and I'll finish. This British Liberal Party proposes a 10 % increase in the British national health service. The Liberal Initiative proposes that we lie outside the one we already have in the name of the unknown. It's gonna work, it's another faeces! [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u98	Go read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u99	Mr Minister, I ask you a question to finish. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u100	It's going to start at 2. The Legislative Session like this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u101	He told me that he would reflect on the proposal for the Free to give the same type of report and information that the public gives on the market. I ask you if you have already reflected and what is the answer you have to give. The SNS cannot continue to fight with blindfolded eyes and hands tied. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u102	This is abuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u103	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cristina now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health and other members of the Government: Today's debate on the creation of the National Health Service is marked by further failure. Contrary to their optimistic statements, negotiations between the government and the trade unions on the medical work regime have failed sharply. [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] The truth is that this lack of agreement will have negative effects on changes in the SNS and people's health, even today the prestigious economist Pedro Pita Barros warned. For a real change we can no longer accept a government that is always a step behind the ideas of the PSD. There's a need for leadership! This debate is therefore another good occasion for Parliament to evaluate the social policy of the Socialist Party: misleading policy, promises not fulfilled, marked by propaganda, evil and even by lies, beyond the constant opportunistic zigzags. [[PSD applause.]] Unfulfilled promise was to ensure that in 2017 all SNS users would have a family doctor. Minister, propaganda is called « Nascer en Seguridad operation » the closure of SNS birth and maternity blocks. [[PSD applause.]] It is bad faith to deceive the people, making them believe that all SNS doctors would receive wage increases, when the appreciation will only be for those who accept the increase in the workload and the reduction of their rights. The doctors have already answered you, Minister: your proposals are unacceptable and they further demotivate these health professionals, who, they are, yes, who defend and maintain our SNS. It is a lie that the PSD was against the creation of the SNS, in 1979, for having voted against the statistic law that the PS then proposed, when we presented the Bill No. 261 / I/ 3. a, diploma that also established the SNS, as the Socialist Party knows well. Opportunistic Ziguezagues are the contradictory approaches of the last three Health Ministers on public-private partnerships in health, although they are so appreciated by patients and proficient for their own public history. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that socialist governance in the field of health has been negative we all know, but it is good to stir up memory to those who like to hide reality. The reality is that in August 2023, there were 1, 6 million SNS users without a family doctor, more than 550 000 in 2015. The reality is that in 2022, there were fewer than 4 million presence medical consultations than in 2015, less than 18 %. In 2022 there were 235 000 patients on the waiting list for surgery, more than 38 000 patients in 2015. And finally until July 2023, the investment in the SNS was EUR 137 million, only 16 % of the EUR 753 million budgeted for the whole year. In the face of the obvious failed experience of almost eight years of socialist governance in health, we, the Social Democratic Party, do not resign. Last June, we put forward proposals for better access to family doctors and reduced waiting times for patients for consultations, surgery and examinations. We proposed strengthening continuous and palliative care, improving access to medicine and valuing health professionals, a condition that is essential for the survival of the National Health Service. The Socialist Party has led all our proposals, from the first to the last — and they were more than 50 proposals — with sectarianism and total no compromise. That is how the Socialist Party led to the PSD proposals. We are tired of seeing the socialist government always one step behind reality. It is true that the Minister of Health promises that now it will be, that this time it is, and that the transformation of the SNS into a gigantic blanket of local health units is that it will solve all our problems of access.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u105	Are they against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u106	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u107	We only want to create it in a more phased way, in dialogue with the populations and with the autarchs, and, above all, starting in regions where conditions have already been demonstrated for the immediate integration of primary health care with hospital care. We do not give up, therefore, our duty to monitor the government and to improve its proposals as far as possible, so I announce from now on that the PSD will require the parliamentary review of the legislative decree approving the restructuring of the SNS and the generalization of local health units. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is increasingly urgent for Portugal to have a PSD government leading and thinking about people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u108	It's not against, but stop the reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u109	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Joana Lima, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u110	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Cristina, you don't believe in what I said up there from the rostrum. You know that the PSD has been a brake on the reform of the National Health Service. You know the cuts the PSD made during the years you served the Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] But now, sir, it's time to look forward. It's time to say what we're doing. It's time to say what PS is capable of doing and that you're not able to do. The day we meet celebrating and honoring 44. the anniversary of the National Health Service and António Arnaut, would like to leave here what the SNS guarantees, every day, throughout the country: 137 625 consultations in health centres; 73 360 nursing consultations; 50 914 consultations in hospitals;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u111	Doesn't it work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u112	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u113	This is the SNS we have, this is the SNS that we will continue to strengthen and this is the SNS that the country needs, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u114	What are the sources of this data?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u115	Mr Barros spoke at the Pita Barros and referred to the interview he gave today, so I will read you an excerpt from this interview. The Minister has said everywhere he goes that negotiations with doctors will always be made until he can no longer. But there is a limit, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u116	Mr. Minister has said a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u117	Pita Barros says:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u118	Pita Barros, your friend?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u119	... "The idea of giving a possible budget strike today to create permanent public expenditure for the whole future is equivalent to being writing a letter asking for the return of the troika in two or three years, when the budget strike disappears and the increase in public expenditure becomes a problem. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, honourable Member, the Government of the Socialist Party is taking the step it can take. He doesn't take a step bigger than his leg, because he knows that this is permanent expenditure and that he can only go where he can go.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u120	It's on the brink of the abyss and it's going to take a step forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u121	That's what we have. What about you, Mr. Deputies? Do you subscribe to these words from Pita Barros or do you want to take a step longer than your leg, then call the troika? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u122	To reply, Mr. Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u125	It is your government that has allowed the National Health Service to be completely degraded in the last eight years. [[PSD applause.]] Even on August 12, an ex-Minister of the Socialist Party, Adalberto Campos Fernandes, said that today we have a SNS in much greater suffering than we had many years ago. The truth is that we have a National Health Service where: 1, 6 million users do not have a family doctor; patients wait and despair for more than two years for consultations and surgeries; the number of face-to-face consultations in primary care in 2022 continues to be lower than in 2015, Mrs. Deputies ; and the 115 000 surgeries to be done in 2020 are far from being compensated. This is the real portrait of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u126	You have the numbers here, just look at them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u127	What it costs me the most is to have listened to Mr. Health Coordinator of the Socialist Party, Luís Soares,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u128	Mr. Luís Soares!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u129	...say we have to close our eyes and dream. In the Social Democratic Party, we don't close our eyes and we don't dream. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u130	They buried their heads in the sand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u131	We think, organize, plan and show that we have a true alternative route for the SNS. [[PSD applause.]] We presented these proposals in the last legislative debate in July, and you vetoed, plummeted, all of the more than 50 proposals we had for the SNS. What we want is a better SNS for all Portuguese, where people have to be at the heart of decisions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u132	Now you have the floor Mr. Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by welcoming this initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, naturally doing so in the role of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, but also Mr Maló de Abreu, President of the Parliamentary Health Commission. It is a very important initiative for Parliament to hold its plenary session on 15 September to mark the creation and development of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me, Mr Maló de Abreu, to make my own words of praise to the unique figure of this Portuguese, that unpopular citizen who was Dr. António Arnaut, and to the extraordinary impulse he gave to the creation and development of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u134	A socialist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u135	And, yes, at the same time, recognize that the progress of the National Health Service is the work of many — even many! — that they were part of the Social Democratic Party, that the honourable Member integrates, and that at that time the founder voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u136	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u137	It's a historical fact! But they had occasion...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u138	It's always the same story!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u139	Mr. Deputies, I am trying to praise you. Let me finish! Open... [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] But after that they had the opportunity to make a great contribution through various members of the government to improve the health of Portuguese. Let me mention, in this regard, the great figure of a ruler who had a decisive role in the consolidation of gains in maternal and child health, a ruler of a PSD government, the illustrious Portuguese physician Albino Aroso, to whom women, children and Portuguese owe so much, a great figure of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] I have a lot of difficulty to understand why so many people are so keen to miss the results and activity of the SNS. It is not concerned to recognize the limitations of the SNS, which exist. It is not at stake to ascertain every case where things are going less well, because every time in a health system things are going less well, this has consequences that are very serious from the point of view of life or the quality of life of the people in question. But how can one relax, how can one decrease, a service that every day performs, in primary health care, 137,625 medical consultations, 73,360 nursing consultations, 50,914 hospital consultations, 3023 surgeries, 17,075 emergency services?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u140	Ah, they sent the leaves to each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u141	Hey! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u142	This parliamentary debate started more, less, less, an hour ago. During this time, more than 711 Portuguese hospitals, which are being treated and treated with affection, competence and dedication, have entered the emergency service of the SNS hospitals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u143	Out those who didn't come in and stay at the door for lack of breaks!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u144	Every day, 3841 INEM media activations are carried out. In every minute that the gentlemen. Members speak, INEM activates at least three emergency facilities at the service of Portuguese. It's this dimension we're talking about! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u145	And it works!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u146	On each day, more than 24,890 visits are held on the SNS Line 24. And, yes, there are 177 births in public hospitals every day, 7 in an hour, ensuring that Portugal has one of the lowest infant mortality rates in the world and that it remains a good country to be born. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u147	And yet everything goes to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u148	Does that mean it's all settled? Not at all. Therefore, since 2016, the Government has continuously and persistently invested in the qualification of the National Health Service. Since 2016, we have a 56 % budget increase in the SNS, compensating largely for the budgeting and cut-off by the PSD/CDS government. We have more than 30 000 professionals in the National Health Service. Today we are nearly 150 000 professionals in the SNS — over 50 000 nurses, nearly 32 000 doctors, over 10 000 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, over 25 000 operational assistants — a multitude of people who give their best of their lives with great dedication to defend and promote the health of Portuguese people, and whose work I want to thank and exalt on behalf of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fact is that, after this effort, an effort to increase funding and an effort to expand human resources, we now have more activity in the SNS — but there are also more needs, it is true — with our ability to increase the number of consultations, the number of surgeries. The surgeries increased by 2022, 8 % compared to 2019, and in the first half of this year more than 10 % compared to the first half of 2022. But the truth is that demand has also increased. The demand increased because there is, as has already been said, ageing of the population, which generates more needs, because there is more response capacity of the SNS, because we remove barriers when we end up with moderate rates at almost all levels of service, and this makes people more accessible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u149	But it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u150	We need to qualify our model of organization, and it was because we were concerned about this qualification of the model of organization that we took this initiative to generalize local health units throughout the country as a model of organization of services, at the service of people. The idea is, in a virtuous way, to articulate primary health care, which will continue to be the essential pillar of the SNS, with hospital services, in order to facilitate the circulation of users, whether they are sick or not, in the health system and to make the resources that we have to facilitate access and optimize the results. This is also why we are implementing organizational model services already tested and which are a case of success. That is why we will generalize to all primary health care the possibility of creating family health units with the remuneration associated with performance, something that clearly increases people's access, qualifies care and increases the satisfaction of teams — multi-professional teams, with general and family medical doctors, with nurses and with technical assistants, clinical secretaries, who self-organize themselves to care for a particular population. What we are going to do in this area is something that will be decisive in extending Portuguese access and in enabling the number of Portuguese people who do not yet have access to a family health team to be progressively reduced. This is also what we are going to do in hospitals, because what we want to import for hospitals is also this model of organization of multi-professional teams, generalizing the Integrated Responsibility Centres (ICRs), which already work in some surgical specialties, in some hospitals, with great success and which we want to extend to other areas of medical intervention and, from now on — because they are central aspects of the functioning of hospitals — to the teams dedicated to urgency, to the internal medicine teams and to an area that is urgently needed to boost mental health. This is what we will do, with determination and in constant dialogue with professionals, which are the essential tool for a more qualified SNS and with the best access we want to promote. I do not cease to miss the reformist impulse that some Members of the benches located on the right here seem to want to bring us. It is that, let's see: who has really introduced innovation in the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u151	O PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u152	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u153	Who created the first family health units?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u154	Executive direction!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u155	A PS government, by then Minister Correia de Campos. Who created the continuous care network? A PS government by the hand of the Minister Correia de Campos. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] Who guaranteed that the SNS would respond to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy (IVG), ending with the scourge of clandestine abortion and with this public health problem? [[PSD, CH, IL and BE protests.]] A PS government by the hand of Minister Ana Jorge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that it is not the parliamentary pleasure that the government is asking questions to the Members,... [[CH and IL protests.]] ... but I do not resist asking, especially the Members of the Social Democratic Party, whether they can give me an example of a hospital in a public-private partnership whose competition or contract has been signed by a government other than the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u156	How proud you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u157	Give your first example of Martha Fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u158	We will continue to work with determination,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... to promote a public, general, universal, free, son of this liberating revolution of 25 April and the red nails that mark Portuguese democracy,... [[CH protests.]] ... son of the energy of so many and that continues to be so significant for so many. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u159	Marta didn't do anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u160	Give the example of Martha Fearful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u161	Mr. Minister has eight requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u162	Mr President, I will respond to all requests for clarification together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u163	To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor on behalf of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u164	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the members of the Government here present. I also greet the Health Commission for marking this date of the establishment of the National Health Service. Mr Minister, given my short minute, there are two questions that I cannot but ask you. He's been talking about the doctor's vacancies a little while ago. However, we must not forget that, by the end of the year, 400 doctors are going to reform. He talked about placements. We know he recruited 300 newly licensed doctors. For example, in the district of Leiria, in summer, 25 doctors went out and only entered 10. The absence of enough entries will cause 2, 3 million Portuguese to remain without a family doctor. But yesterday we heard him say that the reform package would give a family doctor 250 000 Portuguese. Now, given that there are another 2, 3 million Portuguese who will be without a family doctor right now, the Minister of Health has raised their hands. Mr. Minister raised his hands, but this is actually to cry out to heaven. So we'd like to know what you're going to do for families that don't have a family doctor. In conclusion, because my time is over — and with the good tolerance of Mr President — I would like to remind you that today we are celebrating the centenary of the birth of Natalia Correia, a defender of the decriminalization of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in Portugal. in this context, I cannot fail to question the report of the ERS ( Regulatory Health Entity ), which says that 69 % of public hospitals in Portugal do not ensure IVG.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u165	Shame! Don't hide what's going on in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u166	Following this data, the Minister introduced the idea of placing the competence of voluntary termination consultations in the family health units.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u167	A scandal what's going on with IVG!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u168	This measure has many gray areas to clarify and I would like you to be able to clarify precisely your idea of passing this possibility to the family health units, so that this right, which has cost women in Portugal so much, will not fail to be enshrined.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u169	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u170	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, in fact, 44 years of SNS is an important date to mark. In fact, the SNS represented one of the most important achievements of our democracy and has lasted so long because it has always been supported by the population, because people know that without the SNS, most of the time they would not have the right to access health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u172	The problem is that SNS has enemies. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] And in recent decades, much of these enemies have been in the governments that have been managing the National Health Service, governments that have therefore been creating conditions for privatization, that have degraded certain services and have brought us to the point where we are now. Speaking in degradation of services, Minister, this leads us to the undisturbed situation of the motherhood of the Hospital de Santa Maria. I wanted to return to July 20, 2023, to the debate of the State of the Nation. At the time, I myself asked you what was going on with that service in this hospital, warning that there is a possible destruction of the obstetric and maternity service here and that within a short time there could begin to be more terminations of contracts on the part of health professionals. And I asked the Minister whether he was going to resign the President of the Management Board or whether he would keep it, at the risk of seeing what we are now seeing happen. His answer was paradigmatic, and I quote: "I have all confidence in the way dedicated to public service as she is directing one of the country's largest hospitals. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] Mr Minister, what we see right now is a mismanagement of the public service of our country's largest public maternity! at this time, the Hospital de Santa Maria and the services of obstetrics and maternity are the perfect example of the examples of governments who want to damage certain services of the SNS. At the beginning of this week, there was a termination of the contract of six more obstetricians. And we're talking about professionals who are the most needed in the National Health Service. We know that others can follow. More and more women are being sent to the private, when the SNS had the best valences in this area until recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u173	It's evil! It's evil, really!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u174	Clinical security is at issue at the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier, and it is not the Block de Left that says so, Minister, he is the director of this hospital's obstetrics. This is Mr. Minister's responsibility. The Left Block has warned, several months ago, of the consequences — some of them may be irreversible — of this option of the Government and the Socialist Party: leaving professionals, inability to provide obstetric services, the destruction of an exemplary health service. And all of this is happening not only with the conviction of the government but above all with the will of the Government of the Socialist Party. I therefore ask you why it is that you continue to insist on applying measures similar to those which the right would like to be applying at the moment. [[IL protests.]] And when are you going to start acting in defense of the public service, which, now I said, in your intervention, do you want to defend?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u175	They're pathetic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u176	I would also like to speak to you, Minister, on the question of the reorganization of the National Health Service, the so-called local health units. What we believe about this solution is that we are faced with a management game, actually, because it is concentrating more resources and it is a solution that, in fact, does not always work on the sites where it is implemented. I would like the Minister to see with me what is happening in ULS that has been implemented for several years. Let's go to Bragança, for example. It's been a ULS for 12 years. Is the problem of the lack of family doctors resolved? Don't! Has the difficulty in accessing exams improved? Don't! The lack of professionals, in general, in that region, is even close to being solved? Don't! And those who speak in Bragança, Mr. Minister, speak in Guarda, in Castelo Branco or in Alentejo. Portalegre has a ULS created in 2007 ; the overwhelming majority of doctors are busy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u177	You've never been to Portalegre!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u178	Mr. Minister, on the Alentejo Coast, there is no lack of family doctors and is not the radiology service granted to private people? It's also a ULS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u179	You didn't go to Alentejo, how do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u180	Therefore, we are not the only ones giving warnings about the ULS; in recent weeks, several health professionals have been alerting these risks and, in fact, what has happened is that, as in all negotiations, the Ministry, or rather, the Minister says he is negotiating a lot, until the last one, but then decides everything without the agreement of absolutely no one. So the question I want to ask you is whether, in fact, you are considering modifying this decision in some way, considering the history and experience that the ULS have had in our country — not solving the problems — and you are finally going to do what is necessary: public investment in the SNS that is not going right to the private purse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u181	To make a request for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the SNS is 44 years ago, but in fact, the moment is not a party. And it's not party because it's more than obvious that the SNS is not being able to respond to all people's needs. It does not respond to those who do not have a family doctor, does not respond to those who are waiting for consultation or surgery, does not respond to the needs of pregnant women, nor at the time of delivery, and now, nor in the ultrasounds, and does it not respond to health professionals. All of this has been worsening in recent years, as a result of the Socialist Party's governance, sometimes by conviction, but others because it was necessary to please the PCP and the Left Block. So, three parties that say they defend the SNS, then think first about ideology and just follow people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u184	But, Mr Minister, when you hear your speeches, it seems that we are talking about different SNS. It is because Mr Minister laughs, for Mr Minister, everything is always right, he always says that the SNS is doing more; that there is now predictability; consider the contracts for the hiring of family doctors a success, when 60 % of the vacancies are to be filled;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u185	When we're not ambitious, it's like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u186	... says that there is dialogue with health professionals, but then the full dedication is approved without the agreement of the unions;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u187	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u188	... and also does not see any problem in hiring Cuban doctors, even though all the facts demonstrate that this constitutes and that it is a situation of human trafficking on the part of the Cuban state.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u189	They have nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u190	But in the middle of this, there is a positive point here, because now, despite everything being okay, this great reform of the SNS to 2024 is announced, which will be the creation of 31 local health units. We have time to discuss this later, but I can't help but ask you how it will ensure that it is now, that it is now that this model of local health units will start to work. It has already been mentioned here that the first local health unit was established in 1999. It's been 24 years. After that, there were seven others, and all the experience shows that the results are not good. of the eight that are in operation, two work more or less, all others have results that are not good. So, Minister, why is it now that it's going to be different? We need to be assured how this model of organization will bring more health professionals to the SNS — because, in fact, this is what we are talking about — how, with this model, people will have more family doctors; how, with this model, a pregnant woman can move on to plan her pregnancy from the beginning to the end, know where she is going to do her ultrasounds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u192	If he does! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u193	... to know where your child is going to be born; how is it that, with this model, people have more access to health and more access to more health providers. Regarding freedom of choice—because we have heard the executive direction talk about freedom of choice—how is it that, in this model, people actually have freedom of choice? [[L. Protests.]] The government is speaking of freedom of choice, and it is good, but they have not, in fact, grasped the idea of the Liberal Initiative as to freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is the person can choose where and by whom he wants to be treated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u195	And that doesn't mean choosing within the SNS, because that's what the person already does. So, after all, what's going to change? What's going to change? Oh, my God! If there is more freedom of choice, if the executive direction and the government present this as more freedom of choice, then how does this freedom of choice appear? Mr Minister, this model of the ULS does not respond to any of this. So you don't realize exactly what's going to change. In our opinion, what is going to happen? A great reform is announced to save time, because it will be a year, two will pass and the Minister will say: « Calm down, because we are still starting. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u196	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u197	So we're here delaying a problem and making time. So, in conclusion, what I ask you, Minister, is the following: if, in fact, this model is so good — and I ask you all these assurances that this is now going to work and how it will work — if it makes sense to organize almost the whole country in ULS, then why has the government, because the Socialist Party, taken 24 years to make this decision? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u198	Oh! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u199	Don't despair!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u200	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u201	Mr President, Minister, I had another kind of question to ask you, but I cannot help but refer to your speech just a few minutes ago in this plenary for two reasons: the first is because the Minister said: "Why does the right spend so much time to sit down and attack the SNS? », and I wanted to give you something new. The right does not spend time stalling or attacking the SNS ; the right spends time stalling and attacking those who, incompetently, manage the SNS. It's completely different than attacking the SNS. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But then we must also do this to the Socialist Party and to the Minister : it is that whenever there is a debate about the economy, about health or about education, the channel history recovers the soul in this Parliament. [[CH's laughs.]] We heard Mr. Luís Soares say that 50 years ago in Bragança it was so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u202	It is memory, gratitude and recognition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u203	Mr President, your father and mine and all those who are here could say that 100 years ago in Bragança, it was even worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u204	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u205	You don't know the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u206	And I'm going to give you something new: when Afonso Costa made the first speech in this House, as a Member, I don't know if you know when it was,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u207	Learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u208	...in 1900, here, in this House, health was even worse, Mr. Deputies. I have another novelty to give you: when the Marquis de Pombal was Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u209	He wasn't Prime Minister! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u210	I'm telling you, this was the worst thing there was! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] And I have another novelty: when Luís de Camões wrote The Lusíadas, by the « seas never sailed», health did not exist in Portugal, Mr Deputies, do you see? When we're always going back, we're just taking on one thing, which is your incompetence in 40 or 50 years, they haven't been able to give real health to the Portuguese. That's the only thing! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, leave us behind the history classes, the Marquis de Pombal and other times and assume your responsibility in democracy. And your responsibility is this: in Spain, a doctor wins three times as much as in Portugal. And Spain, when did you have your change to democracy? They're freaking out, it was after the Portuguese regime. That is to assume responsibility, to assume your structural incompetence in health matters. That's it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And then, Mr Minister, I must also tell you this: Mr Minister, once again, already embezzled by this contagion of the channel of history, was referring to ministers who had a very important role. Such a minister, such a minister, such a good minister, and I noticed in two things: he did not refer to Minister Marta Feared with any extraordinary facts, which is already a note. I, if I were Mrs Minister, would make a request for clarification, but the Minister will understand. [[CH's laughs.]] I also noticed that, in all the names of ministers you mentioned, it was consistent in one thing: you did not identify your own name. And so we have come to the conclusion that, in fact, since he is a Minister of Government, he has nothing to present to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And that is a good conclusion to retire. [[PS protests.]] But at least Mr Minister is not like the PSD, which says that it is necessary to change government, but does not favour the motion of censure which we are going to discuss in Parliament next Tuesday. At least Mr. Minister assumes himself: "I did nothing as a minister, the PS government did nothing as a government, but we are much better than when Dr. Marcelo Caetano was the President of the Council and sat here in this Parliament. Do not keep on seeking. ” No, Mr Minister, I have already told you today, and I think it is true that whoever is seeing us at home does not want to know the history of the socialist governments, nor the history of the SNS, nor of the Marquis de Pombal, nor of any of the socialist ministers. Whether the Eastern Lisbon hospital is done, whether the Sixal hospital is done, whether the Sintra hospital is done, whether the Central Alentejo hospital is done, whether the West hospital is done, whether the new Algarve hospital is done. Do you know what this has in common? It is that they are all promises of that party that is sitting there and that are not completed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is what is here and this is the truth, Minister. So I wanted to ask you the following: when will these hospitals be completed? Mr. Luís Soares, take all these hospitals and take them there to those who like history to explain where these hospitals are. They're not! Meanwhile, they're still dying at the hospitals. Mr. Minister was up to talk about INEM in this house. The INEM! The INEM, to which no hours should have been paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u212	INEM, which has ambulances stopped due to lack of maintenance and payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u213	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u214	INEM, which so many Portuguese know and know what is going on, because they have suffered in the skin what it is to lose loved ones due to lack of early care. Mr Minister, a bit of shame in talking about certain health matters would not hurt him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u216	I would like the PS, for once, to come to this House not with propaganda or historical memory, but with responses to the Portuguese. I asked you a few very simple questions, about when is that what was promised by the PS will effectively be completed. When will you really be able to apply the average time that VV. Did they set out to have a consultation? Mr. Minister, at Braga Hospital, for facial surgery, it takes two and a half years. Minister, for facial surgery, two and a half years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u217	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u218	I could read you... look, I'll finish, don't worry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u219	Sir, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u220	I know, Mr. President, I'm gonna finish. You know what I wanted? I'd like to be distributed by all of you. Socialist Members wait for surgery in Portuguese hospitals. Believe me, this isn't written with Luís de Camões or Fernando Pessoa ink, it's with the blood, the blood of the Portuguese you're playing! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u221	Mr Luís Soares would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u222	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u223	Please. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u224	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u225	It is not about honor, because it does not attack anyone, but we just want to note the following, Mr President: in parliamentary language we can admit everything, but we do not confuse something, which is memory with ignorance. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u226	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u227	When we, here, came to make the memory, we made the memory... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u228	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u229	...of the heritage we bring and of which we pride ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u230	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u231	We regret that Mr André Ventura does not know the history of our country,... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u232	Mr. Luís Soares...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u233	... that you do not know Vinhais, do not know Bragança and do not recognize, above all, the path we have made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u234	Mr President, the requests to the Bureau are addressed to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u235	Do you understand? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u236	What was the interrogation?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u237	They still have so much time, spend the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u238	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u239	Mr President, Minister, the CFP brought to this debate serious concerns and came seriously concerned. I was more concerned when I heard Mr. Minister there, that pulpit, that reminded me of the musicians of the Titanic. With all this sinking, it's like nothing's going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u240	You guys are sinking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u241	The truth is that the National Health Service faces great difficulties, but you are a great speaker, at a time when in the government there are some who say they are makers. For you are a destroyer, and I say one more thing to you: I do not believe in the conversation of incompetence. It is not incompetence that is concerned, because if it were incompetence they were not always wrong on the same side. [[Laughter from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] They always cheat on the private side!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u242	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u243	To defend the SNS, I do not see it with serious measures, with measures that combat this degradation of the National Health Service. We begin with health professionals and operational assistants: for when is the career of health assistant, a career that dignifiedly values their wages? We have health assistants, currently operational assistants, with 25 and 30 years of career, to receive 769 €, which is the national minimum wage, Minister. This is shameful for those who care for people. As for nurses, when is the correction of injustices related to those that are virtual positions? By the time the return of the 2018 retroactives, which is in the law, and the correction of the confusion that was created with the contest for managers, in particular in the Algarve, in which do they have the competition already completed and never again exit the list? How about pharmacists, when is a serious negotiation with pharmacists? They have a 1999 salary table, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Pause.]] Mr. President, this movement on the PS bench is a disrespect for who you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u244	It's socialist disrespect.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u245	I understand the need and the difficulties they have to enter the bench, but... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u246	Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was talking about pharmacists. By what time, Minister, a serious negotiation? When is Mr. Minister available for the career to be valued? In particular, in relation to doctors. Full dedication? Oh, my God! This is full exhaustion! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u248	This is a new work regime that you are proposing to doctors. What you are proposing is differences between specialties: some work 35 hours and others—I already know that for you 35 plus 5 is not 40 hours! — they actually work 35 plus 5. Others will have to work 250 hours, which, in fact, if we do well on the annual accounts, is almost one extra week of work per month. For when is the appreciation of health professionals? Mr Minister, are you not concerned about the burden of health professionals, which questions security? Mr Minister, you know how to do your business, but if you do your business at this 250 hours, see what you're doing this month. In 10 months, I'd give at least 25 hours. You do the math and you'll see if you don't do almost an extra week's work. So, Minister, there's one thing I want to say to you: the National Health Service doesn't need reliable conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u249	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u250	The National Health Service needs serious measures, and the Minister knows which path he has to take and he does not do it just because he does not want to. He knows very well that he has to value health professionals immediately, as the CFP proposes, he has to value the need for investment, but he is not making public resources for the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u252	It is already about 55% of the State Health Budget that goes to private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u253	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u254	So to conclude with your understanding, Mr President, I would like to say the following: the guarantee of care for all Portuguese, regardless of their economic condition, is guaranteed by the National Health Service — public, Minister! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u255	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u256	Ex. Mr. President, Ex.mas Sr.as and Mrs. Members, Ex. Minister and other members of the Government, an initial note to some of the statements which Mr. Minister made here. It is a fact that who created the legislation of the National Health Service was António Arnaut, a person for whom I have the greatest respect and admiration. We are defenders—as it has already been said today—of the National Health Service, no doubt, but it is also a fact that, from 1980 to 1995, it was governments of the PSD that implemented the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] It was in this period that the day-to-day health centres opened, it was in this period that it invested in maternal and child health. In fact, they were great victories, Minister. What happened was that, from a certain point of view, we began to have degradation of that same service. Stay where António Arnaut is, when today he hears that pregnant women knock at the motherhood door and that they have to jump from maternity to maternity, he will certainly not be well where he is, listening to this. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Mr Minister, I would also like to tell you something else about this degradation: Mr Minister spoke a lot about the creation of new services, and it is a fact that the Socialist Party has created new services, but it is also a fact that, from 2000 onwards — and I speak with knowledge of the cause, because I was President of the House — who began to close the night emergencies, the night services of the health centres, were the governments of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] It was from this point on that the time of health centres was reduced and it was from that time that people had to go into the emergencies of central hospitals. But, Mr Minister, I would like to say to you the following: the pink narrative of the Socialist Party contrasts with the diagnosis of health professionals and the people, and this diagnosis points to a National Health Service that, in continuing as it is, is without direction or future. State servants feel devalued and disregarded by this government. They characterize it as an accountable government, which acts with palliative therapies. Mr Minister, if the government overburdens health professionals too much without the proper compensation, they will increasingly abandon the National Health Service. If the Government requires health professionals to work without adequate conditions, the service provided is less quality. Regarding the conditions of health professionals, they do not come again with the period of the troika, because we all know who called the troika to this country. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister, this is the case with doctors, nurses, pharmacists and all other professionals of the National Health Service. If the government is concerned about the patients, you can never forget this. The changes, in order to succeed, have to involve the workers. In view of the lack of time available, I will ask you a few specific questions for which I would like to have concrete answers. So I ask you whether there are limitations on the medical prescription of medicines or on the analysis of patients in primary health care? I ask you if this is true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u257	Do you really think that's possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u258	Second question: is it true that, in fact, the normal working day of doctors can be increased to 9 hours a day under the full dedication scheme, and confirms that doctors from the National Health Service may have to do the 250 hours extra work per year instead of the current 150 hours? Above all, I ask you whether the increase that you are proposing, in terms of maturity, compensates for this effort or whether it is only an adaptability to what has been the loss of income of doctors. Those are questions. Third question, Minister : how much did the National Health Service spend on medical services in 2022? Was it 170 million, that is, almost twice what was spent when the PS came to power? In other words, who else hires the private is the Socialist Party? Fourth question: what is the estimated investment of the National Health Service this year, considering that only 16 % of the 750 million planned in the State budget were executed until July? For people who hear us, investing less means less services or worse services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u259	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u260	I'm done, Mr. President. In August, there were fewer beds in continuous care than in 2022. I wonder whether the Minister considers that the increase of 5500 beds by the end of 2025 is financially sustainable in the future. Finally, Minister, the National Health Service is one of the greatest achievements of April, but it has been in brain death, because it has been without strategy and without vision of the future, limiting itself to maintaining vital functions. I note that Mr. Minister is making an effort to improve to maintain vital functions and save agony. For this, it is essential to have professionals mobilized and motivated, but that is not what seems to happen. We need a National Humanist, Personalist Health Service that responds to everyone, poor and rich. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u261	To make a request for clarification, I now have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u262	Mr President, Mr.a and Mr. Minister, Mr.a and Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs.as and Mrs. Members, since the creation of the SNS, the National Health Service, which Portuguese can enjoy a public health service, universally and tend to be free of charge. As we are celebrating today a great efemeride, I would like to remind, in addition to Dr. António Arnaut, that, as Minister of State for Social Affairs, with the "Arnaut office", gave a decisive and irreversible impetus to have a SNS, in this II Constitutional Government, not only its composition, in which socialists and right-wing people, Christian Democrats, and the leader of that government, Dr. Mário Soares. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Beyond the critical phase of the covid-19 pandemic, we are able to recover the care activity, and I also took advantage of this moment here to make a public recognition to Dr. Marta Temid, the PS government and all those who had a decisive role to overcome this difficult pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party's electoral programmes and its government's programmes have taken on the commitment with the Portuguese—and I stress the word 'compromising' — of constant improvement of the SNS, its capabilities and working conditions of its professionals. Knowing that « the word given is an honest word», we started a negotiation process with doctors. For us, it is not enough to recognize, as others have already done, and I am here to quote a former member of the government: 'If there is a sector that has been greatly shaken by the troika, it was health. Measures were taken more or less blindly and in such a violent way that led to a massive abandonment of doctors and nurses in the public sector," said Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite recently. For us, it's time to act, we don't have enough diagnosis. That's what we're doing. We understand well the importance of human resources in the SNS and are promoting measures to value the work of doctors, where full dedication is a starting point, the unprecedented increase in the number of family health units is a means and the increase of responsibilities centres integrated in hospitals is the proof and the concept of what we affirm. Yesterday we learned about another set of measures that, together with others already taken, constitute instruments for the improvement of the National Health Service. However, the unions representing doctors seem to be against the measures announced. But I wonder: will the doctors be against these measures? Will the doctors be against the measures that will improve their career and salary table?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u263	And the unions, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u264	Is it possible to say that these measures are good for the SNS and for the users, positive for the doctors, but bad for the unions? Mr President, Mr.a and Mr. Minister, Mr.a and Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs.as and Mrs. Members, in a recently published study by Prof. Pita Barros and Eduardo Costa, it is reported that the World Health Organization ( WHO ) projects that in 2030 some 10 to 15 million health professionals are missing. In addition, in Europe, 18 in 30 countries reported lack of nurses and 13 in 30 assumed lack of family doctors. In view of the course already taken, I would like to ask the Minister about the requirements that the country is in a position to meet with the aim of continuing to improve the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u265	To make the last request for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u266	Mr President, Minister, we do not let ourselves be disturbed by self-reliance. Mr Minister wants to make history, and we can make here the history of the women who fought for the right to abortion in Portugal, but that also means having the courage to make the cartography of the silent boycott against the right of women to abortion at this time. It takes courage to do this debate and that is the courage we are calling for today. In 2018, the Left Block asked a set of questions to SNS entities. He concluded that there were many real obstacles to access to abortion by women in Portugal. The government didn't want to know about this. In February 2023, a few months ago, a report of the DN (Diary of News) reported on the violence of these obstacles, the humiliation that they meant for women and the answers that were given by many hospitals. « If you want to have an abortion, call the private clinic and pay», it was one of the completed answers. at that time, the Left Block asked for an audit. Mr. Minister replied: "What audit for? Everything will be solved in a few weeks because the problem is punctual. It is not worth wasting time with studies or with great reflections. They're spot problems, they're identified and they'll be solved in a few weeks. Do not keep on seeking. ” The report we now know, from the Health Regulatory Authority, does not speak of any topical problems, nor of any solved problems. On the contrary, it confirms the idea of a silent boycott to women's right to safe abortion in Portugal. It says that, of the 42 hospital entities, 15 do not perform IVG and of the 15 that do not perform, 2 do not lead; says that the referral problems are generalized in primary health care; says that access to IVG is a maze and that many women are pushed out of the legal period, that is, for the situation of a crime and, worse, for the situation of unsafe abortions. I also remember, if we want to talk about history, that abortion wasn't safe was 3. the cause of death of women before the legalization of IVG. So I ask you, to conclude, Minister: how will you solve this? I think it's your duty to answer, but I also ask you for an act of courage. I would ask you to answer here today if, when you said that there was no need for an audit, you said it out of incompetence, because you do not know what was going on in the SNS, even though you are in general knowledge, or if you said it out of dishonesty, because of this impulse of self-reliance that makes you not speak truth to the country, even though you are in the face of all the difficulties that women have to access to legal abortion, which was so difficult to conquer in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u267	In reply, Mr Minister for Health now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u268	Mr President, to answer so many questions in the remaining five minutes, I will try to do so in an aggregate way, and the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have been kind enough to address these questions will understand that I do it, without addressing each and every one of them individually, by saving time. One of the ways to deprive the National Health Service is even to confuse the problems that we cannot deny, which are serious and which have to be solved, with the general results and with the general overview of what is happening in the National Health Service. The unquestionable truth is that it was the SNS that resolved the problem of access to voluntary termination of pregnancy and that is what continues to happen. Data from such studies, from the reports of the Directorate-General for Health, show this in an unquestionable way. It did not happen what the opponents of decriminalization propagated to the seven winds, which was going to generalize access to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and which would become a normal thing. None of that happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u269	No, it really didn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u270	The number remained stable and even decreased, and decreased for a very important reason: because not only does SNS perform IVG in the appropriate time period (about five to six days of average waiting) in the overwhelming majority of cases, as more than 90 % of women who use IVG are subsequently oriented towards a family support consultation. [[Protests by IL Member Joana Cordeiro and PCP Member João Dias.]] This is the general picture. If it does not happen on some sites in a timely manner, it has to be corrected and is being corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u271	Punctually? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u272	But it cannot deny the effort of the SNS to respond to this momentum of recognition of women's rights and of fighting for the cause of public health. About access to family doctors, which several Mrs. Members pointed out, the issue is not to fail to recognize that we need much more family doctors. Clearly, we need a lot more family doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u273	It's not been weeks, it's been months!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u274	It's been seven months!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u275	This is why over the last four years, year after year, more than 500 doctors have entered the training of general and family medicine specialization boarding school. We need these doctors to respond to the huge volume of retirements that are taking place depending on whether they are applying the great medical resources of the 70s. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] But let's see: the reality of this competition this May of this year, the last competition held, is that more than 90 % of the specialists who finished the specialty at the end of 2022 were set up in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] If more than 90 % is not a number that impresses them, I have even difficulty in finding another one that impresses them. Yes, the generalization of model B USF will make a contribution that is, in fact, a contribution that the sector has always complained about, that it has claimed for many years and that we are now going to carry out. I must tell you, and the year is still far from over, that the year of 2023 is already the year in which more USF have moved to model B since 2010. If we stayed here, it was true, but we're going a lot further than that with all certainty. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] I also find it difficult — without forgetting to recognize that we have problems in the maternal and child health network, because, if we had no problems, what was really desirable would happen, it was that all motherhoods would work uninterruptedly — that they would devalue the results that were achieved. Today, in the maternity ward of the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier, the motherhood of São Francisco Xavier and the motherhood of Santa Maria function in aggregate. We are not far from having the largest public maternity in the country at the Hospital de Santa Maria. We'll have it after the works that will take place there. Then, yes, it will become the country's largest public maternity. at this moment, it is not a great maternity, it is far from being the country's largest public maternity. But in public maternity at the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier, during August, 340 children were born, with all safety conditions, and, in fact, maintaining a level of cesareans around 30%. of these 340 births, 100 were cesarean, unlike the generalization of cesarean practice, performed in many cases only by commercial objectives. So I have a lot of difficulty in saying that this is not an answer from the National Health Service. On local health units, Mrs. Isabel Pires specifically mentioned that of Bragança. I was at the ULS in Bragança eight days ago. I have been opening new services: the expansion of Bragança's intensive care, which is a relatively new reality, because there was no intensive care service at Bragança Hospital; a new gastroenterology service at Mirandela Hospital has already allowed, this year, more than double the number of tests performed, about 5800 tests performed in the first seven months of this year; there is a new mental health service. Just over two decades ago, in Bragança district, there was a single psychiatrist, who, in fact, has his name today in the mental health clinic service that was inaugurated last week in Bragança, Dr. Machado Rodrigues. Today we have a mental health service in Bragança, with a dozen psychiatry professionals and many other professionals. It is not purely and simply true that there is no evolution and that these results are negative. Now, of course, local health units are a model of organization, they are not a universal panacea and they won't solve everything. They will make an ongoing and persistent contribution for the SNS to strengthen and continue to progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must say that when the statistics are cited, it is appropriate to at least know what is being said. What is at stake is that we have not made progress in the evolution of science and technology. Clearly, progress has been made as a result of the evolution of science and technology. What is at stake is that, at 25 April, infant mortality in Portugal was 55 deaths per 1,000 children during the first year of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u276	So we're going to ignore the increase in infant mortality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u277	at that time, in many European countries, infant mortality was already below 15 and in some cases less than 10. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is at stake is that, 50 years later, in Portugal, infant mortality is 2, 6 deaths per 1000 live births. In fact, three of the four best results of always infant mortality in Portugal were even in the last three years. I repeat, three of the four best results! The above had been in 2010. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This proves that our system is still working and that it is one of the best in Europe. There is no doubt, it is only to see the reports of the suspicious World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u279	Mr. Minister has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u280	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying only that the only thing that I take advantage of Mr. André Ventura's intervention is to draw attention to the importance of also referring to a special thanks of who is today Minister of Health to whom, during these terrible years of the pandemic, addressed the Directorate-General for Health, Dr. Graça Feitas, who is here in the galleries,... [[P.S.'s applause, having Mrs. Marta Feared to stand up.]] ... and to whom, during these years, he had the heavy responsibility of being Minister of Health and helped Portugal have had exemplary results in combating the pandemic — thank you, Mrs Marta Temido! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u281	We will now move on to the closing stage of the debate with speeches from all parliamentary groups and from the Government. To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was marked not only with the aim of marking the 44 years of the National Health Service, one of the fundamental instruments of our democracy, but also to make a state of the art of the SNS itself. It was no surprise that we heard Mr. Minister mention everything he said, as if only good choices if he lived in the SNS today and only good indicators existed. The truth is that the discrepancy between the reality of users and professionals throughout the country and the fancy government narrative is too great and does not allow us to have a more serious debate about the problems to be solved, because it is not enough to say that we have SNS and therefore it is all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u283	And everything's fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u284	No one says it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u285	Don't! You really need to look at the SNS problems and realize where they should be solved, how they should be solved. So let's go to those problems, because Mr Minister doesn't want to talk about them. Hundreds of doctors are missing in the SNS and some even leave the SNS because of incompetence and responsibility of this government. Since August this year, 1, 6 million people are without a family doctor. Where is the promise of a family doctor for each Portuguese and Portuguese? Where are you going, gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Times and waiting lists for consultations and surgeries are increasing. There are resignations in services, such as some public service maternity leave, which are not understood, except because of the inability and lack of the government's will to solve the problems identified by health professionals of those services. Access to IVG is being challenged. And no, Minister, the problems are not on the spot: 50 of the 55 ACES (health centres groups) do not consult. This is not a point problem: 15 hospitals do not perform IVG.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u286	It's the conscience, the conscience of doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u287	This is not a point problem: it is calling into question a right which was very difficult to conquer for women, and the Minister was obliged to look at this in another way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u288	They want to force doctors to kill!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u289	Doctors don't kill!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u290	But there is more: it is difficult to access primary care. There is so much talk about public investment, but it is not said that too much of this investment still goes to the private. In the middle of this, the answer we have is a leak to reality and there are only announcements of management changes. They make everything look very simple, when, in fact, the problems are here to stay. I also wanted to talk about the question of health professionals. We have heard a lot of talks today from the Government on the part of the Socialist Party about negotiation: "We are negotiating, we are always very open to negotiating. » The truth is that we have reached the end of these negotiations and there is not a single representative structure of professionals who agree with the solution presented and who accept it. In the case of doctors, you don't understand what way to negotiate this is. But let's look at other professionals, too, who are in even more serious situations. Since SNS pharmacists have been mentioned today, they have their wage table frozen for about 20 years. It's not admissible. What has been said to these professionals? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister personally does not meet with them, but there was someone from the Ministry who went there to meet with them. And what was said to these professionals? Oh, my God! Attention, it is not a novelty, we have already heard it about what happened with other public professionals, but this is to cry out to heaven: "The Ministry is available to negotiate, the Ministry is very open to any changes, provided they have no financial impact. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u291	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u292	Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, where has there ever been a negotiation on wage tables that have no financial implications? This is the same as saying to professionals: "No, we don't want to negotiate; no, we don't want to know how to thaw wage tables; no, we don't want to know how to improve the service that is provided by the National Health Service, not even to improve the life and working conditions of health professionals, who do so much in our country. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u293	Madam Member, your speaking time is over. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u294	I shall finish, Mr President, with two sentences. The fact is that, in the general context, the policy of the Government and the Minister of Health is the policy of burying the head in the sand, pushing the problems with the belly and having faith that the thing happens. on our part, that is not our policy. We need a strong National Health Service, yes, by users, by professionals, with an investment that is not bleeding directly to the private, with the appreciation of all SNS professionals, because, yes, the SNS, 44 years later, continues to be the only universal guarantee of access to health for millions of people in our country and what we are seeing is that the government is ending this dream. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u295	I take advantage of it to greet and greet the ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretaries of State and wish all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, an excellent parliamentary year. Now, yes, I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, in the person of Mr John Dias. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u296	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys : Today, in this debate on the SNS, everyone has identified and pointed out the serious difficulties that the SNS faces. But one thing is certain: the reasons and interests for which the different parties here discussed the serious problems of the SNS are not the same and, in many situations, are even contradictory, especially in the solutions and measures proposed. For the PCP, what is required is another health policy, which values the SNS, starting with its health professionals; another health policy, which translates into a real and considerable strengthening of investment in the National Health Service. Only in this way will it be possible to end the high number of users without a family doctor, the high waiting times for consultations, surgeries, treatments and examinations, and to end the outrage of health professionals, obsolete equipment and degradation or inadequacy of facilities that do not respond to the difficulties experienced in the SNS. For others, for those who have always opposed the creation of the SNS, talking about their problems is not to solve them; it is first to justify the delivery to private groups of the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u297	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u298	Like Avante's business!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u299	This is a well-known strategy in which the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival invest everything they have. The PS and its Government, by an absolute majority, claiming that they defend the SNS, have shown the opposite way, slamming the door to the private, feeding the strategy of degradation of the SNS through the devaluation of its professionals, by degradation of working conditions, by de-investment in equipment and technology, ending up doing as well or better as what the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival would, if they could, do in the destruction of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u300	Oh, my God! That's so fucked up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u301	Mrs. Members, the PS Government has carried out a policy to reduce public health services so as to buy more from the private sector, which inevitably corresponds to the highest costs. But, mainly, in a more or less disguised way, the PS is following the same path of the right-wing and extreme-right parties to privatize the public health service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u303	Otherwise, see: with so many difficulties that the SNS has experienced, there has not yet been a measure that is strengthening the SNS. What the government has helped, and enough, is to solve the problems of private groups, which profit at the expense of the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u304	So it's the PS? Now, after all, is it the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u305	Certainly, the network of maternity, emergency, etc. can be discussed. and organize them to give better answers. Certainly so, but that is not the government's objective. Yes, it is to meet the conditions for the closure of a large number of services. Therefore, we have no doubt that the defense of the National Health Service is a fundamental battle of our time. We call for this battle all those who defend the SNS and see in the SNS the best tool to ensure the right to health of the whole population, starting with health professionals, who we greet here. This greeting is extensible to all who tomorrow—as soon as tomorrow—will manifest themselves in the 18 districts of the country, on the National Defense and Strengthening Day of the SNS, organized by the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ). Without a doubt this struggle for the SNS must be a struggle for all and for all, sure that they can count on the PCP in the unbreakable defense of the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u306	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u307	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The National Health Service is 44 years old today. On 15 September 1979, and I quote the law to date, « was created the National Health Service, whereby the State guarantees the right to health protection in accordance with the Constitution ». On this point, I repeat what I have already said: the creation of the SNS was an important reform, which has ensured to all citizens general, universal and trendly free access to health care. It was the creation and development of the SNS that allowed many health gains to be achieved, such as the drastic reduction of infant mortality or the increase in the average life expectancy, and its contribution to improving the quality of life and greater social justice is undeniable. But the truth is, today, we have a SNS that faces many challenges and that has failed to adapt to the current growing needs of an increasingly aging society with more chronic diseases. What we have is also a government with no ideas that continues to insist on the same solutions in the past, which are obviously not working, to respond to the present and the future. Therefore, we continue to see problems that are recurrent: people without a family doctor, who are increasingly, contrary to what is promised; waiting lists for consultations and surgeries that continue to increase; hospital emergencies that are overcrowded or that end, although now it is said to be "predictability" and "rotativity"; queues at the door of health centres to get a password for consultation; tired, exhausted and unwilling health professionals working in the SNS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Liberal Initiative, the current health system centralized in the State and the SNS no longer serves, because the problems that exist are not only consequences of failures in management or resources, but are mainly consequences of the conception of the current health model, which concentrates all functions in the State, which is dominated by prejudice against the private sector and against the social sector, which is competitive and does not advocate incentives to the efficiency of the system. [[The Minister of Health's laughter.]] But more than anything else, the current model no longer serves, because it denies people freedom of choice about their health. For the Liberal Initiative, it is urgent and necessary to pass on a health that is focused on the state and on the provider for a health that focuses on people and on the best health outcomes; a health focused on the provision of better health care and freedom of choice, in which access is truly general and universal, leaving no one behind due to lack of alternatives. Thus, the future of health in Portugal will necessarily have to pass through a more coherent, more balanced, more transparent model, which bets on health promotion and disease prevention, in which the public provider, the SNS, exists strong, but on an equal footing with the private and social health sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u308	You want it all with less taxes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u309	All this is necessary to ensure, effectively and always, everyone without exception, access to health care, in time and time, with quality and safety. It requires a model that pushes health gains and that has incentives in itself to innovation, efficiency, dignity and appreciation of health professionals, to continuous improvement of care provided and, of course, to the satisfaction of users. No, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have to invent the wheel. These health systems models exist and work. That is why the Liberal Initiative has presented the universal system of access to health, the SUS-Health, a structural, courageous and innovative solution, which guarantees everyone, without exception, their constitutional right to health, in particular, to true universal access to health care and not to waiting lists, with freedom of choice and not only within the SNS, and which strengthens the role of the State as a guarantee that no one can be excluded or be deprived. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this proposal would involve a profound revolution in the Portuguese health system, the answer is 'yes', but how we cannot continue. I end by quoting what António Arnaut referred to on 28 June 1979 in his statement of vote on the bill that gave rise to the SNS: « Health is not everything in life, but without it nothing is worth it. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u311	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We spoke here today and discussed the SNS, about the 44 years of an SNS who was born as a spoiled child, with several parents, who grew badly and irresponsiblely and who today is in a mid-age crisis. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, I would like to assume - here - as the heir of these Christian Democrats of the Second Constitutional Government, which founded the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u314	Yes, we are the electoral heirs of these Christian Democrats, who, as in all Europe, have founded the social state. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u315	Shut the fuck up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u316	God free me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u317	It was not the Socialists, the Trotskyists and the Marxists who founded the social state. It was the Christian Democrats, of whom we are electoral heirs. [[PS Protests and laughter.]] To hear here today the Minister of the Government of António Costa who was a Secretary of State of Socrates to spread the responsibilities and blame for the chaos in the SNS and the pre-rotation situation in public services is shameful, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests by the Minister of Health.]] Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, please tell the members of the Government that this Prime Minister has been in office for seven years and ten months. It's almost eight years, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. It's your responsibility, it's all yours and it's yours to the end. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Seven years and ten months is a long time to de-governance and destroy and kill the most vulnerable, using as a weapon the denial of health care and the degradation of the SNS. Yes, killing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Many died in the huge queues of waiting. The speaker showed the photocopy of news. Others died in the corridors of public hospitals like this old man who died in Évora without anyone giving for him. The speaker showed the photocopy of news. Some died at the hospital door, waiting for a transfer from a central hospital, such as the Beatriz Angelo Hospital, because they were in the central hospital, but this hospital did not have all the valences. The speaker showed the photocopy of news. Others died waiting for INEM in front of a hospital, because they were not rescued either by INEM or by that hospital, which had the urgency closed. The speaker showed the photocopy of news. Some died in displacements because the emergencies, such as this pregnant woman, which lost her baby, were closed after traveling more than 100 km between two hospitals. The speaker showed the photocopy of news. Many died because of lack of medicines, which Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) did not approve, as is the case with pembrolizumab, for women with triple negative breast cancer. The speaker showed the photocopy of news. Many also died in hospitals because they had been discharged and sent home, like this woman, now. A year later, it happened exactly as it promoted the resignation of the previous Minister of Health: another pregnant woman died at the hospital in Guimarães, after being sent home. Mrs. Members, many have also put an end to their lives, committing suicide. In Portugal, three people committed suicide per day. Why? As a result of the despair caused by your policies, but mainly because of the lack of a serious public policy of mental health. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, this is our reality, which you call 'populism'. They call it 'populism' because they live in a privileged bubble, because this is indeed the reality the Portuguese people say 'approach'! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u318	After one year of the replacement made in the Ministry of Health and having Dr. Manuel Pizarro already a year's term of office, if anything has changed, it has been worse. The change of Minister of Health showed a poor summer in serious cases, in closures and in disputes with health professionals. [[Protests by the Minister of Health.]] Private care remains in chaos. [[Protests by the Minister of Health.]] Earlier in the Health Committee, we had the Committee of Users of the Bomberral Health Centre, which gave us a catastrophic scenario with 90 % of the users without a family doctor. These, without a family doctor, were promised a new hospital, the seventh new hospital to be promised by this government, the West Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u319	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u320	Mr. President, I will conclude. Like the Algarve hospital, the Lisbon hospital, Sintra hospital, Évora hospital and Madeira hospital, all were promised and all are to be fulfilled. Now, the communications agency hired by the SNS Executive Directorate for thousands of euros and PS friend brought a new idea. As they can no longer promise hospitals, because all Portuguese see that they are lying, then come promise these ULS, presenting them as the panacea for the whole SNS. No one believes it anymore. Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Doctors said, and I will quote: "If these ULS are a copy of those that already exist in the country, we are facing a serious problem because they do not work or work very badly, with few resources and very little attention from the Ministry of Health and Executive Directorate. Do not keep on seeking. ” But perhaps the most important one, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this supposed reform will not solve the real problems of the SNS and that the Portuguese suffer every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u321	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u322	You've been talking a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u323	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u324	That's why, sirs. Mr President, I will conclude — it is increasingly time to say 'approach' and censor this government once and for all. That's enough and that's enough! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u325	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Melo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u327	It is a reflection of our humanity, of our compassion, of our commitment to the well-being of all citizens. It is the materialization of the principle that health is a fundamental right and not a privilege reserved for some. How many of us know the anxiety and fear of the disease? How many of us have been in a hospital room waiting for news from a loved one? Or how many of us have ever seen family life be saved at any public hospital in this country? The SNS should be the security network that welcomes us right now, which tells us that we are not alone and that our health matters, regardless of our social, economic or our origin. at this very moment, throughout the country, thousands and thousands of dedicated health professionals are working tirelessly, often sacrificing time with their families, to take care of us. They are the anonymous heroes who comfort us when we are fragile, who bring us hope, when everything seems lost. The SNS is a witness to the dedication of these professionals and their mission is, above all, to save lives, to alleviate suffering. [[PSD applause.]] SNS is an example of solidarity. by paying our taxes, when someone is sick, all of us, as a society, contribute to the treatment of others. This solidarity is one of the pillars of our democracy and our social justice. In addition, the SNS is the investment in our future. If we ensure that everyone has access to quality health care, we are investing in education, productivity and social cohesion. We are building a stronger, healthier and more resilient society. [[PSD applause.]] [[The Minister of Health's laughter.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this SNS no longer exists. The SNS is going through a deep crisis, the largest in the last two decades. The professionals, the great capital of the SNS, do not have working conditions and are demotivated and exhausted. In the SNS, the high response times in the waiting lists for consultations and surgeries continue to be delayed. at SNS, finally, patients, especially the most disadvantaged, have increasingly difficulty accessing them. Therefore, or the government quickly reverses its action, rather than mere propaganda numbers or inconsequential announcements that no one will remember in a year, or we will see the degradation of the SNS worsen even further in the future, questioning the sustainability of our social state. I remember, ladies. Members, one of the last sentences of Dr.António Arnaut, who today has been so well quoted: « The reform of the SNS is, above all, an ethical requirement of civilization. It's not fair that people suffer and die because of lack of medical care. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] But this is the problem. The government does not reform, the government does not plan for the long term, does not measure results, makes suspicious announcements, at the risk of sometimes a good idea becoming another failed bet. In the PSD, we refuse rule and framework policies and do not believe in miraculous solutions that then, in practice, do not bring any effective improvement, do not extend the provision of care to populations and run to the risk of further frustrating health professionals. This seems to be happening with the new regime of full dedication, which gives less than what promises and substantially worsens the working conditions of professionals. This seems to happen in the diploma of the family health units and, now, in the universalization of local health units throughout the country. The government continues to legislate behind professional orders, without talking to the unions, without involving those who are, every day, on the ground, to prevent the SNS from falling apart at once. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u328	Now you have to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u329	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with the time that I still have to say, quite simply, that the PSD is where it has always been: on the Portuguese side, to fight for the dignity of the treatment of our patients. The PSD defends what it has always defended: an SNS where citizens have freedom of choice...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u331	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u332	...and access to quality health care, in good time. The SNS has been years, but while the Socialist Party prefers to sing the congratulations, the PSD prefers to offer a gift and present alternative proposals. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] It is urgent to design basic territorial policies and to manage proximity. It is urgent that health policies lead to social well-being and that public policies help future generations to win the battle of quality of life. The PSD defends health as a fundamental instrument in promoting equal opportunities, which we both defend and we will never abdicate on behalf of a more just and prosperous country for all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u333	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health : On September 15, 1979, Law No. 56 / 79, which created the National Health Service, was published in the Diário da República, implementing one of the most important achievements for Portuguese people. The National Health Service, in addition to involving all health care, also assumes the promotion and surveillance of health, the prevention of disease, the diagnosis and treatment of all diseases. Looking at the timeline, over the past 44 years, the National Health Service has placed the country in a top place, with regard to the quality of life of millions of citizens, and has also fought many inequalities in Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u335	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u336	The National Health Service has contributed decisively to the increase of healthy life expectancy to the birth of men and women and to the increase in the percentage of Portuguese people who consider their health to be good or very good today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that, for this remarkable fact, it took years, years of much work, years of many health professionals, many dedicated people, a lot of investment and an effort that we can never forget: the effort of all Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We continue with this purpose—we know, almost all of us continue with this purpose, but more than others—the purpose of improving timely access to health care, strengthening investments in health care. Otherwise, we see : only in 2023, transfers from the State budget to the SNS will total more EUR 12 billion compared to 2015, which is the year many like to account for. It is more than 56 % budgetary reinforcement. It's work, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u337	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u338	From whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u339	The strengthening of human resources in March of this year was more than 25%. There are 30,691 health professionals and we all know that they don't reach the needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u340	Yeah, yeah, and we all know they're not coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u341	Despite the evolution of the care movement in the National Health Service already highlighted today — more consultations, more surgical interventions, more emergency episodes — the numbers show us that the production of care increases significantly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u342	The report does not say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u343	... but the search for care also increases, and this is the paradox of the National Health Service. We must not forget that the profile of users has also changed: we live more, we are more demanding, and even better, because we talk about the right to health. But there is also a reform in the organization of care, which consists mainly of, as has already been pointed out, the integration of care. The National Health Service will certainly improve, but we do not fail, the problems will continue to exist, because ultimately, as we all realize, many of them have their own success, that is, the increase of the average life expectancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that's a good reason! We will continue to fight, we will continue to improve the National Health Service. I would like to conclude by greeting Mr President of the Health Committee, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, for the opportunity of this debate, and I cannot fail to warmly greet Dr. Graça Freitas, who today honors us with his presence in the galleries,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and the April Captains, who, by coincidence, are here too. Thank you very much. Your presence is a stimulus to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Stand up! Get up!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u344	If you allow me a personal note too, my compliments to Dr. Graça Freitas, old friend, and above all a compliment for her work and a hope that she will continue to have a long life after her work in the Directorate-General for Health. Thank you very much. Now, to close this debate, Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Manuel Pizarro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indeed a happy coincidence that on 15 September, on which 44 is signed. the anniversary of the creation of the National Health Service, we may have the privilege to have in the Hemicycle the presence of a group of Captains of April, because I have no doubt that I and the Portuguese feel that the National Health Service is one of the great achievements of Portuguese democracy and, therefore, we want to thank you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u346	And St. John and St. Mary were built by whom, now? Oh, my God! They never built a hospital again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u347	It is very positive that there is such a great consensus in Portuguese society about the importance of the National Health Service. What is at stake is not to point out their difficulties, their inadequacies, the answer that we are not always able to give in an attentive and humanized way. These problems must be scaled up, discussed, encouraged those with government responsibilities to act better, improved resource management and increased resources. But to do this, there is no utility for those who support the SNS in reducing and devaluing the results and work of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The year 2022 was the year of greatest activity in the history of the SNS: 34 million consultations in primary health care; 13 million consultations in hospitals; 6 million episodes of emergency; 758 000 surgeries. How can anyone describe this as a service that is ending, as a service that is not able to reinvent itself, as a service that does not respond to Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u348	And it works!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u349	I also note that on the side of the opposition Members there was not a single word for the clinical results of the SNS, for the results of infant mortality, for the results of cancer treatment, pointed out in a report this year by the European Commission as the best in Europe, persistently of the best in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u350	The PS didn't talk about them either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u351	All this is ignored, as if the daily effort of the 150 000 professionals of the SNS should only be caricatured with the difficulties of the problems of the SNS. This is deeply unfair and is even quite hypocritical. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u352	What did the PS say about that? Oh, my God! Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u353	In the spectrum of the right, there is a magical solution that cannot be taken. The magic solution is summarized in this programme: it is necessary to strengthen public SNS, more professionals are needed in public SNS, better pay conditions are needed for public SNS professionals. Until then, that is really the programme of the current government, so that is exactly what we are working on. But at the same time, there is a need to hire more services to the private sector. Well, we have made the hiring of the private services that are necessary and I will refer to this, without any prejudice. Then comes the crown of all this: it is to get more investment in the SNS, more professionals, better remuneration of professionals, more hiring with the private, all this, reducing taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u354	It's called management!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u355	Well, and they still admire that the Portuguese don't give them confidence to rule the SNS. I think most Portuguese people, when they make that decision, know exactly what they are deciding about! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand the anguish with how much there is to do, but I can assure this House that somewhere in the first quarter of next year, 2024,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u356	Go away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u357	... you will have the opportunity to participate in the inauguration of a new public hospital, the nearby hospital of Sintra, built, in fact, in a generous collaboration with the City Hall of Sintra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u358	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u359	... which reveals that it is possible to dialogue with society and to obtain support from many institutions for the reform of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u360	What about the Algarve? Oh, my God! He's got four stones!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u361	That's not a hospital, it's a day center!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u362	They can also — not soon at the beginning of the year, but in 2024 — participate in the opening of the new central hospital of Alentejo, which will allow the Alentejos to qualify for health care which they also, of course, deserve, in this so scattered population, in such an area relevant to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u363	There is no better example of SNS cooperation with the different sectors than the Covid-19 and Flu vaccination programme, which will start on 29 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u364	What about the Algarve hospital? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u365	It was not only Portugal that, thanks to the centralised purchasing effort by the European Union, had access and is having access to the necessary quantity of vaccines against covid-19, which are already adapted to the new strain, have already arrived a few hundred thousand to Portugal and will reach all that is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u366	What about the fans? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u367	Thanks to the effort of the SNS and thanks to the cooperation with the pharmacy, in addition to all the health centers in the country, there will be more than 2200 pharmacies where all and all Portuguese over 60 years old, who are those who have clinical indication, are invited to join the vaccination to protect themselves, to protect their families and to help preserve the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a dialogue and an effort by the Government and the SNS with the involvement of the private sector, the pharmacies that are spread throughout the national territory. [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u368	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u369	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, of course, I have reserved my agenda for Parliament to participate in this debate and, from the afternoon, to participate in the colloquium which the Health Committee, chaired by Mr Maló de Abreu, will carry out. Tomorrow, as Minister of Health, I and the government team will also sign the SNS anniversary in a way that I find very relevant and that I do not resist sharing here: in Coimbra, in the auditorium of the Pediatric Hospital of Coimbra, at a meeting with the associations of patients throughout the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u370	It's good that we don't forget that at any time. It's for them that SNS exists, it's for them that SNS works every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u371	It's time for the government's agenda!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u372	So we end the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, which is an evocation of the centenary of the birth of Natalia Correia. I ask for the maximum restraint within the intervention times that are distributed and, in the order agreed at the Conference of Leaders, I begin by giving the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u373	Mr. President, let us begin with a place and for a time: A young Natália Correia was one day, for the first time, on the island of Santa Maria, in the Azores. The time was 1950. while flying over the Azores, he saw his native island, São Miguel, and went to the United States, with which she was disappointed. Disillusioned, because in 1949 the foundation of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) counted with the Country, Portugal, because of the Azores, in particular the islands of Santa Maria and the Third Islands, of its air bases, because Portugal was a founding member of NATO, but the United States did not play in the Portuguese dictatorship. It was a sense of abandonment that then took account of many of those who were doing the democratic opposition, many of whom were imprisoned. Natália Correia later wrote about this: "After the war, things changed. It doesn't cost being a hero during the war. The heroes of peace are, after all, the true historical leaders. [...] The failure of American Phillyism..."—that it had been part of — «... corresponded to the collapse of many ideals in the face of Europe. [...] Europe has been discriminated against in areas of influence. The problems associated with the lives of peoples were subjected to the interests of the ruling nations. [...] That moment was..."—for you—"...the revelation: a springing maturity gave me an awareness of my European roots. » These are words of Natalia Correia in a luminous essay that he wrote at the age of 26, called Discoveri that it was European- Impressions from a Journey to America. It is an essay that reminds us that Natalia Correia, which we know mainly by poetry, is an extraordinary essay above all. It is someone who has identified what is essential part of what is being Portugal and what is being Portuguese: a permanent tension between smallness and greatness. That is why she found out that she was a European. So she wrote, then: “We are all Hispanics. That is why she was angry, in her critical Europeanism, when the European choice led us to close the doors to Portuguese-speaking brothers instead of giving them a zone of freedom of movement and movement. Despite everything, in this essay, there is a disruption of poetry in the form of a visit by Edgar Allan Poe. Natália then wrote: « Edgar Allan Poe's ghost came late to the interview that none of us had combined. He said that men and stars were the only divine combination and, therefore, the morning star was always too early. Do not keep on seeking. ” Natalia Correia was a morning star. What would it have been, what would it not have been, if it had been born in Portugal already in democracy, in Portugal already in Europe? What would not have been her, what would not have been achieved if she had not been born in Portugal for which some, by the way, would have wanted to shoot us again?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u374	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u375	The best we can give our Portugal of the future is the conditions for many « morning stars»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u376	You've got another 100 years to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u377	...the many Natalia Correias, the many spirits free of love and curiosity that she had, can flower and guide us, with its radiance, into the future. Thank you, Natalia Correia. [[PS, PSD, BE, and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u378	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u379	It's two minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u380	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ex.M.M. Minister : The poet Natália Correia, as she would like to be evoked in her own words, was a woman who lived free of commitment to be as the others expected. on this day and in this plenary, where he performed functions, there are several faces of this unique figure that I would like to evoke. We could speak of Natalia aware of the sincerity of the animals who, in verse, wrote that the cat was « the genius that the roof holds », and that in this plenary, during the debate on the end of the bulls of death, defended measures that in the bull save the animals from suffering, reflections that, in Portugal of 2023, are not obvious to some. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Or when we discuss the rights of animals and their legal consecration, which is at risk at the Constitutional Court today, it also maintains its current status. Or even when they politically persecute themselves for saying that the bull suffers, still in our country. We could also give a voice to Natália Correia, who did not hesitate to break down party discipline to criticize the government of its own party for treating culture as the poor relative, endowed pettyly in the Budget, which continues to make sense when, in 2023, with one government of another party, 1% for culture is far from a reality. He also fought against the « ogre of the destructive forces of the supremacy of profit, whose goal neither socialism itself escapes, evicting the man of the overwhelming comfort in which, perversely, they installed it», quoting Natália itself. Natalia Correia said her cause was to fight the extinction of the causes, but her causes are more alive than ever. Natalia told us that the steps he took extended a road that did not even start. this week of the centenary of its birth, and at the moment that we approach, at broad steps, of the 50 years of April 25, when we are in a process of constitutional review and when we see so many forces threaten democracy, I appeal here, in memory and invoking Natália Correia, to the democratic forces of this Parliament that must assume themselves as depositaries of its legacy and that we commit ourselves to act and continue to extend and along the road that Natália Correia began to travel, this woman, that great woman we evoke today, but whose legacy we must perpetuate. [[P.S., BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u381	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u382	Mr President : « I will be free in the daily practice of a difficult dream », said Natalia Correia in April 1975. And so he did. Trying to summarize - she's domesticating it. Natalia cannot be summed up by a political project. « My mother said», she wrote, « when you are great, there will be a country». And so it was. Natalia was her own country. Absolutely insular. One, indivisible, autonomous, irrevocable, supreme in the internal order, equal in the external order, as all sovereigntys are. Its concept of mystical freedom, erotic, sensual, feminine, shocked our country, Portugal that lived outside it, marked by a rotten dictatorship « that contains and prolongs itself in the rheumatic reverences of the generals to mummified salazarism», as he wrote. Are we still this country of rheumatic reverence, of soft customs, or, indeed, we can never be, how much more is it because we also live in Portugal of Natalia Correia? If the choice exists, I confess. It is worth looking for redemption in your world, in your country, in the praise of heterodoxy, in your humanism, in your moral breakdown in the face of everything that is human, contrary to all the inquisitions, in your anti-despotism, in the abrasive defense of gender equality. It is worth finding reconciliation in your feminism. For a happy coincidence, yesterday I read an unpublished poem by Maria Teresa Horta: «You are that Mary of whom I invented the body, the feeling, the dream, the life. So free, so acidic, so firm, so brave and so rude. the condition of women who fly during the nights and only return by day. Women and feminists, Christmas women, we claim. We're the grandchildren of witches that they couldn't burn. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH's laughs.]] in this centenary, we thank you: thank you, Natalia, for having the courage to dream a country in the image of the red velvet of a bottle. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, L and PS deputy Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u383	Calling a witch to grandparents is nothing beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u384	Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members : Natália Correia was born 100 years ago, on the Lower Fajã, on the island of São Miguel. It is just this tribute of the Assembly of the Republic to a personality of relevance to Portuguese culture and political life of the 20th century. Natália Correia was an important figure of Portuguese poetry for its vast poetic and literary work, which left us rich images that remained in our collective imagination, but also as a publicist of the best that the Portuguese poets have linked us. In the two distinct moments in which she served as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, Natália Correia stood out as a combative parliamentary in defense of the culture and women's rights and was a personality that contributed, with her poetic talent, to the enrichment of parliamentary works, in interventions marked not only by this combativity but also by the irony and the beauty of her speech. Natalia Correia was a controversial and courageous woman; intransigent and provocative in how she defended the causes in which she believed; indomitable in how she took on the ruptures that she understood in her political intervention. Natalia Correia was a resistant antifascist. Persecuted by the dictatorship, by its civic intervention and by its literary activity, he faced the courts of fascism in the 1960s by the organization of the Antology of Portuguese Poetry Erotic and Satanic. The verse which he cast against the judges who condemned her, «O, undernourished of sleep! / Poetry is to eat», it will remain as one of the cries of the soul of cultural resistance against a regime that suppressed Portuguese culture for almost half a century. Natalia Correia's political intervention was not without contradictions. Even with his closest friends, he had moments of deep disagreements, intense discussions, angry discussions, but also reconciliations. The political positions of Natalia Correia, their attitudes—a coherent, other contradictory— sparked controversy, heated discussion, support, opposition, but never indifference. Their interventions in defense of the legalization of IVG, of the female condition, of investment in culture, or in opposition to the absence of cultural policies worthy of that name and of contesting the loss of sovereignty and cultural identity through European integration remain eloquent testimony to their action. Natália Correia was a free woman: in the Assembly of the Republic and outside it; in the tertulia that promoted in her home or in the Botequim, this space that became mythic. Natalia Correia was singular, unmistakable, in her writing, in her intervention and in her way of life and therefore so striking. For this reason, 100 years after his birth and 30 years after his physical disappearance, Natalia Correia, this Azorian, remains and will remain among us as an example of inconformism and enormous talent. Natalia lives, and her poetry «is to eat». [[PCP, PS, BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u386	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : on this date the 100th meeting is held. the anniversary of the birth of Natália Correia, more than to evoke its singular and remarkable person — something for which many others will be better prepared than I — I would like, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, to recall, yes, the values of which Natália Correia was an example. They are values that begin to be scarce in Portuguese politics and that is why it is especially important to recall on this date. Of course, Natalia Correia was an example of irreverence, which Mark Twain once said is the « safest defense of freedom». Natalia was irreverent in her personal life and in her public life; she was irreverent before and after 25 April; she was irreverent with the mediocres, with the atavics, with the prepotents, from left or right. And, for Natalia Correia, the respect was not very nice, it was even as ugly as there is. Natalia Correia was also an example in defending women's rights and their dignity. He certainly inspired many women who did not, at the time, have neither presence nor voice in the public space to take the step and to intervene, for the benefit of the country he deeply loved, from the Minor to the Azores, where he was born, and who taught us to consider as much homeland as martyrdom. Mátria, more than the title of her 1967 book of poetry and her 80's television programme, was a concept that went beyond all her work and all her intervention, either during the New State or later. Mrs. Members, Natália Correia was, above all, an example of political freedom, personal freedom, artistic freedom, artistic freedom that we would do well today not forget that it is not an aesthetic issue. It is indeed a political issue. And artistic freedom is political because it questions us about what we already think we already know; because it creates a new and broadens the borders of what is possible; because art has to risk, it cannot be afraid to err and try again; art cannot be afraid to change. And it can be trivial or brilliant, ephemeral or perennial, grotesque or her, but it makes use of freedom and creates at the same time as it does. That is why this artistic freedom to a healthy democracy is essential, which cannot be afraid of change. And that's why this feeling, this instinct that I have, that in our public life today, this free woman might not be fully understood and perhaps even canceled,... [[That's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u388	... this instinct that tells me — and I am certainly not the only one — that in our public life we need people like Natalia Correia and that it is urgent to renew the example of freedom and irreverentness that your life has left us. That would be the honor that Natalia Correia would most appreciate. How do I know? Instinct, partly. But Natália Correia also left it written in the last stanza of the Cantico do País emeriso, written more than 60 years ago. Hear: "And I call upon you, brethren, Captains of the Instinct! / Let me wave from the sea with a color canvas of the aurora/ And with the blue ink of that gesture I paint. - The horse is the emergency. The boarding is now. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from IL, PS, L and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u389	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party. I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u390	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members : To speak of Natalia Correia is to speak of rebellion, irreverence, of someone who has marked an era and has made history. Born on September 13, 1923, in the small parish of Fajã de Basso, in the municipality of Ponta Delgada, in the Azores, Natalia Correia never forgot its origins. In 1979 she was the author of the anthem of the Azores, who had its mark and its personal concoction, particularly when referring to « Freedom, Justice and Reason / they are lit in the high clarity/ flag that guides us. - Forward! Fight, fight / through the immortal past. / In the future light sows, / a triumphal people. » Natalia was this! Untiring fighter for freedom, against the New State. Woman of courage, participated in various opposition movements, coming to be sentenced to three years of suspended punishment in 1966 by the publication of the Antology of Portuguese Poetry Erotic and Satanic, which was considered, at the time, offensive of good customs. But this was Natalia Correia: irreverent, controversial, not always consensual, but with great intellectual capacity, writer, poet and also political. She was elected to this Parliament in 1980, on the PSD lists, where she saw in Francisco Sá Carneiro a great example. He quickly clashed with the conservatism of the PSD and passed the independent deputy; polemic and bold, without popes in the tongue. Voted to Parliament on the lists of the missing PRD (Democratic Renewal Party ), by the hands of Ramalho Eanes, for believing that there was reformism and progress for the country. Well, you've been wrong! The political interventions by Natalia Correia were always awaited with expectation and always surprising. I am not going to recite the famous Truca-truca poem, which Natália Correia offered to the then CDS deputy João Morgado, but yes, the poem Andar? Oh, my God! It doesn't cost me anything! ; « Andar? It doesn't cost me anything! ... / But these steps I take / They're going along a road/ That didn't even start. - You're walking at night? Oh, my God! What does it matter? ... / I'm not afraid of the night/Don't be afraid to get tired; / But on the road I'm going. / I always walk to the same door... / And I start to believe/ In the bad spell of the road: / That if it didn't start/ It wasn't finished either! - I only know that, in this fate, I'm going after what I don't know. - And I feel tired about the steps I've never taken. Do not keep on seeking. ” Natália liked the media show of height, of the crazy years of 70 and 80, of fracturing matters and causes such as abortion. We would not always agree, but we recognize your boldness. We celebrate this week the 100 years of her birth. We know that this Parliament will probably not do so in the future with another woman of causes like Maria José Nogueira Pinto. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But today we honor Natalia Correia, which was neither better nor worse; it was different. Natalia Correia was a creamy smoker. He noted: “I do not accept any discipline that is imposed upon me, without showing me the reason for it. Today, Natália Correia would continue to be this fighter, until she could not smoke in public spaces like this Assembly of the Republic. Today, Natalia Correia would light this cigarette and yell: « Freedom! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u391	You now have the floor to Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs: Today, we recall Natália Correia in the centenary of her birth. Woman, writer, poet, activist, political, feminist, but, above all, a free woman, fully and absolutely free, insubmissive, independent, avant-garde, intelligent and courageous. Evoking Natália Correia is to evoke one of the most fruitful, original and even prophetic works of Portuguese literature. But not only. It is also to remember the memory, always alive, of a revolutionary thinker, fierce opponent of the fascist and anachronistic political regime of the New State, a woman who did not accept the crickets of the repression of the dictatorship. It was therefore the most censored writer by the old regime, even being judged and condemned in the infamous plenary courts by its Antology of Portuguese Poetry Erotic and Satanic, published in 1966. His desire for freedom also made her skeptical and critical in relation to all forms of discipline, including the political party in the post-25 April. He said to accept discipline only when they showed him that it is an ethical or creative need. Thus he has always guided his performance as a Member in this House. It was against all forms of oppression, and in favour of full-lived freedom, that the work — poetic, theatrical, fictional and essayistic — of Natalia Correia insurgented itself, assuming all the dangers to which its positions expose it, especially in periods of historical turmoil to which it refers the time of its writing, which, as it foretold itself, would only in posthumous time would be truly understood. We recall today a personality whose traits can only be fully understood according to its work, and this, in turn, cannot be demarcated from the author's singular temperament. Natalia Correia is a case of symbiotic relationship between creation and creator. As a woman, I cannot but highlight the subversive, unconformed and often provocative character with which the role of women in nature and in creation, in faith, in history, in politics and in society, in private life as well as in public life. He outlined ways of equality, not by imitation of standards that he called « paternal women», but by affirming the cultural identity of women, as a way of giving a new direction to societies, which he designated as « matricumum». In the revolutionary Mátria de Natalia Correia we find the affirmation of women's freedom as a creative force. Natália Correia said that his "dream of happiness would be there was no need for poetry as a literary genre because she was already realized in life, because for the undernourished of the dream, poetry is to eat. Do not keep on seeking. ” And how we were fed by Natalia Correia of dreams, as a writer and patron of arts and culture! In his own words: "The useless tragedy of life/ It does not deserve a poem. / Only the poem deserves, sometimes the useless tragedy of life. / People fall like leaves/ And dry into the dust of the despondent/ If they don't take them with you / The poetic fury of the wind. / To justify our life / You need someone to invent it in us. / Those who have never inspired a poem/ They are the only people alone. Do not keep on seeking. ” Thank you very much, Natalia Correia. [[PS, PSD, BE and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u393	Mr Ana Catarina Mendes, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to start with a very special greeting to the April captains for having associated with this tribute, even demonstrating that Natalia always wore the word « freedom ». « Now it was on a thirteen day/ That in his biblical place of pain/My mother gave for completes/ The letters of my content». This is how Natalia Correia described her own birth on September 13, 1923. Natália da Fajã de Basso, S. Miguel, Natália dos oceanes da literature, came to Lisbon at only 11 years of age. He never lost the material that molds the islanders, explaining to us in the best way he knew how he came to the capital: « (...) not once and embarked: (...) / little by little carried/ Newly-coming from stay/ in a morbid wonder/ always reaching Lisbon / and always staying on the island». Intense, passionate and passionate, controversial, iconoclasty, provocative, inspiring, culturally superior, the many women that Natalia was and the voluptuous form as she lived - she moved to the place of one of the most remarkable personalities of the 20th century Portuguese. Enormous Natália, who joined in the Botequim da Libertade the culture and politics of the country to be built in democracy. Who does not remember your passage through this Chamber, the challenging tone of your speeches, the provocation of the back-to-backs, of the funny squares addressed to fellow Members? As Mário Tomé recalled, someone away from his political convictions: "When she entered, it was known that something new, well-informed, of poetic, of transgressor, of challenging would happen. Do not keep on seeking. ” Portrait lucid and true, no doubt. Natália was like this: someone who has never escaped from a life based on the permanent alternation of antipods, opening new paths to the next generations, by the courage to be disruptive. What we would now call 'politically incorrect', but certainly a woman of values and causes, above all, a woman of freedom and radical in her defense. Natalia always wore the word « freedom». What's the matter with us? ... I recall a most up-to-date excerpt from Natalia in this plenary in 1982: « At this time of machines, numbers and technocratics, I commit the crime of being flexible, compassionate and human. » We also know how to be daring. We know how to refuse to be « young censored souls». We also know how to honor her, making her right to her challenge, in this plenary session, in 1981: "Who cares so much for the word of parliament should encourage her not only to be said, but also to be carefully listened. Do not keep on seeking. ” The permanent defense of freedom and democracy is certainly the best way that present generations must honor their memory. Always read it. Live it again, always. And, quoting Natalia Correia: «... our dimension/ is not life, nor is death». Long live Natalia Correia! [[P.S., BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u395	Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u396	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Let us try to speak to Natalia Correia, although it is not easy, because Natalia Correia was always the only center of all attention. But let's try. She said: "I do not accept any discipline that is imposed on me, without showing me the reason for it. This is the written portrait that best defines the personality of an unusual woman, that at the age of 11 towards the Azores, where she was born, to Lisbon, saying herself, of this leap, years later: "For Lisbon they brought me/ not once and embarked/ my long matter was/ little to little carried/ Recent-coming of wonder/ always reaching Lisbon / and always staying on the island. Do not keep on seeking. ” for her 30 years, Natália Correia finds her castle and, as she herself said, I quote: "My castle is to dwell in the wind. / As a convent that is not seen outside», and there, in its adapted castle, as writes Filipa Martins, biographer of Natalia Correia, built Natalia his literary salon. Cito : « Madrugada inside lived the Eros : were invited all the spirits worshipped or complained, the celebrities of passing through the nata das natas, and spent hours in the passage of spirituality and beauty, for example, in curious and fascinating debates about what is Love. “ Natalia knew what was worth it. In the 1960s, we know and imagine almost all of us the misunderstanding and the curse by someone—for more than that, woman—that circulated in masculine media and was never inhibited from always repudiating all and any discipline imposed that I did not understand the reason. from here to politics was a step. Natália Correia, and I quote: « In the form of Militance / For the things I know/ (if they want of the spirit) / Dress me of beerra/ I went to the show». The enthusiasm, joy and hope created with April 25, as well as the political vicissitudes that followed, led to political militancy and, although critical of political parties, opted and the chosen was the PPD / PSD, having been—and this as a curiosity—author of the anthem of AD ( Democratic Alliance ). She became a Member and in this House her powerful poetry made herself feel. And here he fought for culture, for the preservation of heritage and for the defense of human rights and women's rights. In this regard, the rights of women, I cannot but recall the words of Natalia Correia that follow: "The love that men live is a work of female imagination. That is why they are the only ones who really fall in love. Do not keep on seeking. ” It cannot be forgotten the famous Botequim, a bar in Graza, in Lisbon, created by Natalia Correia, which was a meeting place of our intellectuals, where freedom, literature, poetry and politics were always intensely present. He closed after the death of Natalia Correia, having been there that spent the last night of his life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was impossible to remain indifferent to Natalia Correia. Unpredictable, indomitable, beautiful, contradictory, intelligent, cult — so was Natalia Correia. I would have done 100 years ago. We welcome your legacy, with this last sentence — Mr President, allow me, by abusing your tolerance, because I think that this, yes, defined the essence of Natalia Correia — : « O sub-foods of the dream! Poetry is to eat. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD, PS, PCP, BE, L and IL Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u397	We shall then move on to the third item of our agenda with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the services to open the quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. All of them have succeeded, so I ask for the services that close the system and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We've got quorum, so we're going to get to the deliberations. We start with the Vote Project No. 411 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by IL ) — Despite António Manso, a freedom fighter. I give the floor, for the reading of the draft vote, to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u398	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on 27 July, António Salaviza Manso, member of the Freguesia do Areeiro Assembly, in Lisbon. Despite being an elderly veteran, he never stopped being young in energy, in enthusiasm and in willingness to build a Portugal with freedom. Economist with training at the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences, a professional editor, has always been a man of strong convictions, even in the most difficult times. During the New State, he fought unreservedly in opposition to the dictatorship. He was arrested twice by the PIDE ( International Police and State Defense). He was proud that he had never given up in fighting for freedom and democracy. Shortly after 25 April, he had political participation in the UDP ( Popular Democratic Union ) and was active in the Alentejo, and later withdrew. For his civic and political curriculum, he had added reasons to dream of a Portugal free of new ties. thus subscribed in 2017 to the proposal to set up the Liberal Initiative, becoming a member in March 2020. He used to tell the younger that his militancy was done in the name of what was the supreme value for him: individual freedom. The same thing that led him to become a political prisoner. His example was contagious. Their conviction in defence of fundamental rights was an example for all and also their attachment to culture. “ Liberals have to open an important battle front also in the fields of culture and the arts, ” he said. In the Liberal Initiative he was the great promoter of a series of debates in the form of tertulia, entitled “Conversations in Barata, ” in the Barata Library in Lisbon, inviting personalities from different political views and quadrants. The theme of his last ordeal was “The Importance of History”, a lesson that has always inspired him, leading him to share generously his experience. “What brought me to the Liberal Initiative was the same thing that took me behind the grades in 1969 and 1971: my deep love for individual freedoms,” he used to say, aware of the coherence of his entire course, which deserved the admiration of so many. Thus, gathered in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic shows its deep regret over the death of Antonio Salaviza Manso and expresses the deepest condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u399	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I record the presence of relatives of citizen António Manso and transmit our condolences on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic. We moved on to the Vote Project No. 417 / XV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Regret of the death of Herlander Felga Ribeiro. For your reading, I give the floor to Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u400	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Born in the city of Lisbon on 30 May 1943, Herlander Felga Ribeiro was an Olympic swimmer who represented the flag of Portugal at the Olympic Games of Rome in 1960, and Tokyo in 1964, having reached the mark of 59, 60 seconds in the 100 m free on 6 August 1960, thus becoming the first Portuguese swimmer to lower the mark of 1 minute in this mode. Atleta of the iconic Sport Algés and Dafundo, Herlander Felga Ribeiro remained connected to swimming as coach in the Belenenses and Benfica. The pool culture of this athlete also came through his daughter, Paula Alexandre Ribeiro Vital, national water pole champion, and his grandson John Vital, also international swimmer. One of the greatest symbols of national swimming, died last August 22, at 80 years of age. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Herlander Felga Ribeiro and conveys the deepest condolences to its family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u401	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 429 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by a PSD Member ).................................................................................................................... I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel for your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u402	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « On the night of September 8, an earthquake, with magnitude of 6, 8 on the Richter scale, reached strongly the region of Marrakesh-Safim and neighboring areas in the Kingdom of Morocco, causing a dramatic scenario of destruction. The number of victims to be lamented is still uncertain, and the provisional balance sheet of dead and wounded very high, in the order of thousands. According to the Government of Morocco, the most affected province is that of Al Haouz, in particular the historic town of Moulay Brahim, south of Marrakesh, where the largest number of victims is concentrated. The September 8 earthquake is considered the largest in the recent history of Morocco, after the great earthquake of 1960, which reached the city of Agadir. In addition to the victims to be regretted, the earthquake seriously affected the Marrakesh Medina, classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ). The first reports account for the destruction of important points of the city's historical and cultural heritage, as well as several public buildings, such as schools and health centers, in the region affected by seismic avalo. Relief teams from all over the country have mobilized, since the first hour, to save survivors still under the rubble, a mission that the international community has made available to support, in an effort of solidarity that includes Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses to the authorities and people of the Kingdom of Morocco its sympathy for the victims and their total solidarity with this tragedy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u403	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then passed to the Vote Project No. 430 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by a PSD Member ).................................................................................................................... I ask Mrs Helga Correia to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u404	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Last Sunday, a violent storm hit the east of Libya, causing a heavy trail of destruction, whose scale is still to be known entirely. The number of victims is still uncertain, and to date some 7000 dead, more than 10 000 missing and tens of thousands displaced. The storm Daniel, which had affected Greece the week before, particularly devastated the coastal city of Derna, where the collapse of two dams dramatically contributed to the high number of victims as well as to their partial destruction. In addition to Derna, a substantial part of Libya's coastal area, in its eastern part, was devastated by the storm, such as Benghazi or Albayda. Rescue teams have sought to turn to the catastrophic situation, but the circulation on the ground is hampered by the obstruction, or even destruction, of the channels of communication, as well as by the widespread failures of energy and communication networks. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its sympathy to the authorities and the people of Libya for the victims of this tragedy as well as their total solidarity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u405	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes we have just voted on, I would ask everyone to follow me at the minute of silence in honor of all those we have referred to. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 413 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings by Ukraine's Independence Day. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u406	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On 24 August 2023, Ukraine celebrated 32 years as a sovereign and independent State. The proclamation of Ukraine's independence was a historic landmark of undeniable relevance to the Ukrainian people, but also to Europe and the world, by establishing a new sovereign, free and independent nation in its own territory with internationally recognized borders. Ukraine celebrated the anniversary of its independence in full struggle for freedom, sovereignty and territorial integrity, defending itself from the military aggression perpetrated by the Russian Federation. By doing so, Ukraine defends all of us to all of us who uphold the values of freedom and democracy and we want an international order based on rules and peace based on the Charter of the United Nations. Recalling the profound ties of friendship that unite the Portuguese people and the Ukrainian people, and in solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in their struggle for the inalienable right to defend their independence and territorial integrity, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes Ukraine for 32. the anniversary of independence as a free and sovereign state. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u407	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] I welcome the presence of Mrs. Ambassador of Ukraine in the gallery. [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, CH, IL, PAN, L and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u408	The Bureau was informed that the CFP Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote on this vote. Following the Vote Project No. 414 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings for the Lisbon World Youth Day 2023. I ask Mrs Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u409	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Between 1 and 6 August, Portugal welcomed the World Youth Day Lisbon 2023, which brought together hundreds of thousands of young people all over the world on an initiative that, in addition to its religious dimension, also has an obvious and healthy civic dimension, patent in the themes of peace, tolerance and inclusion, which dominated the week of the Day. in this measure, and given the complexity that an event of the magnitude of the World Youth Day represents, of course, for the society that welcomes it, for its infrastructures and systems of safety, health or mobility, it is to highlight the tranquility with which it took place, allowing the many thousands of foreigners to feel at home in our country. In addition, it is worth highlighting the remarkable contribution and example of all who, with their voluntary work, prepared the World Youth Day of 2023 for many months. It is proof of civicism and self-denial that will serve all as inspiration. The Day was also an occasion for the Apostolic Visit of His Holiness, Pope Francis, who once again proved to be a firm and inspiring leader, especially in the intransigence in the defense of social justice, within and outside the Church. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the realization and organization of the World Youth Day 2023 Lisbon, heightening the participatory and civic dimension of the many thousands of young people who were in Lisbon in celebration. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u410	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the CFP, the PAN and the L and IL and the BE.]] We then voted on draft vote No 415 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings by the centenary of Mário Cesariny. I give the floor to Mrs Palmeira Maciel for her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u411	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « The centenary of the birth of Mário Cesariny, poet, painter, considered one of the great exponents of Portuguese surrealism was celebrated last August 9. Mário Cesariny was born in Lisbon, in 1923, a city where he began his artistic training, first as a music student by Fernando Lopes-Grace at the Academy of Music Amateurs, and, in the early 1940s, at the School of Decorative Arts António Arroio. I would participate in the cultural tertulis of the cafés of Lisbon. In Café Herminus, in Café Royal, or in Café Gelo, art, literature and, with the conditionalisms of the time, politics were discussed. There they crossed names like Cruzeiro Seixas, Alexandre O'Neill, António Domingues, Pedro Oom, or Julius Pomar. in this cultural environment, neorealism predominated and then surrealism, which would indelibly mark Cesariny, especially after a trip to Paris, where André Breton met. According to Cesariny, surrealism was “an invitation to poetry, love, freedom, personal imagination”, synthesizing and giving meaning to various artistic currents (such as romance, symbolism, futurism and various libertarian traditions). On his return to Portugal, he founded the Surrealist Movement of Lisbon, where, in addition to 'Neill and Vespeira, names such as José-Augusto France and João Moniz Pereira. To move away from this group after divergences and formed in 1948 with Pedro Oom, Henrique Risks Pereira, António Maria Lisboa and Cruzeiro Seixas, The Surrealists. Cesariny was an outstanding painter, participating in various exhibitions in Portugal and abroad, but he distinguished himself, above all, in literary arts, as a surrealist poet, novelist, essayist or translator. its extensive work, stands out titles such as Visible Body, Louvor and Simplification of Álvaro de Campos, Titânia and the Burned City, or The Black Virgin. It was not a personality of consensus, quite the contrary. The rupture and conflict guided several dimensions of his life and his work. This did not prevent its artistic recognition, distinguished with several literary awards and decorated with the Great Cruz of the Order of Freedom of Portugal, awarded by the Portuguese State in 2005. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the commemoration of the centenary of the birth of Mário Cesariny, paying tribute to this major figure of Portuguese arts. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u412	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We continue with the Vote Project No. 424 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Health Commission ) — From greeting to Maria da Graça Freitas for four decades of dedication to public service in the field of health. I would ask Mrs Helga Correia to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u413	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Maria da Graça Gregório de Freitas was born in Angola on 26 August 1957. He graduated in Medicine from the University of Lisbon School of Medicine in 1980, completing the speciality of Public Health in 1988. Dedicated to the public service, over 40 years, always exclusively, performed the role of Assistant and Assistant Graduate in Public Health in Lisbon and Macau in the 1990s, passing the Assistant Senior in Public Health in 1999. In the Directorate-General of Health it will consolidate its course, coordinating cumulatively the Directorates of Health Prevention and Promotion Services, Disease Prevention and Control, Epidemiology and Health Statistics, the Public Health Emergency Support Unit and the National Vaccination Program. Also in the Directorate-General for Health, he took on functions as Deputy Director-General for 12 years and, between 2017 and 2023, as Director-General. in these functions, it mobilized its experience of decades of service in the sector to face, between 2020 and 2023, the greatest public health challenge in more than one century, being called to the front line of response to the pandemic of covid-19. Internationally, he was a member of the Board of Directors of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC ), represented Portugal in the coordinators of the National Vaccination Programmes and Technical Vaccination Committees of WHO and was a focal point for the European EWRS ( Early Warning and Response System ) alert platform, for the WHO Health Regulations and for EPIS-FWD ( Epidemic Intelligence Information System-Food and Waterborne Diseases and Zoonoses ) of ECDC. He developed academic activity, having been invited assistant to the University of Lisbon School of Medicine from 1995 to 2017, and joined the Council of the National School of Public Health of the University of Lisboa. He published scientific and opinion papers, especially in the areas of vaccination, prevention and control of communicable diseases, emergencies in public health, communication and influence of seasonality in health. In January 2023, she was thanked with the degree of Great Cross of the Order of Merit, by the President of the Republic, having still received numerous distinctions in the area of health throughout her career. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the professional journey of Maria da Graça Freitas in the field of public health and its dedication to public service over four decades, expressing its recognition for its dedication and professionalism. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u414	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L, votes against IL and the abstention from CH.]] I welcome and thank the presence of Dr. Graça Freitas among us and express, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, the gratitude for the work she has done. [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u415	Mr President, it is to announce an oral vote by Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u416	Oh no, man! It's almost 14 hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u417	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now proceed to the analysis of the Vote Project No. 427 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PAR ) — Greetings for the 50 years of the Captains' Movement, which I read : « It was signed on 9 September. the anniversary of the meeting which, symbolically, marked the date of birth of the Movement of Captains, which, about eight months later, would return Portugal to democracy, with the revolution of 25 April 1974. It was in Monte Sobral, Alcáçovas, Alentejo, that about 130 officers from the Armed Forces met clandestinely to discuss the situation of the military sector, deciding to launch a sub-signed to send to the Presidency of the Council, challenging in particular recent legislative changes made by the Government to the service and military career. This initiative, of an unquestionable symbolic and historical burden on the way to the end of the dictatorship in Portugal, had already joined the open challenge of military in service in Guinea and Angola. Thus the first step was taken for the organization of a movement — later rebaptized Movement of the Armed Forces ( MFA) — which, intensively and rapidly, would launch the complex mobilization and logistics that would lead, successfully, to the operation of the night from 24 to 25 April 1974. True to its programme, the MFA should proceed to the removal of the organs of the New State by installing a provisional government and guaranteeing civil and political rights, trade union freedom, the freedom of the parties, the extinction of special courts and the independence of the judiciary, and opening the way for the end of war, the political solution to the conflict and the independence of the old colonies. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, warmly welcomes the 50 years of the meeting of Alcáçovas, recalls the memory of what happened there and the bravery of all those who dared to dream of Portugal free of the ties of dictatorship and colonial war, placing our country on the path of democracy and development. Do not keep on seeking. ” We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence of a delegation from the Directorate of the Association 25 April. [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] I note that under the Rules of Procedure there are no oral explanations of vote on draft votes. I therefore ask the Liberal Initiative to turn it into a written statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u418	Long live the Regiment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u419	They're going to see the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u420	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo asks for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u421	Mr President, we will check the Rules of Procedure. If so, we will obviously be within the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We find it strange, however, that a written declaration of vote can be made, but it cannot be made orally, because the votes submitted in this House, such as draft resolutions and draft laws, have political significance, and our vote, especially in this case, involving a personality, an individual person, should be able to be explained in the presence of itself. We did not know this provision, which prevents an oral vote when it allows a written statement. If that is the case, as far as I can ask you to allow Mr President and the plenary, we can make an oral vote on this draft vote that we have voted on here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u422	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure are very explicit in rejecting this figure of the oral vote on votes. I'm sorry I didn't react right away. I will not put any obstacle if no one else prevents the Member of the House or the Member of Parliament from being able to justify his vote in an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. [[PS and BE protests and IL counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u423	Don't! That's opening a precedent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u424	Keep restrictions on them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-15.u425	There is opposition and, as there is opposition, we then await the written declaration of vote of the Liberal Initiative. Like the ladies. You know, there will be a Leaders Conference now at 2.30 p.m., so the agenda for the next plenary session will be distributed in writing. The NAP also reported that it will present a written declaration of vote on the draft vote No 414 / XV / 1. a, concerning the World Youth Day. Mr Rui Tavares has announced that he will also present a statement of vote. Mrs. Members are also under consideration paragraphs 62 to 154 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, concerning plenary meetings held on 2, 7, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 22 December 2022, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, 1, 2, 3, 9, 9, 10, 15, 15, 16, 16, 17, 22, 22, 23, 14, 14, 20, 20, 21, 25, 28, 15, 15, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 21, 10, 10, 11, 30, 30, and 31, 17, 18, 18, 7, 18, 14, 7, 14, 7, 14, 7, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 15, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14, 14 Diary No 155 corresponds to the meeting of the Standing Committee on 6 September 2023. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. That's how I close our work and say good-bye to everyone. Good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 50 minutes.]]
