ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities would like to open the galleries to the public, and I would ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u2	Mr President, I shall take account of the entry of draft resolutions Nos 887 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 888 / XV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 889 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 890 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The first item on our agenda is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 81 / XV — It adopts measures in the field of housing and makes several legislative amendments. This debate has its own grid, and I would like to consult the plenary on one aspect. The Rules of Procedure expressly state that, for each parliamentary group, only one Member or Member is speaking, and it is clear that he says so, the only Members do not have this problem, because they are unique. The Bureau is informed that the PSD would like to use the faculty of two interventions, since there are proposals also coming from the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u4	Isn't there anyone from the Azores? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u5	I have no objection, and, counting on anyone to have, we'll do that. [[Pause.]] No one has any objection. One way to organise the debate is to follow the order of introduction of the proposed amendments. If you agree, the first party to intervene is then the PAN, through Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Please, Mrs. Member, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we return to the government's short film about houses that don't come out of paper. The More Housing program, which we appreciate here, does not respond either to the wave of house deliveries to banks that are in progress or to families with such high incomes, which have no alternative but to live on the street, even with the inclusion of the NAP measure for the exemption of IMI (municipal property tax) for two years. This is too short a programme for the size of the needs that exist. It's just like the blanket: he pulls himself on one side, dissipates himself on the other. Therefore, and because we do not want the PS to speak alone, the NAP presents 16 amendments so that the Most Housing really reaches families and ceases to be the "less Housing". We want the support for income and the payment of the benefit out of the paper and to reach the families. We want families to be able to recover part of the increase in income and benefits this year in the reimbursement of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) next year. We also want the immeasurability of the family residence. We want more young housing, with the creation of a qualified credit scheme and exemption from IMT (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions) for young people up to 35 years old. We do not forget the student accommodation, and we propose that financial support be given to the income of students with scholarships and that the landlords have tax incentives to rent the cost affordable to students. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we live in a housing crisis in our country, but also in a climate crisis, and we propose, precisely for this reason, the creation of incentives to improve water and combat energy poverty in our homes, as well as the exemption of IMT for the acquisition of home in second acquisition, thus promoting the circularity of the real estate market, rather than the construction of new homes, which always brings with it remarkable impacts. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time we speak, Mr Finance Minister is announcing new measures. We hope that these measures will finally come out of the paper, but also that they will not be closed in the absolute majority, and that the PS Parliamentary Group bench, in the specialty, is finally available for dialogue, because those who lose with the lack of dialogue are, above all, the Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u7	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today because the Socialist Party has shown an absolute intransigence of having a real housing package for the country and for Portuguese families. We are here today because the obsession of the Socialist Party with the majority and with the compressor roll of a parliamentary dictatorship forced Mr President of the Republic to make use of his political veto to return this diploma to Parliament. We are also reminded that when Mrs Begonha said in this Parliament that this was the programme that the country needed, without doubt and without hesitation, when she told the country that this was the programme that the Portuguese would feel would bring improvements to their own life and that there was no way to catch it. Because the country has taken, the opposition has taken, and the President of the Republic has taken. If we are here today, it is not because housing is a problem for the Socialist Party. We are here today because the Socialist Party is the problem of housing in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Those who accompany us know what brought the Socialist Party to discussion in this matter: a compulsory lease that would make Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho and his comrades, compulsory leases and forced occupations of houses that would leave Álvaro Cunhal smiling for the fight that he fought in 1974 and 1975.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u9	Wash your mouth before talking about Alvaro Cunhal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u10	Wash your mouth! Who are you talking to?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u11	of the local housing are told here today, in these galleries, legitimate representatives, men and women who have abdicated their money, who have abdicated their property and their family lives to invest in the city centers, where António Costa and others told them to invest. They rehabilitated our cities, rehabilitated the buildings that today adorn our cities, and, at the end of the journey, what does the Socialist Party give them? The expiry of registrations, more taxes and an absolutely unbearable regime. Dear Colleagues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u12	Colleagues? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u13	... this is not invented. This is the greatest act of gratitude for the democratic history in Portugal! It is the greatest act of ingratitude in democratic history. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Local accommodation is not responsible for the dramas of Portuguese housing. It may be the taxes released by PSD and PS, it may be the lack of construction of the last decade, it may be the lack of legal instruments of regulation and regulation, but never those men and women who gave everything they had to allow Portugal and its historic centers to be today unrecognible inhabited sites. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because of the absolute intransigence of the Socialist Party in recognizing that Portugal cannot even be a Communist country, that we want an open economy and we want a free economy, that families are entitled to their property and that Portuguese are entitled to their predictability. The usual revenue, with more taxes, more expropriation, more attacks on the family, property and investment, may have worked in Venezuela, but in Portugal, it will never work, and we will not allow it in the city of Lisbon and the rest of the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u14	For the sake of property!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u15	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the time we are here, our compatriots move from their homes to live in shops in the city of Lisbon, in the city of Porto, in the city of Beja, in the city of Faro, in the city of Funchal and in many others, that we could continue to list. Every day, new families see their home in trouble or see the banks, sagazes, always, in collection, take away everything they have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u16	He looks like a communist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u17	The State requiring the Portuguese to pay the taxes they charge without 1 minute's delay is the same State that takes the house away from them if they do not pay a single benefit. The State that tells them 'pay taxes and do not fail' is the same State that has not offered them, eight years ago, a single decent housing solution. When we arrive today at the end of the day, we will know one thing: we will know that if there is someone responsible for the collapse of housing in Portugal, because so many families fail to pay their home, it is not called Left Block, PCP, PSD, Liberal Initiative or Arrival. The face of failure, the face of failure is António Costa and the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, I shall finish, because my time is just over too. Lisbon is today the most expensive city in Europe to rent a house. Repeat : Lisbon is today the most expensive city in Europe to rent a house.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u18	Will you go there...?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u19	Lisbon takes place in Porto, Funchal, Faro and so many others. Mr. President and Mr. Members, eight years ago the Socialist Party has ruled this country. The prices have been rising for eight years. For eight years, families have been running out of money to pay for their home. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been watching the failure for eight years. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had the worst government in our history for eight years. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u20	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bank benefits were 50 % more expensive in the last year. Income from new contracts rose almost 30 % in Lisbon and 30 % in Porto. An average income in Lisbon costs more than twice the national minimum wage. Twice the national minimum wage does not pay an average income in Lisbon. It costs more than once and a half the national minimum wage an average income in port. There are students dropping out of high school. There are people being cleared from their homes. There are people desperate because they have nowhere to live, where to plan their lives, where to have children. And the programme presented by the Government does not solve any of these problems. The Socialist Party lives in another world. He lives in a world where the crisis is not this. This is not the housing crisis we live in. He lives running after damage. And all you did by making ads that did not carry out was to make the problem of housing in Portugal worse and increase the price of income. There's nothing you can say on the right. The right only wants to know about the profit of the business and how it uses small owners to protect the profit profit from the housing crisis, from the real estate business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u22	Oh! Daddy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u23	There are three measures that could change the housing crisis. There are three measures that could save the lives of people who search for a house and do not have: roofs to rent, according to the location and typology of the property;... [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] ... obliging banks to lower their benefits, and that this is done on account of their profits — EUR 2 billion in the first half of this year — and prohibiting the sale of houses to non-residents. And it's not worth pretending to be angry. They stay on the right and the PS are very indignant about this proposal because it affects the richest. Now, 95 % more is how much non-residents pay for houses, raising the price of all houses in the country. But they don't want to know about the immigrants who live in the car trunks because they can't have a house, they live in unconditional buildings, in belliches, under hot bed arrangements, because they can't have a house. That doesn't bother them. [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] The government, with this proposal, insists on the mistake. It rejects the three proposals that could solve the problem of housing in Portugal and believes that it does not have to account for anyone because it is sufficient for itself, in its absolute majority. Lobby and real estate speculation may have a voice in this Assembly of the Republic, from right to PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u24	And there to the PCP too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u25	... may even have a majority in this House of the Republic and prevent measures which could lower prices from being adopted, but on the streets we know that it is the voice of the people who command. And the voice of the people, of the people who know what the housing crisis is and who know the measures that could solve the housing crisis, will make themselves heard. The voice of the people will be heard on September 30, in a demonstration by the housing of those who want to solve the problems of the country and knows that, in this country, the dignified life, the ability to develop ourselves, the future depends today on something: the right to housing, and that is what we have to worry about ensuring. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u26	We'll be there on the 30th!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u27	Are you going there? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u28	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u29	Looks like they want to go to the same demonstration!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u30	I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I chose to talk about this because I wanted to speak to the government and the Minister of Housing. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from CH Member André Ventura and from IL Mr Rui Rocha.]] But its absence is another sign of disrespect for this government by this Parliament, the Portuguese and the veto of the President of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u32	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what a bad example we are setting, what a bad example this socialism is setting. The Most Housing will be in everyone's memory for the worst reasons. It has caused social alarm and has not yet entered into force, and the negative effects are already immense, such as rising income values or reducing construction. In port alone, for example, fewer than 1000 fires were built and there was an investment reduction of 220 million. Real estate investment fell in a single month in August 12, 5 % and in the first half of the year 57 %. And the Most Inhabitation has not yet come into force! What a terrible example, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We have a government that does not fulfill promises, such as that which was made in 2015 to build 7500 accessible housing houses. So far, no house has been built. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u33	As for the promise of response to 26 000 families up to 2026, today the number has risen to 88 000 families in unworthy condition. The gentlemen. Aren't you gentlemen ashamed? Are you not ashamed of a government that is'proudly alone'? Civil society, lords, tenants, political parties, President of the Republic, investors, companies, are all against the government and against this socialism. [[PSD applause.]] This is a government that has ignored the veto of Mr. President of the Republic as well as the warnings and concerns that it conveys. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] They are a government and a parliamentary majority closed to dialogue, who do not want to hear or make commitments to the country. The PSD presented and re-presented more than 50 measures for housing — structural, coherent measures, without forced lease, without attacks on local housing, without limitations of income. It's possible, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u34	We have presented reformist, coherent measures based on five fundamental axes: supply shock, with more construction, rehabilitation and more rental houses; first house support program for young people; temporary fixation of credit benefits; income subsidies; and public encouragement to new housing models. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, it is VV. Ex. I'll address these last words, saying they're still going in time. They are still in time to amend all the mistakes and to show the country that, above all, the interest of the Portuguese speaks higher, higher than an incomprehensible theimosia of the Socialist Party Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u35	You now have the floor, for the rest of the PSD, Mrs Patrícia Dantas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u36	Mr President, I reaffirm: the More Housing package, instead of adding up, only subtract. In the face of the unanimous challenge, only the autism of the Socialist Party to insist on a program that does not solve the problem of housing in Portugal. It does not solve this because since the government in 2015 the PS has done little more than PowerPoint "fabulous" presentations and promises without fulfillments. It does not solve it and, under pressure from the chaos installed, it continues to promise: it promises houses to young people, students, teachers and displaced public servants — the same houses! It does not resolve this because it despises the offer side and compromises, even before the diploma enters into force, the offer of accommodation available at that time. It does not solve the problem and attacks the local housing market, the livelihood of 55 000 families. Not only does it prevent its expansion as additionally tax its income. Couldn't the country have the highest tax burden ever and more than 4300 fees and taxis? It does not solve the problem on the continent and, with total disrespect for the autonomy and political status of the autonomous regions, the PS imposes the taxation of local housing and does not allow a transitional regime for residence permits for investment to be implemented. This notwithstanding the public and vehement disagreement of the regional governments led by the PSD. Two amendments were tabled to correct this situation. We will see what the Socialist Party's position is in tomorrow's vote. We'll see if the PS is, or not, with Madeira. [[PSD applause.]] Social Democrats, with the motto « We Are Madeira » and with concrete results, including in housing, present themselves to the electorate on the 24th day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u37	Ui! Funchal is a paradise of habitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u38	What about the Wildlings? What about the Desserts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u40	... will be two aspects to be considered on the day of the regional elections next Sunday. Let's wait easy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u41	To speak on the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that there is no greater example of political cowardice than we see here today, with the absence of the government of your bench, because you did not have the courage to face the tens of local housing families who are here today to see what will be discussed. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today it is fashionable to write books by the Prime Ministers about the time they were rulers. If António Costa, one day, write some book about this period in which Portugal governs, this book can only have a title: The art of breaking up what was left of the housing market. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u43	It's too long!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u44	But let's get started, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in principle, by the promises of Antonio Costa. Let's go to 2017: Antonio Costa's first promise — and listen well, because it's worth seeing what was promised and what was then executed — was to invest EUR 1400 million to build 7500 accessible use houses. Concretized until today, when we're talking, we have the extraordinary number of zero dwellings. The second example is 2018 : António Costa, about the New Housing Policy Generation package, promised to end until the 25th of April we will celebrate next year with all housing shortages in Portugal. There are five months left for April 25, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know what's going to happen. The third example is also 2018 : the government said that between 2019 and 2022 12 000 new beds would be made available in university homes. We are in 2023, we have already completed the year of 2022 and at that time the number of beds that existed was exactly the same as 2018. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be the beds they will make available in Anadia that will change this situation. [[Applause from the IL.]] But António Costa did not stay for the promises, António Costa also approved, and he wants to approve now again, the More Housing package. And with this it has already been able, even before the entry into force of this package, to seriously disturb the solutions that exist on the market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u45	Market solutions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u46	Ah, so the market...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u47	... either in terms of rent or in terms of construction of new building. So we have an extraordinary case, which is: even before a legislative package comes into force, the solutions that exist for people, who were already difficult, are even more disturbed. That is why the Liberal Initiative presented, 15 days ago, the Habitat programme now. I will identify four or five measures of this programme, starting with the reduction of VAT (value added tax) of construction, because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to have a consistent speech. If housing is an essential asset, taxes cannot be luxurious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u48	All right! [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u49	The second measure is the defrosting of incomes, because it is necessary to return confidence to the market and there is a transition mechanism that ensures that those who do not have the conditions to support incomes have a support from the State. But it is the State that must make social support, that does not belong to those who have property!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u51	The third measure is to eliminate the IMT in the purchase of permanent own housing. This is because the State, whether local or national, is emboldening huge quantities while the Portuguese go through enormous difficulties in terms of housing. This is the difference between António Costa and the Liberal Initiative: on the one hand, wrong measures, on the other, certain measures; on the one hand, promises that have never been fulfilled over eight years of governance, on the other, in 15 days, we present the Habitat Now programme and the measures are already available to the Members. Members vote in favour and thus improve the situation of the housing market in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u52	It is not to change the market situation, it is to change the situation of people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u53	To speak by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u54	The ideal is to return to cooperatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the Government presented this proposal, baptized by More Habitat, the CFP has expressed its disagreement with disastrous political options and with the interests it has once again come to favour. However, our reasons for this disagreement and for the vote against the CFP vis-à-vis this proposal from the Government are not the same reasons that led to the veto of the President of the Republic. The real problem is that the More Housing decree is globally conceived as an instrument for promoting real and financial speculation, and continues to deny the answer that is imposed on crucial issues, such as costs and the stability of renting, the unbearable size of credit benefits to housing and the promotion of public housing. The CFP takes part in this discussion on the Most Housing with its proposals, which defend millions of families confronted with gross income increases and in the provision of housing credit. The PCP proposals are very clear: to stop income increases in new contracts and existing contracts; to open the renegotiation of housing credits by placing the bank's profits to pay the exorbitant increase in interest rates; to restore stability to tenants in lease contracts and to end the infamous "poster shop", now masked from the landlord's and landlord's counter; to effectively promote public housing, mobilising public ownership and preventing the alienation of public property that can serve as a guarantee of the right to housing; and to create a special regime for suspending waste in the event of proven economic failure of the household. We also propose the elimination of more tax benefits to large owners...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u56	Like the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u57	... and speculators, such as real estate funds; the end of the tax system of privilege which is the regime of unusual residents and measures aimed at accelerating even more the evictions of families who have no alternative. In view of the convergence between PS, PSD, Arrival and Liberal Initiative in the rejection of the PCP proposals and in support of the PS Government's right-wing policy options, it has already been shown that the solution is not repeating the past mispolicies. And this appearance of those who want to appear in the photograph as if they were sitting on the wall saying that it is neither left nor right do not disguise the class option that they continue to assume by economic power and by great interests. [[PCP applause.]] The solution lies in the answers that have to be given, in the concrete measures that defend the people, who defend all those who are facing the threat of homelessness, or who are now homeless. That is the struggle, the demand that is raised in the voice of thousands and thousands of people going out on the streets and going out on the streets on the next day 30, to say 'no' to these policies and to demand that there be houses to live. There we will be, and from here we welcome this mobilization and that struggle that, yes, will have to build the change for a better future. from here we reaffirm the commitment of the CFP to continue the intervention and the fight for the guarantee of the right to housing, because housing must indeed be a right rather than a commodity. What is urgently guaranteed are houses to live and not to speculate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u58	Let's build buildings in the Quinta da Atalaia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u59	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u60	Mr. President, Caras e Caros Collegas : Anyone who has heard the right during these months talking about housing would say that today we would have to be here discussing a shipment to the Constitutional Court, because apparently it was impossible to say that property had a social function or it was impossible to impose limits on the market. But that is not what we are discussing here, we are discussing a political veto, which has not been for the Constitutional Court, in which the most concrete thing Mr. President of the Republic tells us is that the Government's proposals are far from the scale of the problem we are experiencing. On the other hand, having listened to what the PS and the government have said in recent months, it gives the feeling that it is only necessary to go and see, to do, to start doing, when the worst tsunami of the housing crisis is still in front of us. Even today, the Government announces proposals to mitigate the effect of rising interest on the real estate benefits of Portuguese families, when, a year ago, the Free had already submitted proposals so that people could move from variable rate to fixed rate; these proposals which the PS first approved, then lead, then said that it would present equal and then did not present, to come now, a year later, with proposals that limit themselves to 'pulse with the belly' the problem and put people always 'paying palm' to the banks, either later or later. It is appropriate to ask the PS and the government if they were here: « Do you think that 95 % of the Portuguese were at variable rates because they wanted it? Why was it a phenomenon of nature? Or was it because the bank led them to be in dependence today? Is it not, therefore, to make the bank pay for what it has done only in this euro area country, when in all others people pay more fixed rates and are more covered by interest increases? The government could have done this and could still do a lot today. by adopting the measures proposed in the Book, we can make available the state heritage that already exists for student residences. If 3000, 4000, 5000 students, when they arrive in a city, have their housing problem solved, it is less pressure on the housing market for families. But this housing market is needed. And there, dear Mr Rui Rocha, the problem is not to make the market run anymore, the problem is to protect people and say that those who build must have 30 % non speculative housing. The problem is not Lisbon, or Porto, or Braga, or Funchal are attractive. That's a solution and it's not the problem. The problem is that Vienna is attractive, Amsterdam is attractive and, in one of these cities, there is 60 % public housing, in the other there is 30 % public housing and in Portugal we have no 2 % public housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u61	Time! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u62	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u63	Good luck with that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u64	For this reason, a mission is needed: not only housing, but better housing, in which the State exercises its right of preference, in which the State helps people to buy homes and in exchange have lease and property transmission regimes...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u65	Time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u66	...that they are not speculative and that they protect the people who live here, work, study and need a house to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u67	Allow me, Mr President, to remind you that you have tripled your speaking time, which challenges even the most tolerant of the Presidents.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u68	Next time he does the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u69	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u70	20 seconds more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u71	20 more seconds? Oh, my God! Two more minutes! When Mr. President says it's to finish, it's to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u72	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor. [[At this moment, elements of the public present in the galleries rose and began to say, repeatedly, the phrase: «House to live!». The gentlemen. Authorities have to intervene, evacuate the gallery. Continuation of demonstrations of public protest in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u73	Just scratchers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u74	Mr Hugo Carvalho, you may begin your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can differ in the solutions proposed, we can differ in the urgency or priority we give to whom we want to defend. We can have different political and ideological convictions — and we must — but we must have the conviction that, in a mature democracy, political coexistence between the sovereign bodies is not a weapon of shooting or political attack. The re-evaluation of a decree of the Assembly of the Republic and its confirmation in nothing violates the legitimacy of the actions of the various political actors and, above all, they are not, nor can they ever be, a barometer that defines what is right and what is wrong. The legitimacy of Mr Exa, Mr President of the Republic, in vetoing the diploma — which obviously leads us to reflection — is exactly like the will of those who believe in this plenary that this diploma is fundamental to improving the lives of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The House to Live motto could no longer fit in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u76	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u77	It's not about arrogance, as it has been said. It's not about sobriety, as said here. This is not a lack of dialogue, as has been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u78	It's really cowardice! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u79	It is institutional and political respect for the most basic democratic principles. A mature democracy, which respects the path of dialogue, debate, hearing and re-adapting of a diploma that has been improved over the months and which we now have no doubt to confirm.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u81	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group we are well aware of the responsibility placed on us in this Parliamentary reassessment. There are clear differences between those who, in this debate, belong to the parliamentary group that supports the political action of the Government, can not only take refuge in words, but in actions, in particular the action to defend a collective interest, a far superior: overcome the barriers that hinder access to housing. That means making choices that others don't have to do. It means making options in local housing, foreign investment, the real estate market, the liberating rates, the tax benefits. Others may, perhaps, choose easier paths. In the morning, they say they are concerned about the costs of income for families, but in the evening they are already the biggest defenders of local housing, and in the evening "Carmo and Trinity fall" for real estate investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the following day, no one heard them talk about renters and, at the same time, it is called to the party headquarters to "corporate interests", they make election promises to tear garments and finally to tune up the bricks for television programs. This was the right-hand approach to this issue. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] The « attack on private property », the « death of local housing », the « end of foreign investment », is called as if a discussion of this magnitude could be reduced to a dimension of black and white. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Mr Rui Rocha's speech recently was clear on this. It defends the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of the construction to 6 %, either for real estate speculation or for luxury housing or real estate business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u82	Isn't that an essential asset? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u83	But what Mr Rui Rocha does not say is that More Housing reduces VAT to 6 %. Only it does it for anyone who wants to build at controlled costs, for anyone who wants to put the house at affordable prices, that people can pay. For these, yes, we have lowered the VAT of construction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why this discussion is not black and white, it is done with weight, respect and seriousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u84	You're doing great!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u85	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the wink of the eye, which can be interesting to capture discontent, may even be useful to give proof of life to an opposition. But it is indeed and manifestly little to create a credible alternative to the More Habitat legislative package, which the Socialist Party and the Government have presented here. We will therefore confirm the vote on this diploma, not by political whim,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u86	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u87	...but by conviction. We do so with democratic respect for the ideas, for the debate, for the broad public discussion this dossier had. We do so because this process has resulted in a great effort of balance between the needs to ensure housing for all and the healthy coexistence of economic activity, which is also fundamental for our country. We do so because this package gives territorial freedom so that there are different solutions to different problems, which affect differently the different municipalities of our country. We do so because this legislative package places at the disposal of the municipalities more instruments to take correct measures in their territories. And we do so because this package dishonors the gentlemen and relieves them of the responsibilities that we assume it must be the State to ensure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we do so because we do not resign ourselves to the fact that the debate on access to housing becomes a kind of board game, like Monopoly, which many must remember to have played in children. in this unequal game, we already know that, after the houses are distributed and the investment is on the side of just a few, there are others who just walk a few more laps for their luck. Now, a state cannot leave anyone abandoned for its own sake, it costs anyone at all. It's to do this job that we're here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u88	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, which consists of the debate with the participation of the Government on the state of the Union, as provided for in the Law on Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ). As one of the debates under the new rules, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw the attention of all to the following: the debate begins with an intervention by the Government, in the case of the Secretary of State for European Affairs. Then the parties are followed, in order of representativeness. Each party manages its time to understand, in one or more interventions, and the Government responds individually at the end of each party's interventions. Let us then start the debate, with the initial intervention of the Secretary of State for European Affairs, Tiago Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this European Parliament, we have faced a pandemic and we have been able to come out of it stronger, more united, with joint concrete responses and actions, which have saved lives and prevented a prolonged economic catastrophe. Also in this European legislature we saw war and crimes against humanity return to European soil, inflicting deep suffering on the Ukrainian people, with direct impact on our lives. Still in this European Parliament, and beyond the need to respond to unforeseen phenomena, we have been implementing a structural transformation in Europe, training us for the dual green and digital transition in progress. And we relaunched the debate on enlargement and the necessary reform of the functioning of the Union. in this Parliament, in short, we live challenging times, which require a continuous commitment to the well-being of our citizens and the future of Europe. the speech on the state of the Union, delivered by the President of the European Commission last week, allow me to highlight some essential components. I begin with the greatest challenge of our lives, the one that has been present in this legislature and will certainly be in many more, with already visible consequences and felt by all of us, in all corners of Europe: the climate crisis, the existential threat that cannot be ignored. The European Union is firmly committed to leading the world in combating climate change. To achieve this desire, we are investing massively in clean energy sources and in decarbonization processes, particularly through Recovery and Resilience Plans. Renewable energy is already a very significant percentage of our energy mix, which has been essential not only to promote greater sustainability, but also, in Portugal and especially in the past year, to ensure some stability in electricity prices. In the environmental field, we also welcome the announcement of an initiative in the area of water resilience, in line with our proposal to launch a Rewater EU programme, a priority signalled by Portugal and which today deserves strong European attention. in an era marked by extreme climate events, increasingly frequent and severe, it is essential to ensure that our communities are prepared to meet the challenges of water scarcity and floods. This action must continue with an investment in modernising our agricultural sector. The President of the Commission announced that he will initiate a strategic dialogue on the future of agriculture in the European Union with a view to ensuring reconciliation between agricultural activity and nature protection. We could not agree more and that is something we are also trying to do at national level, in conjunction with the sector. in another area, with benefits for both agriculture and other economic sectors, the European Commission wants, as Portugal has a lawyer, to strengthen trade partnerships with the rest of the world. It is ambitious to conclude free trade agreements with Australia, Mexico, and Mercosur ( Southern Common Market ) by the end of the year, seeking further progress in negotiations with Indonesia and India, the latter, a negotiation process initiated during the Portuguese Presidency of the Council. in an increasingly complex global environment, the conclusion of fair and balanced trade agreements is essential for the prosperity of Europe and our partners, boosting the European economy and reinforcing our role as a global actor. We have always argued that these trade negotiations not only benefit the large economic groups but also small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ). SMEs are the driving force behind our economy and are responsible for a significant number of jobs, so we follow the European Commission's intention to simplify administrative procedures, eliminate charges and cost of context and reduce bureaucracy, providing opportunities for SMEs to grow and innovate in European soil. And one of the challenges that is obviously also facing our economic fabric today is the need for labour. As the President of the European Commission said, the lack of qualified human resources is identified as a problem for 74% of SMEs in Europe, and labour shortages undermine our capacity for innovation, growth and prosperity. In view of this reality, we subscribe to the words of the President of the Commission, when he refers to the need for immigrants in our society and we are going to manage orderly and regular migrations. We need a migration policy that, firstly, supports the countries of origin in creating conditions of development, peace, security and respect for human rights, adaptation to climate conditions, conditions that reduce emigrant pressure. Secondly, we need work with the transit countries so that migration flows are manageable, and responsible action in the management of our borders, strengthening prevention and combating trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u91	And thirdly, we need the creation of legal immigration channels, because this is the only effective way to fight the action — that is, scandalously illegal — of those who exploit the vulnerability of others and benefit from the smuggling of people, throwing them into the sea at risk of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A continent that has the demographic dynamics that Europe has, which has the economic growth effort that Europe has to do, is a continent that has to realize that immigration is not a problem, but it is a need and an opportunity to sustain our economic development and our social model. Then there is the dimension of asylum, in an area of values, democracy and respect for human rights such as Europe, which must welcome all those who are persecuted, oppressed or subjected to violence and who lack international protection, as we have done at European and Portugal level, with the temporary protection regime applied for the first time to welcome and protect those who have fled the war in Ukraine. in this and other ways, we will continue to support Ukraine, no matter what it costs, it lasts as long as it lasts. That is a European commitment that we do not abdicate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also support Ukraine, Moldova and the countries of the Western Balkans in their reforms to join our joint project. At the same time, as Portugal has always defended and as the President of the European Commission has acknowledged, we must start working on the internal reforms needed today so that the European Union can welcome new Member States and function effectively with more than three dozen countries. This is a challenge that is part of the current state of the Union, but which is projected for the future: the challenge of starting to build a larger, more diversified Europe, but at the same time stronger and always true to its values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u92	We now begin the round of questions put by the political parties. In the time reserved for PS, she begins by speaking to Mrs Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u93	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The balance sheet we make of the action of the European institutions is generally positive, but Mr von der Leyen's speech on the state of the Union has fallen short of expectations. It has failed him the strength, determination and courage with which he mobilized European citizens in 2020. It is fair to recognize that the European institutions have faced, with no hesitation or hesitation, the huge challenge that the pandemic has been. There was union and there was solidarity, not to leave anyone behind. Europe has been well at condemning a war on European soil, a war that violates the basic principles of international law and attacks human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u95	However, when one more electoral cycle approached, it was expected to be more audacity and ambition, because there is more life than war and urgent needs because of it. The effects of pandemic and war are likely to prolong. We don't know how long it will be. We know, however, that exceptional situations require new measures, as the Portuguese Government has done — an example to follow. Not by chance, fortunately, the speech of the President of the European Commission spreads many of the priorities which Portugal has been pointing out, as the Secretary of State said: of course, the centrality conferred on small and medium-sized enterprises and the strengthening of their competitiveness. This sector also faces new challenges, common to the entire population: the challenges of double green and digital transition. Indeed, the energy crisis exists, the climate crisis exists — they are not fiction — and the fight against climate change must be a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if the idea of moving into a new era seems inspiring, one cannot ignore existing asymmetries. The alert comes from the United Nations. The digital world is working with many benefits, but not equally for everyone. The pandemic crisis has confirmed that digital technologies are revolutionizing the world. Also, this Portuguese Government has made a huge investment to equip all school-age children with the appropriate tools to combat digital inequality. The effects of this war on the European economy are high. Families are the main victims. It is worth remembering that the increase in energy prices has led to an inflationary spiral that the European Central Bank has been fighting with huge increases in interest rates, with devastating consequences on the lives of families. contrary to what has happened in the recent past with the right-wing government, today in Portugal we have a government that places people at the centre of their political action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u96	It was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u97	This is an example of the measures to support families, even today approved by the Council of Ministers, to alleviate the increase in benefits caused by the rise in interest rates: enlargement and bonus of housing credit and fixed rate for two years, to ensure the stability of the value of benefits. Mr Secretary of State, the problem of housing has acquired a European scale. It is therefore the duty of the European Union to find innovative formulas to respond to the legitimate desire of young people to have access to decent housing. This is something that I hope our Government will continue to debate within the European Union. I conclude by asking whether the Portuguese Government will continue to defend the establishment of a permanent mechanism for responding to crises and the implementation of new forms of the Union's own resource pooling, as defended in the joint article of Portugal, France and Germany. The pandemic that has recently come down on the world has made it very visible that these issues cannot get out of the agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u98	Even in the time reserved for the Socialist Party, Mr Rui Lage now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister : The speech on the state of the Union was an end-of-the-cycle speech and therefore was a balance sheet speech, which explains some of the omissions already mentioned here, and also explains some of the messages sent by Mrs von der Leyen to her own political family, the PPE ( European People's Party ). It is because the PPE has been testing alternative majority with the worst European right, the faction of the European right that receives xenophobic forces, climate change negationists and similar specimens for these days.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u100	You expelled members of the militia, it wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u101	There is another cycle that seems to be coming to an end in the European project. The PPE is testing the viability of a majority alternative to that which, in recent decades, brought together the moderate forces of Europe and which was responsible for the main progress of the European project — indeed, listed extensively in Mr von der Leyen's speech. The PPE has been radicalizing its positions for months and stepping into the conservative and far-right fields and wooing in particular the European Conservatives and Reformists, which welcomes parties such as the Italian Brothers, Mr Meloni, the Law and Justice Party, Poland, and Vox, from our neighbouring Spain. It is no longer a secret for anyone: the PPE is actively seeking to weaken the European Ecological Pact. Mrs von der Leyen knows that and she herself is facing her political family, for those who want to read in between. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] We could be tempted to think that this is only part of the tensions of pre-election polarization, typical of these phases, but then we look at the various governmental coalitions by this outside Europe and we see the countries where parties from the PPE family and the PSD agree with extreme-right parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u102	Oh, what a scare!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u103	...and we realize it's not just a bluff anymore. I do not know whether Mrs von der Leyen's remarks to her own political family are going to 'fall into a broken bag' or be heard, but I sincerely hope—and I think that Mrs von der Leyen also looks forward to — that the PPE, in view of the new alliances she is seeking, does not embark on the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u104	You have to study the European Parliament! You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u105	...in an adventure with the descendants of those who, just over 70 years ago, rushed Europe into the abyss. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u106	This is the descendant of Stalin! The offspring of Stalin speaking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u107	To answer that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I now call on the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Edite Estrela, with regard to the speech of the President of the European Commission, I believe that it was a speech with the right priorities, indeed, as Mr Rui Lage has just mentioned - and I will go there - but, in fact, as has already been said, it was an end-of-command speech and, therefore, with little novelty. We would like to have seen more ambition in this speech, although we understand that the stage at which we find ourselves makes it difficult to launch new initiatives. But there is a work for all of us to sow, to launch seed for debates that, even if they do not come true in this European legislature, can make their way into the future. That was the case in the letter that the Prime Minister had the opportunity to send to the President of the European Commission, in anticipation of the statement of the state of the Union and the preparation of the Commission's work programme for the coming year, in which he rightly listed some measures which would be more feasible in the short term, finally, measures that have already been discussed but have not yet moved forward; and others that are indeed clues to the future. Among the measures that were most pressing and that we would like to have seen in the speech — but unfortunately they are not there and have not yet moved forward — are some that you have mentioned. We have long mentioned the need for the European Union to provide a permanent instrument or mechanism for responding to crises. We have seen how the economic crises, for various reasons, happen and how the European Union, despite everything, has found answers, some better and others worse — in the past, worse; fortunately, after the pandemic, better — to react to these crises, but always ad hoc instruments formulated to respond to each crisis, when it would be preferable for the European Union's economic governance arsenal to have a permanent instrument that could be activated, when necessary, to better respond to these crises. There is also a very important dimension which is about to be completed in our Banking Union: the third pillar, of deposit insurance, in which unfortunately it has not yet been possible to move forward. There is another area in which we must move forward, which is the assumption that more European investment is needed in projects of common European interest, where there is added value of intervention at European level, if the European Union joins resources to invest in climate change, in the digital transition or in strengthening its security and defence, in the major priorities that are under way. Of course, we have synergies of this work in common and therefore more European investment in key areas is necessary, but to finance it we also need more European resources, more European Union own resources, and that is something we have been asking for and we would like to see progress. Another area that we would like you to have had a stronger reference in speech is related to the dimension of the social pillar. This is a very expensive area for Portugal, as it is known, which was a key theme of our Presidency in 2021, and we are now organizing a high-level event in Porto, to maintain the social agenda and the European pillar of social rights as a strong theme in the priorities of the European Union. It is true that the President of the European Commission announced a summit with the social partners to be held next year, in the first half of the year, during the Belgian presidency; this is an important factor, but we would like to have seen a stronger commitment to the European Union's social agenda and the European social model, which is truly one of the virtues and forces of the European project. The honourable Member has also pointed out that, indeed, several initiatives, suggestions and priorities which the Portuguese Government has suggested to the European Commission have included in the speech and appear in the letter of intent, however disclosed by the European Commission, as a recognition that they are indeed priorities at European level: the importance given to SMEs and the strengthening of their competitiveness, as well as well as the need to re-qualify and convert workers to revenge in the economy of the future, digital transition and ecological transition. These transitions must be fair and leave no one behind, but to that end our workforce in those sectors that will be overcome by these transitions can be converted and can take advantage of the green and qualified jobs of the future. It is a structural transformation of our economy and our society that is in progress and the European Union must of course help. He then referred to the issue of housing, which is essentially a matter of national competence, but is a cross-cutting problem across Europe. Today, all my colleagues, my counterparts in the other Member States, are talking to me about this. It is an essential problem in virtually all major European cities and therefore makes sense — as we have pointed out in the letter — that the European Union is studying this problem, from the outset, and is promoting instruments to address this problem. This is, above all, a problem for young people, as the President of the European Commission himself acknowledged, at the beginning of his speech, and it is therefore essential that the European Union also has mechanisms to be able to respond to this need for Europeans, particularly young people. Mr Rui Lage said that the President of the Commission has the right priorities, without giving in particular to forces or visions which, in my view, are detrimental to the future of the European project. Indeed, compromise, commitment to the ecological transition, the fight against climate change, this green revolution which is under way and which has to be maintained, with the need for respect for nature—of course, safeguarding economic activities, but protecting and safeguarding natural capital and our planet—and also the idea that we must be just, supportive and humanist in terms of immigration and that we need regular channels and immigration insurance, because, in fact, we can only fight the scourges that we systematically see in the Mediterranean sea, that is true priorities, where there are no concessions. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have progressively seen a slip and approach to populist, nationalist views, and these concessions are worrying. They are worrying, as we approach European elections, and it is good to see that the European Commission is in the right place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u109	We now spend time with the PSD, starting with Mr Ricardo Sousa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u110	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Let me begin by expressing my perplexity at the position expressed by Mr Rui Lage, because, as everything indicates, Chancellor Scholz, President Sánchez and even Dr. António Costa themselves are available to support a remandature of Mrs Ursula von der Leyen. [[PSD applause.]] So the question that remains is this: will Dr. António Costa be done with the extreme right? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u111	That's the question you're asking... [[PSD applause.]] ...and that, perhaps, would explain some manifestations we've seen here. The President of the Commission gave her last term of office on the state of the Union last week, and of course it was a balance sheet speech. In 2019, when the mandate of this Commission began, Europe was far from imagining what it would expect: a pandemic, which in its size is only comparable to what happened a century ago, and a military conflict which has not preceded since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u113	The pandemic and especially the war in this period have posed challenges to European cohesion, but it was still possible to strengthen cooperation, deepen integration and, much more importantly, the Union has been able to speak with one voice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u115	And this ability to respond to problems and challenges of this magnitude was also due to the President of the European Commission. [[PSD applause.]] The political clarity of the positions in this context has had a very important role. One of the most important messages of the speech of the state of the Union last week was that it was time to understand that enlargement is also a project of peace, security and prosperity for Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u117	Whereas all Community institutions agree that Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia and the six countries of the Western Balkans must belong to the Union, the time has come to meet that expectation. The President stressed, however, that the integration of these new Member States is a process based on merit and on the fulfilment of very demanding criteria, but—and this is the really important part—has put aside the idea of having to wait for a possible revision of the treaties to be implemented, based on the argument that the revision of the treaties can plunge Europe into an impasse, because there are differences on the way forward and because some national referendums weigh on the ratification process.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u119	It is therefore important to know the position of the Government. We know that the Prime Minister's position is to demand a prior reform of the institutions, and it is appropriate to say that in terms of enlargement, the Prime Minister is far from being an 'optimist irritant'. It is also said that the most decisive contribution to clarifying the Portuguese position was made by Mr President of the Republic at his visit to Kiev. Mr President of the Republic's statements have been a decisive step forward in supporting enlargement and from a political point of view have been stronger than any statement made so far by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u121	It is therefore important to understand where the Government is in relation to the position of the President of the Commission. Does the government support the revision of treaties or do you think it can be dispensed on behalf of a greater objective? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u122	Mr Firmino Marques has the floor in time for the PSD's questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u123	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members and Members : The President of the European Commission, in his recent speech on the state of the Union, has dealt with one of the most difficult dossiers Europe faces, the issue of migration. In this respect, he defended the balance between the protection of borders and people, security and humanity and sovereignty and the solidarity of the proposal of the pact for migration and asylum which the Commission had submitted three years ago, but still without the agreement of the co-legislators. Ursula von der Leyen stressed the importance of combating trafficking in human beings, considering that conflicts and climate change force people to seek refuge away from their homes. We are undoubtedly a solidarity continent that leads the way for new technologies, in reconciliation with nature, having its main basis in human beings. It is time for Europe to respond once again to the appeal that history makes to it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u124	We agree with the humanist vision of the President of the European Commission. However, we must not fail to mention challenges that need to be addressed and clarified, with particular concern for recent events in Lampedusa, Italy, where in just three days this week some 10 000 migrants — more than the entire population of that island — arrived in 199 boats.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u126	Ursula von der Leyen defended a European response to illegal immigration in Lampedusa and called on European countries to welcome some of those arriving in Italy. In the face of the great pressure that is happening, or when there is some shipwreck, our attitude is always of solidarity and willingness to welcome, within the framework of a voluntary mechanism and solidarity. The Portuguese Government has already been available to host some migrants under this mechanism, but has not advanced numbers. in this context, we would like to know how many migrants the government plans to receive and where. How will the reception of these refugees be done? Is economic support sufficient, in terms of amount and time? Learning the language of the host country is essential. Question : What mechanisms for learning Portuguese have they planned when they arrived in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u128	Is there concern about family reunification in the reception of young refugees? Should not State bodies, authorities, parishes and business fabric be involved and respond online? What is actually being done in this regard? In conclusion, when it took possession in 2019, the President of the Commission could not anticipate two serious crises that the Union would face during its mandate, pandemic and war, with diversified reflections. Despite the optimistic framework he drew, he responded to the crisis with a great sense of responsibility and, as she herself said, "Europe has no time to stop or waste". If we consider this to be an indication that it is available for a new mandate, we also have, in fact, good news there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u129	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Sousa began by saying that the European Union has, during this term of office, manifested a ability to respond to a single voice with absolutely unexpected and enormous challenges. It was indeed the way in which the European Union — at the initiative of the Commission, it is true, but with the involvement of all the institutions, Parliament and the Council — produced answers. Some, in fact, were completely unpublished and were authentic taboos, but that, in view of the need — either in the health plan itself, with the purchase of vaccines, or then, in the response to the economic crisis that followed, with the approval of the Next Generation EU and the collective use of markets by the European Union, with the approval of the so-called ‘bassucca’ of recovery and resilience programmes — were absolutely unprecedented mechanisms to respond to a huge challenge in which we were united. As we have fortunately been united in the response to Russia's illegal and unacceptable invasion of Ukraine and the atrocities that have been committed against the Ukrainian people. I therefore believe that, as we are approaching the end of European legislation, we can look back with optimism, realizing that the challenges that have been posed have been enormous and unexpected, but to a large extent the European Union has met these challenges. It has not done everything well, certainly — and I like to avoid the Manichaeisms — and it is natural that we would like it to be further or that it has done differently, but on the whole, the role of the European Union and the Union of the 27 in responding to these challenges has been essential, in fact, to respond directly to European concerns, difficulties and problems. If we now move from a more balanced perspective to a perspective for the future, he has set out a challenge which is projected for the coming years and which is also of enormous importance: the issue of enlargement of the European Union. The issue of enlargement is not new, of course, especially if we talk about the Western Balkans, where several of these countries have been candidates for a long time, but have won a new role and we can even say an acceleration. Mr President, I believe that it is only the PSD that will have doubts about the government's position in this regard. The Government's position is very clear and none of my colleagues around the Council table have any doubts about the Government's position on enlargement. The demonstrations, interventions, government positions on this subject, both internally and in Brussels, have been multiple, coherent and consistent, saying that there is obviously a geopolitical interest, there is a need to move forward in the enlargement dossier and we must combat the accumulation of frustrations in some of these countries, which have long been waiting for you to enter the European Union. Therefore, it is a theme that will advance and evolve in the coming years, as it has evolved over the past year, with decisions that are made unanimously. Therefore, of course, it has the support of Portugal to allocate the status of candidate country to Ukraine, Moldova, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the opening of negotiations with Northern Macedonia with Albania. With regard to all of this, Portugal has been on the right side, united with the other 26 Member States. What we also say is that, because we want to extend, we need to prepare the European Union for it to receive new Member States. We know how, already today, it is so often difficult to make decisions on 27, so imagine more than 30 Member States! We really need to change some of our operating rules and take into account the impact that enlargement will have on some key EU policies, including cohesion policy and agricultural policy, as well as the impact that it will have on the Community budget. We cannot ignore all this, on the contrary! Because we are serious about the enlargement process, because we want to be responsible for the enlargement process, because we want the enlargement process, we have to prepare, we have to create the so-called "absorption capacity" and make the necessary reforms for this. We should not start these reforms by saying 'we will change the treaties', because we have seen how difficult and traumatic some of them have been in the past. We must therefore first understand what the necessary reforms are, what the model of governance we want for an enlarged and more diversified Europe, and then we will see what steps we must take to that end. We do not focus on form or process, we focus on content. This debate, which began, is very important for the future of the European Union. Mr Firmino Marques referred to the subject of migration, which is absolutely essential and on which we must be supportive, as he said. This is the line that Portugal has always followed in this regard and it was also the line that, recently, Portugal reaffirmed, once again, about the migratory pressure that is happening on the island of Lampedusa. Portugal is voluntarily committed to the goal of receiving up to 350 migrants in the relocation regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u131	Send more! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u132	That was the goal that we have long manifested our availability...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u133	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u134	... and it was also in this framework that, more recently, we reaffirmed the availability to be able to receive some of the migrants who are arriving in Lampedusa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u135	And there are houses?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u136	Now, it is important to receive them, but it is also important to integrate them, as Mr President said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u137	And there are houses for that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u138	That is why the Government — and I have here the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, who, as you know, has this responsibility in the Executive — has come to prepare the new Agency for Integration, Migration and Asylum, which will start duties on 29 October. Also in this field, about teaching Portuguese, from January, there will be a very significant reinforcement, just with a new program dedicated to teaching Portuguese to those who arrive. Therefore, we are very focused on integration, because it is important that migrants can arrive, for the reasons I have already mentioned recently, in my initial speech, but that they can also be well integrated and welcomed into Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u139	We now move on to the time devoted to the questions of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, beginning with the floor of Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u140	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Two cases, both on the agenda, are revealing situations that threaten, in time, the balances necessary for the maintenance of the European Union as a coherent whole. I am referring to the question of Ukraine's cereals and to the deepening of the situation on the island of Lampedusa. Both questions point to a necessary balance between the defence of the fair and legitimate interests of each Member State of the Union and the policies drawn up in Brussels as common policies of the same Union, and they are both revealing how lethal it can be for the future of the European Union that these policies designed in Brussels systematically minimize or, completely, ignore the legitimate defence of their own and permanent interests, which belongs to each of the nations of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u142	The case of cereals from Ukraine and migrants that arrive massively in Lampedusa is very revealing that we are following a path that can eventually implode the European Union. The policy followed by the European Union of indiscriminate reception of migrants would obviously hit the wall of reality sooner or later; the reality of the populations of the Member States begin to react to what they feel—well or badly, here in case it does not matter—as a threat, as well as the reality of the need of their rulers to take that reaction into account. Mrs von der Leyen's visit to Lampedusa and her proposed 10-point programme, one step, is more than insufficient. Proof of this insufficiency is the conflict that arose almost immediately between Austria and Italy, proving that the simple dossier of distributing migrants arriving in the EU countries does not in fact represent a solution. The same problem with the issue of Ukrainian cereals. The European Commission's decision to lift temporary bans on Ukrainian cereals in five European countries, including Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, led these countries to decide to prohibit imports of Ukrainian agricultural products while respecting the interests of their farmers. Once again, Brussels, by the hand of the Commission, is on the wall of the reality of the interests of the member countries, and in this case the aggravating need for a common front with regard to the war on Ukraine. Something is very wrong when this is happening with one of the countries in Europe that have led support for Ukraine. We therefore hope that there will be a change in the direction and a search for new balances. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u143	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Nunes, also to the Parliamentary Group of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u144	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: In the debate of the state of the Union, the Socialist Party's conversation is the extreme right, the danger of the extreme right and «there comes the extreme right», coming here with conversations in which no one understands what is happening. One of the first things I'd like to understand was whether it's us who discriminate or not. I therefore asked all Members of the Socialist Party to show how many refugees can VV at the exit. Ex. receive in your home. How many are willing to receive in your home? [[Protests of PS Members.]] Because we just discussed the problem of no housing, but we just realized...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u145	Don't be for me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u146	Take it easy! We have just realized that with regard to Lampedusa, Portugal is committed to accepting 350 more. Tell me, gentlemen, how you can solve this problem of house multiplication! Unless, once and for all, they assume that they hide houses from the Portuguese,... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... because the State cannot solve the problem of housing in Portugal. The State that says it has to solve the problem of housing is the same as outside it cannot pressure the ECB ( European Central Bank ), cannot pressure the European Parliament and say that since we had joint measures for the purchase of vaccines and the purchase of arms, if we take a joint measure to solve the problem of housing. But I realize that this state of the Union today was for you much more than that. I am sorry that Mr Pedro Nuno Santos is not here — I cannot see him! — because, of course, you are happy to take it on the side of the Socialist Party and the members of the Government, finally, that Antonio Costa is a candidate to go out there. Clearly, what you have done with the attempt to bury Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, with the mixture that they have made of the political parties and European families where they are — you are clearly uncontextualized — was to launch the candidature of António Costa. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] What we sincerely hope is that this candidacy will be made, not on account of what you want, but on behalf of the President of the Republic, which will dissolve once and for all by all this Parliament, because what you see. For example, these immigration issues are embarrassing our homeland, our flag. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u147	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for European Affairs to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u148	Mr President, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, referred to three themes. I have had some difficulty following it, but it seems to me that the common element of these three themes is a criticism of the European Union. I would therefore like to see whether the criticism of Ukraine's cereals is that the European Union has taken solidarity to open up the single European market to imports of Ukraine's products, especially with regard to agricultural products. In view of the fact that, as you know, Russia has put an end to the Black Sea Cereals Agreement, thereby making it difficult for Ukraine's cereals to flow out and for the countries of the South to be given access to cereals, which are essential for combating hunger, I ask you: is that why it is coming? Is it against a measure of solidarity that is to receive the cereals and agricultural products of Ukraine? [[CH protests.]] So solidarity with Ukraine ends in cereals? Oh, my God! I don't get it, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u149	He then spoke of Lampedusa, and what is at stake, as has already been said, is to express solidarity, in the overall context of a voluntary mechanism of solidarity adopted by the European Union, in the face of the situation that occurs, especially in the countries on the first line, with the arrival of very significant numbers of migrants. This is the result of, above all, the action of human trafficking groups that put thousands of people at risk. Many of them, unfortunately, have died in the Mediterranean Sea and all we have to do is stop being a cemetery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, showing solidarity with this situation is absolutely essential. Is that why you are here? I don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u150	Yeah, they're coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u151	He then spoke about the issue of Austria and Italy. on this issue, what happened was a closure of borders, contrary to what is the Schengen area regime. Therefore, he is against the European Union's revenge for the Schengen regime, revenge for a free movement regime within the European Union, without borders, and believe that we should return to borders between all countries. That's the position that comes up here. [[Protests by CH Member Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.]] Mr President, finally, I regret that I have to disagree, of course. Then, Mr Bruno Nunes, your speech, and don't hurt me, was essentially addressed to the Socialist Party. I didn't record any questions you asked me, so I don't have any answers to give you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u152	Now, yes, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u153	Mr. President: I would like to congratulate the House on this new model of debate, which Mr. President will also get used to. Now it will be question and then answer, happily. That's the first positive point. The negative point is that the Minister responsible for European affairs is not here, but it is better than nothing, until in the previous debate no one was here and, therefore, to have Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State very much honour us, very much honour us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u155	I would like to begin with exactly the housing: it seems that the Government's request for help to the European Commission did not have much effect, because I heard Mr President's speech and there was practically no mention of housing. But even before the speech, I wanted to go to the letter because Mr Prime Minister says that «the lack of real estate supply is a problem in many cities and the housing charges have come up ». And he adds: "The European Commission must be very attentive to the problem of poverty. Do not keep on seeking. ” What I conclude is that it took appreciably two years, but finally they realized that the Liberal Initiative was right and that the big problem, in this case, is the lack of supply. This is because, as far as the search is concerned, unfortunately — or fortunately — we have been unable to do anything, because there are more separate families, this implies more houses. There are more immigrants, that implies more houses. The country is very centralized, more people come to the big cities, which implies more houses. Unfortunately there are no more houses and the government's promises have also failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u157	So I wanted to ask the following: before the government seeks help from the European Union, have you done everything you could? I think the answer is simple and it's "no". A clear example of this is that the State has been 16 years to know how many buildings it has. The last issue I found by the Tax Authority says that there were more than 60 000 buildings registered in the database. of these, many are certainly empty, and I ask you, after all, how many buildings the state has and how many are empty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u158	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u159	Second question: in this letter, the Government also suggested a European housing initiative. I did not realize what it was and I think the government did not understand either, but if the Secretary of State could explain to us what this initiative would be, we would appreciate it. Thirdly, as far as the Union's speech is concerned, on the problem of lack of labour — or perhaps perhaps rather, the lack of skills for certain job vacancies — which Mr President also mentioned, I ask you what Portugal has suggested in this regard, even because it is also a problem that we have suffered because we have exported a lot of qualified talent, we have also received several immigrants, but certainly not all have the level of qualifications that the Portuguese have. Even I would like to ask you how you see the hypothesis that some are already defending, in some countries of Europe — not that we are defending it, but I would like to know whether the government has already reflected on it — in relation to the fact that, when someone emigrates, part of the tax that pays to come to the country that paid for its formation. Of course, this is a problem today, we all know, especially in countries like Portugal, because we are paying for the formation of thousands and thousands of people who are simply contributing, then, to create wealth in another country, and our country has been greatly damaged by this and obviously loses a lot of money. Finally, as far as enlargement of the European Union is concerned, I have not yet understood well. It seems that, on the one hand, the Government is in favour of the accession of new countries, but on the other hand it is also very distressed by the loss of some part of the European funds. Therefore, what I would like to know is whether accession has any conditions in relation to European funds, whether the government will say 'we only accept if the money bill, for example, increases and whether Portugal's value does not fall'. In conclusion, a question obviously related to the part of the funds and the financing: what is the new architecture that the Government is defending for the European Union? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u160	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u161	Mr President, Mr Bernardo Blanco, as far as housing is concerned, I note some distractions on your part.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u162	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u163	The first distraction is when he says that there was no mention in the speech of the President of the European Commission. Right at the beginning of the speech—maybe, the honourable Member has lost the beginning of the speech! — there is an express mention of housing related, in fact, to the situation of young people. What is not really in the speech is the announcement of concrete measures in this area, which, as I have already mentioned, is understandable, since we are going to have European elections and the end of the European Commission's mandate will be in the middle of next year, when housing action is obviously a structural action, which takes time to take place. In fact, when we raised this question, in the letter, I don't know if you've been careful to notice that the letter has two parts...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u164	It's a letter of candidacy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u165	...and, precisely, it has part of more enforceable measures, in the short term, and another part of measures that are the launching of ideas for the future. That is precisely the suggestion of a European housing initiative. He then said that Portugal's request for aid had not been received. Mr President, I would like to clarify two misconceptions that have been generated about this debate. First, Portugal did not make a request for help to the European Commission. Portugal sent a letter...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u166	Nominee!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u167	... with suggestions of priorities that we believe should be European priorities. Housing, in fact, is only one of fifteen and therefore, as we did last year, and this year too, we suggested and proactively made a contribution, indicating what ideas, what measures, what programmes would it be useful for the European Union to take up as its own. A second misconception was that Portugal was trying to lay down responsibilities and to throw the resolution of this problem to the European Union. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] Well, nothing more wrong! Any moderately attentive viewer has seen that the government is working on housing and, indeed, there has been a wide debate in Portuguese society on the measures that the Government has taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some agree, others do not, Mr. Deputy will disagree. Now, there is no lack of action by the Portuguese Government in this area. Even today, Mr. Member, still today, perhaps he was here in Parliament and also had no opportunity to pay attention,... [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] ...but the Council of Ministers made very relevant decisions to help the Portuguese face the costs of housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And therefore there is no lack of government action in this area. It is an essentially national measure in which the Government is acting, but being transversal to all European countries, it makes sense that the European Commission is also studying and proposing initiatives in this area. That's what we said. Then perhaps another distraction factor, for which I draw your attention, is for the 2, 7 billion euros that are in the national PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), by option of the Portuguese Government, to invest in housing in this country, up to 2026, and that in the context of the ongoing reprogramming, in fact, will increase to 3, 2 billion euros. And, therefore, you think that something is not being done in this area is in fact a wide distraction. [[Protests by Members of IL Bernardo Blanco and João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] On the subject of the lack of skilled labour, as I said recently, there are very important measures at European level, both at national level and at national level which are being adopted in the field of reskilling and upskilling — I apologize for the Anglicanisms — of workers, to meet the challenges of digital transition, of green transition and to allow them to take advantage of the challenges of this new economy and, above all, of green jobs. The issue of brain drain has been noticed, and it is also a subject which is one of the suggestions for measures or programmes that the Prime Minister has sent to the President of the European Commission and, precisely, we also hope that the European Union will take this matter seriously and take measures in this regard. With regard to enlargement, Mr President, I would like to spend the whole afternoon discussing with you not only enlargement but also the reforms that the European Union has to make in order to allow this enlargement to take place and that the European Union continues to function effectively and efficiently. Time does not allow me to do so - unfortunately, but we will certainly have many opportunities to discuss this issue, whether here in plenary or in the Commission, because, indeed, it is a debate that has only begun now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u168	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u169	... and for which there are very interesting contributions that we will have time to discuss, certainly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u170	We now move on to the questions to be asked by the PCP. To that end, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : systematically, the debate on the state of the Union constitutes an exercise of self-reliance of the policies and options of the European Union by its leaders, without any correspondence to the concrete reality of people's lives. They talk about prosperity, but what is more inequality and injustice and less perspective for young people. I believe this is the fact that the problems affecting workers and the people — the brutal increase in the cost of living or the degradation of public services, the attack on rights and real wages — have not taken place in the intervention of the President of the European Commission as well as the problem of housing. the difficulties of families with high housing costs do not speak, but do not lack words of joy with the decisions of the European Central Bank, namely the increase in interest rates. They are decisions that are responsible for the unbearable increases in benefits to households with housing credit, which brought anxiety to many families, without knowing how long they will be able to continue to pay the benefit. After 10. the consecutive increase in interest rates, which has resulted in a huge payroll of workers—with the transfer of income from work to capital, to increase bank profits—, it is unacceptable that there is no word for these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u172	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u173	Do you think — and this is the question I would like to put to you, Mr Secretary of State — that the Government will have a response to the Office which the Prime Minister addressed to the President of the European Commission after it has been shown, in his speech, that housing is not a concern? In fact, he has even shown praise for the increase in interest rates and he has not had a single word for this problem, which actually shows that he has no concern about this issue. That is why the question is what the Government expects of this initiative and of that letter which you have addressed. What the government has even revealed with this initiative is that it wants to escape its responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u175	... seeking to pass the ball to the European Union, as if nothing could be done to prevent the increase of benefits to the bank. The government can face the bank's interests and can intervene on this concrete issue, when it is the bank that is making profit with the increase in interest rates — it is EUR 11 million per day! — and when wages and pensions do not pay until the end of the month.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u176	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u177	If it's the bank you're making, then it's the bank that supports benefits increases. Resources are being diverted from combating poverty, health, education, housing, transport, economic and social cohesion, to confrontation, to war, to the arms industry. The European Union, which is seized of rights, is the same one that leaves thousands and thousands of immigrants to their fate, in the Mediterranean, many of them for death. It reveals its hypocrisy, but above all, the inhumanity with which it treats humans. The conversation of European sovereignty continues to assimilate this concept to the sovereignty of the main European powers, with the subjugation of others. What is needed is to defend and respect the sovereignty of all Member States, their specificities and needs, to respect the right of everyone to development, which requires the refusal of taxation contrary to the interests of certain States, whether those relating to the arbitrary criteria of deficit and debt are the decisions of monetary policy or the brokering of liberalisations that impose upon us. Therefore, what is needed is the recovery of public and democratic control of the strategic sectors, of economic and monetary policy instruments that ensure, in a conjugated and sovereign manner, economic, social and environmental objectives, and at the same time the strengthening of rights, the promotion of peace, cooperation and friendship among peoples. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u178	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u179	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, as I said recently, I like little and I would like to avoid manichaeism in general, and in particular in the debate on European issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u180	It's reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u181	I therefore avoid saying or entering a speech that only sees everything right, everything beautiful, everything right in the work of the European Union. But I cannot agree with a line that sees everything wrong and that you think everything that comes from the European Union is wrong and bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u182	It is not a matter of looking wrong, it is a matter of seeing reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u183	I therefore believe that — as I said recently, responding to the intervention of the PS — it is true that the speech of the President of the European Commission has had some omissions. There are elements that I would like to have seen in the speech and which have not included, in particular, the social dimension of the European project, the importance of the European Pillar of Social Rights and the aid to which the most suffers. This is an essential mark of the European project, of the European social model, and must be stimulated. We must move forward and take significant steps, and some have been taken along the mandate, with a directive on minimum wages, on salary transfers, finally with several initiatives, but we would like to have gone further. That is why, in May, we also organized a summit in Porto to advance these issues, including the realization of the commitments and goals defined at the 2021 Port Summit. As regards housing, I would also like to have seen more ambition in this area and that is what we suggest, although we understand that these are structural measures, they are long-term measures and therefore this timing is perhaps difficult to present very innovative measures in this area. The honourable Member refers to the ECB's policy of raising interest rates, and I will not comment here, but I understand that the President of the European Commission has not done so either because it is not his competence...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u184	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u185	... as you know, it is a competence on which each of us has his or her opinion, but it is a competence exercised under an independent regime by the ECB. But aware of the impact this policy has, the government is working. And, precisely, Mrs Deputies, I invite you to look carefully at the measures that have been adopted today in the Council of Ministers in Leiria, which are precisely aimed at helping the Portuguese... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ... to meet the increased costs resulting from the increase in interest rates, which has been made by the European Central Bank. If I really think there will be answers to this suggestion of a European housing initiative? I think so, I think it is a seed that we have launched for debate and I think that the European Union cannot ignore this issue in the future, because it is a problem that is everywhere. As I say, when I talk to my colleagues from several other Member States, this is a problem that arises well above the national priorities of each of them and, being cross-cutting, it is natural that the European Union also needs to respond to the needs of Europeans, particularly the younger ones. But, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to explain, this suggestion we sent to the European Commission did not try to escape our responsibilities. I have already outlined a number of measures we have taken here. There is a very considerable volume of investments that are planned in the PRR for this purpose, as well as the More Habitat package, which discussed here, in this Chamber, before this debate. And so it is not about running away from responsibilities, it is about doing what we have to do at national level and suggesting that the European Union also do what it can and must do at European level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u186	You now have the floor, to intervene in the time reserved for the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members, Mr Secretary of State : The speech of the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, was in fact a completely self-centered speech, very self-sufficient, self-healing and therefore was a handy speech on his own work, the work done by the Commission, even in those areas to which he referred, but the reality ends up horrifyingly shuddering with the speeches. The Secretary of State himself referred, for example, to the issue of combating climate change, when we realize that from the point of view of the European Union there is a very low ambition for the challenges we have in this area. So we keep going back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u189	But the President's speech, Ursula von der Leyen, in fact, has already ignored the main economic, social and migration policy problems of the European Union. If, on the one hand, it has finally implicitly recognized that monetary policy is not functioning, on the other hand, it has not said anything at all about the economic and social crisis that families are currently going through, in particular, not a word about the housing crisis. Mr. Secretary of State had just said that he had to choose certain subjects and, therefore, there were issues that had not come in. It is not surprising that one of the biggest crises — as the Secretary of State has said — that affects a little the whole European Union is not the target of the statement of the state of the Union by the President of the Commission, since it affects a large part of the population, young people, less young people, several families. But it is even more shocking because an important part of this crisis is also caused by economic policies that are being pursued and which have the support of the European Commission itself. Like the President, Ursula von der Leyen, did not mention once again the successive rise in interest rates that suffocated families and, Mr Secretary of State, not necessarily referring to it, the fact is that we realize that von der Leyen endorses that which has been the ECB's interest rate policy and therefore endorses the consequences that this has to do with families, particularly in Portugal. I would like to ask another question: does it not consider that the Portuguese case, even within the European context, is very particular about the housing crisis? We already know that, for example, Lisbon is the most expensive city in Europe right now for rent, but we also realize that Portugal is of the few countries with such beneficial regimes from the point of view of non-payment of taxes from certain segments of the population, of investment that favours real estate speculation, which does not exist in other European countries and therefore we need to look more concretely at these issues. Therefore, given this almost absolute disconnection between the President's speech, Ursula von der Leyen, and what is the reality of families in the European context, it seems to me that it is obvious to ask whether the government also shares this disconnection, because what we feel here in Portugal is that in fact the measures put forward by the Government to resolve, in particular, the housing crisis, does not strike with reality and are not solving problems. Even to conclude, Mr President, with regard to migration policy and Frontex, reports and investigations on the systematic violation of human rights and cases of corruption continue. We've always warned about the dangers of this agency. However, the investment of States in this agency has increased and the migration crisis is not resolved with violence, it is not solved with human rights violations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u191	We would like to ask the Government about this agency, in order to know whether it will continue to endorse what has been a systematic violation, already more than proven by several investigations, of Frontex in its work on migrants. In addition, we would like to know whether the government will continue to support this European policy which, in fact, looks very differently to those seeking refuge, depending on where it comes from. This is not a policy of migration of reception, it is a policy of discrimination and violence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u192	You have the floor to answer, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u193	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, the speech of the President of the Commission, we have mentioned here, is essentially a balance sheet speech. I also said here that not everything has been positive throughout this mandate, but in fact there are important achievements and significant advances that have been made. The honourable Member, to give an example of something that she thinks is less good, says one of the areas where perhaps the European Union has gone further, which is precisely the area of combating climate change. In the first context of the adoption of the European Climate Law — which, in fact, occurred during the Portuguese Presidency — and then in fulfillment of that law and the objective set by carbon neutrality in 2050, was presented by the European Commission, and has been approved by the Council and the European Parliament, a wide and ambitious package called Fit for 55, which aims precisely in the various areas of the European economy to achieve this ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a very significant way. The European Union is leading ambition at this level worldwide every year when the world meets at the COPs ( Conference of the Parties) to discuss this issue. It is absolutely remarkable that the European Union has had leadership, and I therefore believe that it is a bad example to criticize the European Union and perhaps even a good example to praise the path that has been taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u194	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u195	As regards housing, Mrs Deputy — again at risk of repeating myself — is a national problem that we are trying to solve and for which we are taking action. And it is also a European problem, because it is common to many, to virtually all, if not all, the Member States. Yes, many families are having difficulties, under the ECB's interest raising policy, with the payment of their benefits. So today, it was adopted a measure that would qualify the interest...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u196	It's not very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u197	... and helps families who have the most difficulties in paying interest, which stabilizes the benefit for a period of two years, giving conditions for better management to deal with this increase in costs arising from the ECB's policy. Also at the level of income, for those who are not the owner of their own house, but live in a rented house, we have a measure to support the payment of the cost with the rents.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u198	Speculative prices!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u199	In terms of increasing supply, we have, in fact, a great deal of investment already under way, in particular from the Recovery and Resilience Plan, for housing construction which can be leased at affordable costs and which provides an answer, especially to the younger classes that lack housing, to their empowerment and to the development of their life projects. And I believe that, yes, the European Union will eventually give answers to this matter and there have been signs on it. The spokesmen of the European Commission also said that Commissioner Sefcovic, when he was here in Portugal, said so too, and there have been several statements in the sense that the European Union cannot in fact overcome this problem. Very quickly, with regard to Frontex, Mrs Deputies, we must distinguish: one thing is the mandate that Frontex has; another thing is possible human rights violators that have happened. With regard to these, of course, they must be investigated and, showing that they have occurred, the consequences must be withdrawn, and I have no doubt about that. Let us not confuse the work of the institution as a whole with possible practices which, if proven, are absolutely unacceptable and must have due treatment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of refuge and the welcome attitude we have for those who arrive on our continent, namely those who flee from situations of hunger or insecurity, or conflict, or persecution, cannot be different depending on where they come from. Obviously, I could no longer agree with you — whether from Ukraine or from another location, the attitude must be the same; whatever its skin color, the attitude must be the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u200	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u201	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister : In relation to the social issue, the Secretary of State has already answered, so I will not strengthen this issue until he meets those who are our concerns. But, Mr Secretary of State, in environmental matters, it seems that Mr President of the European Commission's speech has in fact fallen short, especially with regard to Farm you and Fork, but also with regard to the biodiversity strategy, which have been completely out of speech. And it is even with concern that, on account of a personal case, we have seen the one that is the protection and preservation of the Iberian wolf, a species that says so much to Portugal and that, for us, it is essential that it be preserved throughout the European Union. But we would like to highlight here two aspects, one that was present in the speech and one that was completely absent. With regard to what you have been present, and which seems to us to be in some way positive, but which is a dialogue that has to be strategic and done in two components — and we would like to see Portugal's position on this dialogue — I am referring to the future of agriculture in the European Union. So, I wanted to know if this dialogue is going to be done only with the agriculture lobby...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u202	Ah, the agricultural lobby!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u203	It is! It's the greenhouse lobby!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u204	... or if you are actually going to open the doors to new precision technology, if you are going to open the doors, for example, to plant-based, to what is 100 % plant, to cellular agriculture, so that, in fact, we can somehow introduce a food transition to more sustainable production modes. Will we or will we not continue to allow the Minister for Agriculture to encourage, the contraception of other countries of the European Union, the transport of live animals or Portugal will finally also have an ethical consideration here for the end of the transport of live animals? As far as you have been absent, Mr Secretary of State — with the tolerance of Mr President — the European Union's position vis-à-vis the G20 ( Group of 20 ), once again words of circumstance remained and I can only point out that last year's $1.4 billion was granted in public subsidies to the fossil fuel industry. There is no mention of this absolutely astronomical value which continues to finance highly polluting industries and are outside of that which is the fight against the climate crisis, which has so efusively spoken here. We continue to have objectives here and we will soon have COP28 and a need for transition in public transport. That is why we would like to realize what the Secretary of State thinks about this and what a commitment Portugal will take both to COP28 and to the other meetings of the European Commission, because it is essential that once and for all we start talking about these funding at global level.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u205	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u206	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real began by saying that the environmental speech of the President of the European Commission had fallen short of what was desired. Well, dare-CL - I would say that whatever the environmental speech of the President of the European Commission would always fall short of what she wanted for Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. [[NAP protests.]] The truth is that the European Commission and the Union, as a whole over the past few years, have made great progress both in the fight against climate change, with the Fit for 55 package, which I have already announced here, and in very broad measures in the most varied economic sectors and in society to reduce emissions. In fact, it is a matter in which much progress has been made in mitigating emissions. We may have much more to do, for example, in adapting to climate change, because these are challenges that remain for the future. But with regard to energy, above all, and clean energy, she referred to fossil fuels. On the one hand, the President of the Commission's speech on energy, which he referred to, was green hydrogen and wind energy. Therefore, clearly, priorities are well-identified and renewable energies. That's the way. That is also a very obvious way for Portugal, for the Portuguese Government, and that is the way we have come. We already have a very significant percentage of renewable energy in our energy mix, and that is good, because it is clean energy and it is also good in economic terms, as has been shown. We have finally been more protected from the impact of gas price escalation, particularly on international markets, precisely because of the great weight we have of renewable energy in our energy mix and also because of the Iberian mechanism, which we, together with Spain, have been negotiating in Brussels. This is also a point where European action — allowing us to adopt this Iberian mechanism — has helped our families to bear less costs with electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u207	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u208	I'm done now, Mr. President. Then, in the field of agriculture, what the President of the Commission has said — and I think it is correct — is that it has to be possible to develop agricultural activity and to maintain the protection and restoration of nature. The two things can't be contradictory, they can't be turned on their backs. This dialogue has to be done and both sectors have to be handy. Therefore, much progress has also been made in the field of protection of nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u209	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u210	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State : in this new model of European debate, here in our Parliament, it is very important not to do the debate turned inside or just to look at the rearviewer. It is important that the European Union has had a response to the pandemic much better than that of the euro zone crisis. But the challenges ahead are of a completely different dimension and nature and will have an impact on the future of Portugal and of the next generations, which is also incomparable. I remember seeing Portugal discuss, late and late, the entry into the euro or enlargement to the East, or China's entry into the World Trade Organization, and then we will see ourselves in our arms with the consequences that these events have had for our economy and for our society. I would not like to see this happen to the current enlargement, for which I see that there are many people who, in Portugal, have an attitude to expect someone to go for us. And that is a fundamentally unfair attitude, particularly for Ukrainians, who are now giving their lives for the entry into the European Union. And if it is fair that, from the point of view of the rule of law, of democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u211	They give their lives! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u212	Do you doubt they're giving their lives, Mrs. Joana Mortagua? I think this is a sincerely captivating doubt and it doesn't look very good on you. They are clearly giving life, and we all know that. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] But what I wanted to say is that while others deviate from the debate that is of interest, this debate is already being held. Three days ago, the report of the Franco-German working group on the enlargement of the European Union was published. Therefore, there are already those who are imagining the forthcoming configurations of the European Union, suggesting for example that there are European Commissioners with the right to vote and others without the right to vote - and that is a matter that we should be concerned about - but suggesting, on the good side of the proposals, that Article 7. the rule of law in the European Union becomes functioning by a qualified majority rather than by unanimity. But for that, we need an amendment of treaties, with which our Government does not count. I make a suggestion and launch a challenge. The suggestion is that we invite this working group to come to the Assembly of the Republic, and we will send a request to the Committee on European Affairs for Prof. Olivier Costa to come here, who coordinated this working group. And the challenge I pose to the Government is not to exclude this debate and to, together with other countries comparable to Portugal — with Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Slovakia, the Baltics — let us also launch our report with our proposals for enlargement of the Union, in which, from the point of view of democracy, the rule of law, funds, the functioning of the Union and what the European Union should be like a common house, Portugal may have a word to say and will not stay behind in the debate. Here's the challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u213	So we end point two of our agenda. I am sorry, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u214	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, on the subject of enlargement, we have, on the one hand, the housework that the candidate countries have to do and the support that I personally and the Portuguese Government have expressed to each of them for technical assistance — to help them with know-how, with knowledge of the accession process, on the various European dossiers, to meet the goals, in order to be able to integrate the European project. There is a geopolitical dimension that has to do with the war in Ukraine, of course, but above all there is the dimension of a policy that is based on the merit of each country, which has a demanding process in which we should be ready and useful, helping them to meet these goals and meet the Copenhagen criteria. That's one side of the story. The other side of history is the home work of the European Union itself, the reform we have to do in order to be able to be able, not because we do not want enlargement, but precisely on the contrary. Because we want enlargement, we need to be prepared for it when the candidate countries are ready, so are we. This is so that the time comes when the candidate countries meet all the criteria and we, after all, or for one reason or another, are not in a position to integrate. I thank you for mentioning the report of the Franco-German Group of Experts, which was presented just two days ago in the General Affairs Council, in which I participated in Brussels. This is a debate that we are very interested in, and we are in line with the participation in this debate. A few months ago, there was little appetite for this debate. The first meeting, perhaps at which this topic was really discussed, was a meeting that I organised in Porto with the Member States of the European Union's Atlantic Façade, where for the first time there was awareness that, within the framework of enlargement policy, the European Union also has domestic work to do. There are very interesting ideas, others less. This report is very dense, it clearly has a lot of material to digest, to assimilate, to discuss. There are things that, perhaps, are not feasible, there are others that are interesting. It is a debate that now begins and Portugal is in the front line, because we want this reform, because we want to prepare ourselves so that we can reach the moment of enlargement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u215	Now, yes, we can move on to point three of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 316 / XIV / 3. a (Ana Filipa Ferrão Silva et al.) — They request the immediate suspension of the use of the digital Certificate of Covid Vaccination. I have to inform the Plenipotentiary that the signatories have been contacted to find out whether they have maintained their petition, given the underlying facts, and have decided to maintain them. Therefore, the petition is appreciated in these terms. Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, who has the floor, is inscribed by the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, this House owes an apology to the petitioners. The petition entered this House on September 30, 2021, now being discussed, two years ago, in a half-hour grid. It is true that this case is not unique in this House, but we must all together reflect on how, in a single circumstance, we have not been able to address the concerns of our citizens, taking up this debate once again in a situation where it has become extemporaneous. That is why, then, an opportunity to remember much of what the Portuguese went through in the context of the covid-19 pandemic. It is true that they were difficult times and full of uncertainties. It is also true that, initially, the various governments dealt with highly incomplete information and a partial view of reality, which was difficult to counter. Yes, it was difficult and it was difficult. But even though it is difficult, many of the decisions made and the atmosphere of repression that was imposed, during the pandemic, were not justified, especially with the passing of time and when the information and scientific data were more solid. We had rules that went to the smallest detail and the government trying what is not at all possible: to anticipate all the situations and behaviours of the Portuguese. And the result was many decisions in the field of absurdity. Let us remember, then, that wine could not be bought in the supermarket from 8 o'clock in the evening; you could not buy bottled water on gas pumps; you could not cross the border to the next municipality, even if you lived close family members on the other side of the road; you could not have lunch in the car itself and there were citizens fined for that fact; you could not drink coffee on the street—it was the famous coffee at the place—; you could not go out of the residence block or exercise on the street, even though alone; you kept schools closed for too long, forcing a whole generation to lose two years of present classes, and whose recovery still today the government cannot get to work. And all this, starting from failing what was most important, vaccination, where it was then I had to resort to the Armed Forces to make it all go well. And we have never seen an apology for the long role of abuse of power that the Portuguese have suffered over more than two years, even if measures to contain the contagion of covid-19 were necessary. The Government did not trust the Portuguese, the Government did not defend the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the Portuguese. Passing the solution through vaccination, the vaccination certificates came, which could never result in excessive discrimination between the vaccinated and the non-vaccinated. In Portugal, they were required to work, determining it centrally and without respect for the variety of circumstances in which people exercise their professions. rather than decentralising responsibility, for different organisations and companies to make their risk assessment, the easier way was followed by the elimination of rights, which was not necessary, but so decided by the government, with the support of many in this Parliament. This tendency to follow the most repressive, less respectful way of freedom, is a little evident in every public debate. This is particularly evident in the ongoing constitutional review process, where the PS, with the probable consistency of the PSD, intends to approve mandatory confinements without judicial decision or the use of metadata of personal communications, not only for criminal investigation purposes, which can even be understood within well defined limits, but also — stop! — by the information services whose supervisory structure leaves much to be desired, as we have seen in a very recently famous case. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do not count on the Liberal Initiative ever to support and support the suppression of the freedoms of the Portuguese.]] [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u217	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Aragão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, on 1 July 2021, the digital certificate covered came into force; on 30 September, this petition came into force — two months later — and two years later, we are in fact discussing it in plenary. Therefore, it is extemporaneous, at the bottom, the object of this petition. Still, the moment always serves to make some evaluation of a period that has been new to many people, and there are things that, however, do not change. They do not change, because it is easy—or it could be easier—to go in real time by making criticism of the options that have been taken, even if these options were taken in the unknown, but, despite everything, it does not make any sense, when we succeed in doing them retrospectively, realizing what happened, realizing its consequences, which is, in essence, what we can do today, a little, here. I think we should say there were no more repressive ways.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u219	Oh, no, there wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u220	What happened was more collective pathways, and this was clearly an option. There were no individual routes, there were clearly more Community ways, this was also an option. [[CH and IL protests.]] This certificate, which is only an example, is not an exclusive Portuguese case. It was adopted by the 27 countries of the European Union, plus the three countries in the economic area, plus 37 countries that I have not mentioned. So we are not talking about any invention or any national creation, nor about any repressive attempt on the citizens. What has actually been an effort to balance rights, freedoms and guarantees...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u221	That's why they made the petition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u222	...and a Community effort to respond to a health emergency which, as a health emergency, was in fact a Community effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u224	That's what you did. The discussion on this subject is time-consuming with regard to this object, but it will not fail to be in relation to the evaluation that we will continue to make. And I end with a very simple sentence, an idea that Mrs. Ombudsman left, at last week's hearing, and that I think that closes this discussion well, and I quote, if it is not for them words, it is practically: "As a community, we drive the boat in an admirably way. Do not keep on seeking. ” I think this is what matters to us because, in fact, this is what the Portuguese have recognized, and that is what the different reports that start to emerge also confirm. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u225	And the Constitutional Court also confirms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u226	For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the first subscriber, the thousands of subscribers of the petition we are discussing today, which is of the greatest importance. And it is of the greatest importance for two simple reasons. The first, of course, is that the exercise of the right to petition is a very important instrument, which contributes to the improvement of our democracy, as it brings the citizens of their representatives closer together. And therefore allow me, of course, to welcome the thousands of subscribers of this petition for their initiative, for their civic participation, which undoubtedly enriches the political debate and our democracy. [[PSD applause.]] But this petition is also of great importance because of the matter here, for the reasons I will explain below. Many will say—and well, as has already been said—that this petition has completely lost its current status and opportunity, paying attention to its object, which is quite clear: the petitioners want the immediate suspension of the digital certificate of hideous vaccination, because they understand that the imposition of this certificate for access to places, goods and services, constitutes a clear violation of constitutionally consecrated fundamental rights. Indeed, as we all know, unfortunately this petition has lost its present; it is extemporaneous and has lost its opportunity. Because if this petition made sense at the time of its presentation here, in the Assembly of the Republic today, it makes no sense, since, as a result of a battle by all, restrictive measures to combat the pandemic were gradually lifted and the normality of our restored country. And for this reason, today, we have to say and say that they do not impose any suspensions or restrictions on their constitutional rights, freedoms and guarantees on the Portuguese. In fact, this normality is now consolidated, not only because the state of alert has definitely ceased in Portugal about a year ago, but also because, on May 5, this year, it was declared by the World Health Organization the end of the health emergency situation for the overall covid-19. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the year of 2023 marking the end of the state of emergency of covid-19, we know today, better than ever, that humanity, than modern societies, is always subject to new risks, to new threats likely to pose a serious risk to public health. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u228	And therefore, the matter that this petition brought us today cannot be viewed or given as discarded or closed and deserves proper consideration in the context of a new emergency for public health reasons. In fact, the uncertainty of the future calls on all of us to take a serious look at the guarantee of the protection of fundamental rights in times of crisis or emergency for public health reasons, which must necessarily be reflected in the constitutional issues raised in relation to the measures to combat the pandemic imposed at the time of the emergency state and, in particular, after it has been lifted, these measures that constituted and effectively translated into genuine restrictions and suspensions of constitutionally enshrined rights, freedoms and guarantees. And because these restrictions have undoubtedly reaffirmed the importance of the rule of law in the protection of fundamental values and individual freedoms, the PSD Parliamentary Group, within the constitutional review process, will ensure that a general regime for exceptional constitutional situations of crisis or emergency that represent serious risks to public health and that they themselves constitute a threat to the life of the community in charge of the State. Having said this and to end, we must also make a balance sheet here and highlight the crucial importance of the Covid Digital Certificate in Europe's response to the pandemic, insofar as it allowed the reopening of our societies, the reopening of our economies, and therefore it was essential to support the tourism sector which, as we all know, was seriously and hard hit by the pandemic. In fact, because of the well-known success of the Covid 19 Digital Certificate, the World Health Organization adopted the European Digital Certification Union system in July this year in order to establish a global system that will help to facilitate overall mobility and protect citizens around the world...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u229	How did it go with the immigrants? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u230	... against threats to health, not only present but also future. I shall finish by reminding the honourable Members. Members that our rule of law cannot be given as guaranteed and it is our responsibility to ensure that any threats to public health do not also pose a threat to the future of our democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u231	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u232	Ex. Mrs. President, Mr. Members, Ex.mos Sr. Petitioners: We are here today in the Assembly of the Republic, House of Democracy and Freedom, House where each of the 230 Members has the first obligation to defend freedom and democracy. Our entire political and civic action, as Members of the Nation, should be geared towards the service of the common good. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, this petition is an instrument conferred by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic on the common citizen to exercise his citizenship and participate in Portuguese political life. I would therefore like to send my democratic greetings to the promoters of this petition for the immediate suspension of the use of digital certificate of hideous vaccination and, even to each of the thousands of subscribers for the courage to defend freedom in Portugal, in Europe and in a world where the defence of self-determination and free will is considered an attack on democracy and freedom itself. Therefore, this petition maintains its validity and its present status. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The gentlemen. Petitioners are an example of true Democrats and free men. Like the militants of the Arrival, they know what it is to be the victim of this system which is said to be democratic and know what it is to live surrounded by sanitary cords and red lines; they know what it is to be slandered by the social communication and the propaganda machines of the system; they know what it is to be the target of the defamatory epithetes of "dangerous", of "risk to the population" or even of "threat to democracy"... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... when the danger to democracy is this majority sitting here who, violating all the principles of the Charter of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution itself of the Portuguese Republic, have limited freedom and imposed 10 million Portuguese prisoners. As we have always said in the Arrival, even the Constitutional Court judges have reiterated that the limitations on individual freedom could not be regulated either by the Government or by Parliament to declare quarantines outside the state of emergency. Mrs. Petitioners, it is also a shame—yes—that this petition is only being discussed today. Two years have passed since his admission and this fact alone is humiliating and revealing of the malfunction of this House and of how all the giant decadent and balof the Portuguese State is. But the time comes to change, change by vote and by popular force, time on the streets we denounce all those responsible for the overthrow of our homeland. The Portuguese can count on the third political force to defend freedom. We were the only ones who wanted the citizens to have all the information about the vaccine business and about who stayed with the millions of our taxes; we are the only ones who want to know the reasons for the expected excess of expected mortality, in addition to the pandemic and beyond the demography, and who in the last three years have exceeded 28 500 deaths. Official data show that there is an absurd excess of mortality, mainly between 5 and 24 years and over 85 years of age. The excess of non-covid mortality fired in 2021 and in 2022 was 10 times higher than the previous one, and now, in 2023, adolescents and young adults aged between 15 and 24 years have mortality at levels never seen. So we want a parliamentary committee of inquiry to know what is going on year after year, which is increasing the mortality of Portuguese people, which we represent here, mainly of the younger ones. This majority doesn't let you know what's going on, this majority doesn't want to know about the Portuguese people who are dying. But we, sirs. Members, Madam President, we will persist, we will continue here, because so the Portuguese have appointed us, and we will not allow freedom and the rule of law to be destroyed by this Marxist globalist majority. Freedom, yes, is at risk; resisting is a civic act, resisting is an act of law. We'll resist! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u233	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. in this petition we discussed today, the petitioners request the immediate suspension of the use of the covid-19 certificate. I heard the speeches made by the honourable Members. Members and this petition was here entitled 'extemporaneous', in the case of Mr Bruno Aragão, and Mrs Ofélia Ramos made an assessment of what we could learn from the lesson that the pandemic brought us, in particular with the use of this certificate, but so far in none of the interventions we have learned, what lesson we have taken and, if we were put again in front of this situation, how we would solve it. Probably, from what I realized about your interventions, it would be exactly the same intervention, ipsiverbis, to what was done in terms of the issue of the said certificate, until no one has reflected on where, how and with what objectives this certificate of curfew 19 appeared. It emerged, was issued and produced in the European Parliament, which regulated the framework for the issue, verification and acceptance of interoperable certificates. And it was in this framework that the Portuguese Government decided to take forward this certificate, which, in addition to vaccination, also attested to tests and recovery. But we can say that it was something new, that we had no reference, that there were no criteria for this issue, but the fact is that we had, and the CFP Members in the European Parliament in February 2021, identified the one which is the reference to which Portugal, the European Union and 196 countries adhered, in particular, to the International Health Regulation which the WHO (World Health Organization) has defined and of which this certificate made a raw taboo, in particular on the concerns that the CFP presented regarding personal data and the possibility of misuse of such data. For this reason, it was important to respond, in particular with regard to the movement of persons, but also with regard to the capacity of each State to define the conditions for access to its territory in accordance with such criteria, which should have been the reference to the International Health Regulation and which no one has discussed to date, nor does anyone want to know of such important criteria as are already defined. But it is also important that, in conjunction with this, we discuss something that is fundamental, which has to do with the issue of protection of the population, both in terms of health and in terms of prophylaxis, in particular vaccination. Mrs. Members, we must not forget that vaccination was essential to save lives and has also allowed the resumption of economic, social, cultural and sporting activities, but it is important to mention what has been done about vaccination, particularly when the European Union states, and Portugal also financed research, financed risk insurance and even bought vaccines in advance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u235	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u236	...and, after all this, they abdicated what would be important, which was the property rights of vaccines. And, therefore, what we find interesting today is that those who voted in favour of this certificate, particularly in the European Parliament — the PS, the PSD and the CDS voted in favour of this certificate — were against when the CFP presented proposals for vaccines to be a public good.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u237	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u238	And that is why we call for consistency in the approach and learning that we should make these lessons of coward-19. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u239	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, in the person of the first petitioner. Despite the extemporaneous nature of this petition, which we have already regretted, because we are discussing it almost two years after it has entered — a delay that not only prevents the fulfilment of the rights of citizens, which, in this case, is quite evident, as in no way dignifies the Assembly — the fact is that, having declared the end of the pandemic, there are no longer concerns and sequels that remain, either within our relationship with the natural world and that which has originated the pandemic itself, is also within the framework of the commitments. There is a clear example of this: still this month, the Madeiran nurses did not receive the covid-19 allowance for 2021, contrary to what was combined with guardianship. We continue to fail to give a full response to the situation, even if it seems to be overcome, and this is also a concern, that is, the Portuguese's own confidence in the ability to respond to commitments made with professionals and possible new pandemics, for which the World Health Organization has already warned, or even to the emergence of other types of climate change phenomena, with which we will have to be able to deal. And we cannot claim to think that we do not live in a favorable framework for the occurrence of them, a picture that has been aggravated by several factors, including the climate crisis, which has serious implications, as we well know, in human health, in the health of the planet and animal health, and these three dimensions must be seen as one health. In conclusion, I would just like to point out that, since there is a constitutional review process, which has already been mentioned today by the PSD Member, this constitutional review process should not constitute a « Pandora's box » and all that may be the restriction of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees must in any way be revised with clamps. It is that we have a Basic Law which was conquered with April 25, and it is not on account of a pandemic that now, the trailer of a review, we must somehow restrict rights in any way and in an absolutely irreflective way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u241	It's easy to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u242	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Looking ahead, it is clear that the world has been able to deal with the pandemic of covid-19 in a way that is much more effective and secure than what it has done with previous pandemics. Just think of the pandemic of pneumonia, with which perhaps between 50 and 100 million people died in a world population that was four times less than what we have now, in which ten times fewer people died per coward-19. Public health measures — pharmacology, vaccine and before that, masks, confinements — worked. In the countries that applied them less, there were deaths in excess, as in Brazil, with 600,000 deaths in excess, and in other countries there were deaths below the average of comparable countries, as in ours. This debate, however, is not extemporaneous—and I agree with what some speakers have said, but perhaps for reasons other than those they have claimed—because there is much to learn about what to do in future pandemics. In fact, we must note that the last meeting of Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) that we had was almost a year ago and we should be having other meetings, because nothing tells us that the next pandemic will be only 100 years; it may be in 10 years or in 1! But this debate also brings within it a debate on freedom in which there are two concepts of freedom which are very different and which are worth it, despite everything, to identify and point out: in one of them, being free is not to have any interference from the State, i.e. "the State does not interfere with me, it does not ask me for a certificate and I am free, even if I am putting the life of the person next to it" ; in another view, freedom is capacity, the possibility of self-realization and, for that, a very simple thing is needed—it is necessary to be alive and it is necessary to take care of those who are next to us. I will not be free if I, on the street, are risking the person who is next there, more fragile than I, older, with a respiratory disease. If there is an interference with my freedom that tells me that I must put on a mask to save my citizenship, I think it is a necessary balance to preserve everyone's freedom. In fact, it is a concept of freedom in which some say 'only mine is what counts' and there are others who say 'accounts of all the same', and I think that this debate is never extemporaneous. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u244	We have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We move on to the last point, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition No 75 / XV / 1. a ( Bernardo Alexandre da Silva Venâncio ) — By amending the legislation regulating the practice of airsoft and, in general, of the Bill No 789 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Removes airsoft devices from the law of arms. To present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our objective today is simple: to open the debate and start the work so that a consensus in the field of expertise can be reached in order to clarify the legislation and simplify the life of airsoft practitioners, who, I warn you, are not the same as paintball. Airsoft practitioners participate recreationally in simulations of police and military operations, in which they have equipment that shoots spheres that are not bullets, nor are they able to be turned into bullets, nor do they have combustion thrusters, nor do they have any danger. Yes, the equipment is similar to firearms, but that's not the case. They are harmless and impossible to be transformed into real firearms. Portugal may have the most restrictive law in relation to this sport mode among the developed countries, with no end of bureaucracy. I give an example that you would like to hear carefully, to see how ridiculous it is: these equipment must have a fluorescent painting in part of them, and this painting may be covered during the game; these equipment also have to be inside a closed bag during its transport, so the only person who sees this painting, which is mandatory, is the owner of the equipment when it is at home, on the couch, because the equipment is inside the bag to be transported and during the game the painting can be covered, therefore, for no use; and whoever wants to use these equipment to cause some kind of social alarm, will certainly not paint the weapon or will obviously comply with the legislation. We're punishing anyone who does. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] What is not lacking are much more dangerous equipment than these, to which we are fortunately not imposing these obligations. Bureaucraties like these, or like the ban on equipment lending, only make it difficult for people to live and limit the growth of the modality, and we are far from the legal regime of other European countries. The point is that, in my view, the law was wrong. It was done not on the basis of the danger or the possibility of converting the equipment into a weapon, but on the basis of the appearance of the equipment. But there are also a number of objects, from toys to PlayStation commands, game commands, which look like weapons and, fortunately, they do not seem to have the same legal requirements that these equipment have — I do not want to be giving ideas to anyone, to come here to propose even more legislation, but fortunately, so far, they do not. The Ministry of Public Affairs, in its opinion, which I read carefully, says that national law complies with European law, insofar as it does not treat reproductions of firearms for recreational practices—in which airsoft equipment is inserted—as firearms. So far, it's all right and we agree. But the Public Prosecutor's Office also says that the current drafting of the arms law, with regard to reproductions of firearms for recreational practices — in which these equipment are included — raises doubts of interpretation and integration, and appears to be paradoxical. I explain why: if you read the law, which is quite confusing, what seems to be in the regime is that the equipment is out of the law, but at the same time they are within the law. Therefore, the regime excludes them and includes them at the same time, as confirmed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I had the job of going to see the public statements of the height and it seems that what the legislators of the time wanted was to exclude them. But it seems that the wording has not been clearer and, therefore, practitioners see this uncertainty and often arbitrary decisions by the supervisory authorities. Therefore, of the two, one : or we clarify this with a separate legal regime, which was what we proposed, with the consequent regulation by the Government ; or we clarify the current legal regime, as recommended by the Public Prosecutor, and we clearly exempt airsoft equipment. Either way, either of these two options, the Liberal Initiative is fully available to work, in the field of specialty, also taking into account the recommendations of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and to reach a consensus, and I hope that more parties will be there, because at the hearing of the petitioners, where I was and where they were also the PS and PSD, these two parties showed themselves available to listen to people and to change the legal framework, working in a consensus solution. So the day has come today, and what is asked is that they make this project possible, so that this consensus is reached and the lives of these people are simplified. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u246	For an intervention, Mrs Anabela Real, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet the more than 7512 petitioners, in the person of the first subscriber, Bernardo Alexandre da Silva Venâncio, and the petitioners present here. Through the right of petition, the subscribers have exercised what constitutes a right to assist citizens and which, being a form of civic participation, makes us all reflect on the subject, contributing to the parliamentary legislative process. We also welcome the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, for the initiative it has presented here, in which it is recognized the importance of the most diverse levels of this sport mode - namely economic, social and environmental levels - which has thousands of practitioners in our country for a few years. The petition today under discussion seeks to amend the legislation governing the practice of airsoft and the equipment used in this sport mode, in particular by amending Law No 5 / 2006 of 26 February as well as the establishment of a legal regime regulating the purchase, sale, rental and use of firearms for recreational practices, considering that the legislation in force, compared to that of other European countries, imposes too many restrictions on equipment used in fashion and sports practice. However, the objective of the legal regime on arms and ammunition was to maintain in a single legal instrument all the rules applicable to firearms and other related matters. The reproduction of firearms for recreational practices is in accordance with Article 3 ( 9 ( e ). that of the said regime, a G-class weapon. We are faced with objects which, by their confoundability with real firearms, in the eyes of ordinary citizens, can generate situations of real social alarm. The legislator wanted to discipline this type of weapon by imposing restrictions, such as the imposition of small arms painting, and defining the projects admitted, precautioning the safety and physical integrity of practitioners. It was also understood by the legislator that the restrictions on its acquisition — age limitation, obligation to issue invoice receipts or equivalent document and proof of inclusion in a legally recognised sporting association — are justified by a matter of control, monitoring of the State in respect of these weapons, only for reasons of safety and public tranquility, regulating the need for such control as to the detention, flow and use of such type of weapons by prevention, in a society which, if necessary, is consensually secure. The legislator also considered that there are no legal constraints in the practice of this activity. As regards the Community legislation of Directive ( EU ) 2021 / 555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, it is found that it does not apply to other objects, such as airsoft devices, which are not covered by the definition of ‘firearms’ and are not thus regulated by this Directive. It is also recalled that the weapons used in the practice of airsoft are already outside the scope of the super-referenced law, not being its holders punished under it, since it only regulates the possession, transport and use of weapons. Because they are perfect replicas of real weapons, even if these weapons are harmless, it cannot be overlooked that they are genuine replicas of firearms, and they can be misused, particularly in the simulation of assaults or other aggressions, since they are not distinguished from lethal weapons, so their danger lies not in their use per se, but in the possibility that they are used for illicit purposes. You have entered in this Parliament the Bill No. 99 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the special regime for the acquisition, detention, use and carrying of firearms, ammunition and accessories intended for sport and collection practices, which is still receiving contributions and can be improved, while at the same time completing the transposition into the internal legal order of the amendments introduced by the Directive on the control of the acquisition of weapons. Along with the Government's bill, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group also reflected on the matter, recognizing the importance of this sport practice, and taking good note of the claims and concerns of the 7512 citizens expressed in the petition received and reiterated in the hearing of petitioners held. We are still receiving contributions from other entities, which, like your claims and contributions, will be carefully examined and in due course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u248	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u249	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 7500 petitioners who have subscribed to this initiative and those who are present here. It is undeniable that the practice of airsoft has been winning fans in Portugal and proof of this is also the petition we are discussing today. The Assembly of the Republic should therefore not be indifferent to its claims or to the legal issues that have also been raised in several countries of the European Union. Nor should concerns be left aside regarding the environmental issues involved in the practice of this modality, especially because it is a mode of outdoor practice, taking into account the safeguarding of public safety, the use of replicas of weapons, and also, as is clear, because the practice of this type of activity is mostly done with the outdoor populations, the protection of populations in the vicinity. The use of plastic munitions must be a concern to take into account in this debate, like the concern with other types of munitions. At present there are conventional ammunition that is made of oil-based plastic, but there are already more sustainable alternatives on the market, including biodegradable ammunition of plant origin, which must be preferred and even encouraged in the practice of airsoft.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u250	They're vegan ammunition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u251	Since we are so close to the State budget, I would like to make the suggestion: it is precisely this kind of action that should be implemented in this activity, and even in other games similar to the one we are discussing today. Having said that, the NAP does not oppose the establishment of a working group, in particular for the weighting and analysis of the questions put by the petitioners, as proposed in the petition, in order to improve legislation, always safeguarding the protection and safety of persons and animals, and also environmental protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u252	It's replacing bullets with peas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u253	Mr Pedro Pessanha, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank the petitioners for their presence. Airsoft's sporting activity has been markedly growing in Portugal and the world in recent decades. With about 17 000 practitioners in national territory, this activity increasingly awakens the interest of Portuguese of the most varied age groups and social groups. But, in addition to being a sports activity, airsoft, despite many difficulties and some legal obstacles, has for some time begun to consolidate itself as an interesting economic activity, whether in the marketing of equipment either in event organization or in the constitution of sports promotion associations. Being a challenging activity in strategic and tactical terms — of coordination, leadership, logic, orientation, survival and physical activity — airsoft is by no means a violent sports activity and, although the equipment used for its practice are similar, in appearance, to firearms, they are completely harmless and safe. The impact of PVC (vinyl polychloride) spheres designed by airsoft equipment is little more than harmless. Despite these characteristics, the current legal framework is too penalizing for its practitioners. The extensive form of such equipment should be painted with fluorescent paint—a circumstance which distorts the nature of the simulations made—and the obligation to apply this type of paint makes it difficult to use it in the practice of the modality. in the same way, and also by the above too penalizing legal framework, national companies in this sector have no chance of competing within the European Union. The redefinition of the mandatory paints of airsoft devices would allow our traders to increase the volume of business in export, not to mention activities that would benefit, even indirectly, with the growth of this activity, such as hotel, restaurant and tourism. Furthermore, it is the European Union itself, through Directive ( EU ) 2021 / 555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, which determines that the Directive, and I quote, « should not apply to other objects such as airsoft devices which are not covered by the definition of “firearm”, therefore not being regulated by this Directive ». Mr President, for all this reason, the arrival follows the petitioners' request to amend the legislation on the practice of the sport mode of airsoft and equipment used in the same mode, known in the legal regime of arms and ammunition as "reproductions of firearms for recreational practices", in the two forms proposed here, which are the amendment to the current legal regime of arms and ammunition and the creation of a new legal regime which includes the purchase, sale, rental and use of reproductions of firearms for recreational practices without current restrictions. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u255	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin to greet the more than 7500 petitioners — if I may, in the person of the first subscriber, Mr Bernardo Alexandre da Silva Venâncio — of this petition, with which they want to see an amendment to the legal regime of arms and ammunition as well as a regulation of the so-called 'airsoft mode'. As you know, at the time of the hearing, the PSD has still put some restrictions, some questions and even some doubts about your position. It is that — and allow me to make this aside — we do not say that only because we do; we like to inform ourselves, to read, to consolidate our positions properly, and we do so. Because we have done so, we have, however, presented a draft law which not only addresses the issue of airsoft, but which is more comprehensive—and that is why it is not being discussed here today—and which comes precisely to the meeting of your demands. In particular, we begin by asking that the reference to airsoft be expressly removed from the current legal regime for arms and ammunition. And we do so for a number of questions, in addition to the issue of the European directive. We are a European community, where all citizens must have equal opportunities. It was said here, during the debate, that colors are seen only by the owner himself, or that equipment can be used—as I myself at the time mentioned with some fear—to simulate real firearms. But the truth—and being me from Alto Minho, I know this—is that, if I pass from Valencia to Tui, I can use the weapons without colors, but in Portugal I can't. This puts us in a situation — especially in a country like Portugal, which is a country of tourism — which is the following: we say, every day, how well Portugal receives and which is open to receiving foreign citizens and, of course, the European Union ; but, if they are airsoft practitioners, we are no longer available to receive them, because they cannot bring their equipment. And in fact it is not understood that in an open and tolerant country like Portugal we have one of the most restrictive airsoft regimes across the European Union. A regime that requires these fluorescent paintings, in fact, exists only in Portugal. In fact, the directive mentioned here makes a reference to this Portuguese exceptionality, but does not impose it and, on the contrary, says that it does not apply to firearms. For the most part, if airsoft weapons are not fire, the regime cannot be applied to them, nor can the directive be applied to them — this is the rational thing the PSD had in this matter. The citizens of the European Union must in fact be all the same, also those who practice airsoft, because airsoft, in fact — with an increasing number of practitioners — is very important even for organisations, to promote team spirit, strategy, thinking, brainstorming. Therefore, we must look at this sport without prejudices that we often look at what is associated with — and allow me to quote — the « firearms». It's just that the weapons used in airsoft are not firearms, although they look like them. That is why we must look at this matter of sport — because that is what we are talking about, it is about sport — in a healthy and healthy way, which is how all these matters should be treated. For this reason, the PSD has accompanied, as I told you, your claim, because we think it is fair, balanced and true. Our proposal is not being discussed here today, because it also seems to us that it makes much more sense that it is being discussed in a broader way, along with the Government's diploma, which deals with other matters. The PSD has chosen to make a more comprehensive proposal, so that we are not, and forgive me - the expression - once again, here to move the law point to point-to-point, without a systematic one, without looking at it as a balanced set. So it seemed to us that only this amendment was not balanced, because we also had to look at a few more errors in the previous arms and ammunition regime, which we could not miss. You know, they count on us. Our position was clear, with the introduction of a bill. Let us hope that the Government will then also be open to review this regime carefully and accept our suggestions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u257	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u258	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the 7525 petitioners who addressed this House, requesting a legislative amendment to amend the regime governing the practice of airsoft. These petitioners complain that too many restrictions are imposed on the equipment used in this sport practice. They complain, in particular, of the need for these equipment to be painted with fluorescent colors. This is the result of Law No 5 / 2006, which regulates the legal regime of arms and ammunition. The CFP has carefully appreciated the concerns that have come to us and that, in the petition, are very clear and detailed. We understand that these should be discussed, until a review of the law of arms, and we are available for that reflection. We take good account of all the concerns that petitioners have brought us both their views on this matter, and we are available to consider what they are asking us to do here. However, I understand that the petitioners, if they could do so here, would probably ask a question, and that question would probably be addressed to the PS Parliamentary Group. It would be the following: What is the PS, the parliamentary group of the absolute majority, going to do? It is that reality is this, the correlation of forces is this. What will the PS Parliamentary Group do before these questions and requests made by the petitioners? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u259	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u260	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and thank them for this civic gesture that alerts us to a debate that, in the Book, we will follow closely and on which we will deepen our reflection. However, at the moment, we will not follow the Liberal Initiative in its proposal, because we believe that it has not yet been fully demonstrated that the drawbacks of airsoft weapons may be so large for sport practice, nor has it been shown that this inconvenience is greater than the social and collective drawback which can result from them easily confused with firearms. It is not a closed opinion, but we believe that, at the moment, it has not been fully proven that the benefits outweigh the risks, the precautionary principle commands us not to follow the legislative proposal of the Liberal Initiative for now. We are, yes, available to accompany the debate and to revisit it in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u261	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first like to congratulate the petitioners who brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic. I'm not going to repeat any arguments that have already been used here. First of all, it seems to us to welcome the contribution and the reflections that petitioners bring to a wider debate, which is that of the revision of the law of arms. The Government has submitted a bill in this regard and it seems to us that this is the forum in which this debate must be held. I believe that, within a short period of time, the Government will schedule this diploma for discussion and, in this wider debate, we will have all the availability to be able to frame these concerns and also to give them an exit in relation to a certain match with other countries, not failing to safeguard what the petitioners have recognised in the committee's own hearing: that none of them intend to question either the security or the safeguards that currently exist, because that would be even a contradiction of those who want to promote airsoft activity—and that is exactly what they propose. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems to us that the way in which the debate was introduced has been cautious, and it also seems to us that the most serious way of giving them an answer is in the context of the discussion of the law of arms, something which we may have, in a short time, in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-21.u263	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our agenda. Tomorrow our meeting begins at 10 a.m., having as a first item on the agenda an up-to-date debate required by the CFP on the « Start of the school year of basic and secondary education and higher education ». The second point is the discussion of Bill No 85 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create the database of inhibitions and removals and to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1151. This is followed by a third item on the agenda, with the discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2121, in part concerning cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions. From the fourth item on the agenda there is the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic of 2022, without the time of discussion assigned. Finally, on a fifth point, we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much for the effort and the work you have produced. The sitting is thus closed. Good for the rest of the day and until tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
