ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public and Secretary Palmira Maciel please read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos. 603 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 604 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 605 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 619 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 620 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 621 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 622 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 623 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to South Africa and Draft Law No 713 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u3	Let's, then, start our agenda... Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u4	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u6	Mr President, it is really about the conduct of the work. I would like to point out today, with particular seriousness, the episode that took place yesterday in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u7	But you weren't here! You have to say you weren't here yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u8	Mr President, this Parliament is made up of 230 Members...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u9	Yeah, but you weren't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u10	... and the session is chaired by one of us: by you, and, in replacement, by you. Vice-Presidents. The President is one of us, but he represents Parliament and he is the first among us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u11	Where were you?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u12	Vice-President Edite Estrela chaired the sitting. The event we had here yesterday, and which is profusely going through social networks and other media, was a degrading event for this Parliament, because of the respect we deserve, each of us, who deserves Parliament and, above all, who deserve the voters who voted in us. It was not just a question of disrespect. Mrs Edite Estrela, as Vice-President, was insulted in this Parliament. And the insult to which you preside at the session is an insult to each one of us, it is an insult to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u13	You weren't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u14	Or we are able to collectively reflect, Mr President, on this episode, and analogous ones that, in some circumstances, are happening in this Parliament, with source, systematically, in the same parliamentary group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u15	Ah! [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u16	...or then our lack of reflection will contribute to the degradation of democracy and the parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u17	You weren't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u18	The PS Parliamentary Group must say today, and underline this, that it will always be in the defence of democracy and the parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u19	Take a good look! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u20	And that means, today, being absolutely supportive of Mrs. Deputy and Vice-President Edite Estrela. [[PS, BE, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u21	I assume that Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, asks for the same word. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u22	Are you going to apologize?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u23	Mr President, thank you very much for giving the floor. After this speech by Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, who was not present yesterday, during the work in which the episodes... [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u24	It's to respect and shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u25	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias was not and therefore, as he himself pointed out, he had seen the video and the interventions on Facebook, or on Instagram. We will not devalue, but we will say the following: Mr President, when he is absent — for reasons of a political, institutional, personal nature, regardless of the reason — is replaced by the Vice-Presidents. That is what determines the Rules of Procedure, that is what determines the law and that is how it has been, not now, but forever. In the episode that took place yesterday, Mr President — and it is not the first, nor the second, nor the third time — Mrs Edite Estrela, in our view of the parliamentary group, was unable to refrain from being a Member of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u27	... and conducted the work not as President of the Assembly, as prime minister inter pares, as one elected by his peers to conduct work, but as if the Socialist Party conducted the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u29	Now, as we all know, the Socialist Party today has a majority in this House, but it is not the Socialist Party that leads the Assembly of the Republic. Mr President is not elected by the Socialist Party, it is proposed and elected by all Members — some voted in themselves, others did not vote in themselves, and so on. In a video which Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, if you have had the concern to go to Instagram and Facebook, you will also have seen, if you listen to Mr. Deputy and President-in-Office yesterday, Edite Estrela, say to Mrs. Rita Matias : « You are...», moreover, « the girl is quiet. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u31	I think the Portuguese who are going to see this later, or who are watching now, realize that if I turn to Mrs Edite Estrela and tell her to be quiet, it won't be very cordial for me,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u33	...it won't be too tight on my side. It will be an abuse of power, it will be an abuse of position and, above all, an indelicacy. Now, Mr President and Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, we defend both the parliamentary institution and the Socialist Party. [[PS Members' laughs.]] We have been elected with the votes of the least Portuguese, but as valid and as legitimate as yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u35	We are the third political force in this Parliament. We do not accept driving lessons or moral lessons, nor do we accept rebukes in the hands of anyone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u37	... nor do we accept that there is a primary teacher wanting to put an order in school, because Parliament is not a school. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, addressing you, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, the Arrival will always recognize when there are excesses and errors. There have already been them, mine, I think, of the parliamentary group, of all, but we certainly have already existed and certainly will continue to exist, because parliamentary life is sometimes also composed, better or worse, by some excesses. But what happened yesterday is not an excess, it is not simply a confrontation. This is, in our view as a parliamentary group, if I may say the expression, a very enormous one, a loud one, a shocking lack of impartiality, a shocking lack of ability to manage the work that Mrs Edite Estrela expresses. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, Mr President, we do not accept this repair or this criticism. The measures to be taken, Mr President, of course, will be taken as President of the Assembly of the Republic, but — look, I have never expected to say this now, and it is very hard to say that - from the heart - that Mr President should remain and not be absent from what we have, in fact, Dr Edite Estrela, to conduct the work. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u38	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, do you ask for the floor again for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the appeal I made to the Bureau was to value and qualify the parliamentary life, saying that yesterday's episode had been degrading. The episode was so degrading that it should not seek self-justification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u40	What's the explanation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u41	What we are witnessing today, Mr President, was to a Parliamentary bench in particular that, in the face of such a serious fact as an insult to a Member — in this case, Vice-President who presides at the sitting — it is not even able to admit that the standard of behaviour...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u42	What's the explanation? Oh, my God! They spend their lives calling us fascists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u43	... does not fall within the Statute of Members and the respect we must have among ourselves, within this Chamber. [[All right!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u44	Mr President, what I am asking is that the Conference of Leaders and the Conference of Presidents may bring this matter together and discuss it, in particular in the light of the Statute of Members, because, I also understood, there are 12 Members who do not only see themselves in democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u45	Hey, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u46	It's a shame! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u47	... nor freedom, but in this Parliament and in the Statute of Members. [[PSP, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u48	It's a shame! Respect the 400 000 people who voted in the Arrival! You must respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u49	Does Mr Ventura ask for the floor again for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u50	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u51	Please. I'm just asking you to hurry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u52	Mr President, I will be very brief, I realize that you want to move forward, because we have a long agenda. I just wanted to make this clear: Mr Eurico Brillante Dias does not threaten us with meetings of the Conference of Leaders, neither with meetings of the benches, nor with the Statute of Members, nor with anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u54	You're a shame, man! Don't shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u55	We, Mr President, are only subject to one rule, which is the rule of the Portuguese people, which is the national law of the Republic. That's what we're subject to.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u56	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u57	What about the Constitution?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u58	Mr President, it is very ironic that a member of the Socialist Party came to say that he felt yesterday that a Vice-President was offended, when that bench, morning and night, every day in this Parliament, in which there is plenary and committees, we are called racists, fascists and, even now, enemies of democracy. To hear Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days say that yesterday a PS officer felt offended, for us, it is not a critique, it is a medal,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u59	... because you, when they attack us, are attacking the Portuguese people, who are tired — tired! — the system which operated for 40 years in Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I want to let you...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u60	Sir, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u61	I will finish, Mr. President. I want to let you...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u62	He has already left his argument, we will not repeat the arguments ad nauseam.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u63	I will not repeat any arguments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u64	I already got the points of the two. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u65	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. They can be certain of one thing: they can threaten us with what they want, with the meetings they want, with the Statute of the Members, with the Rules of Procedure, with the devil they carry, but we will not be silenced. Learn this: you won't shut us up! [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u66	It's April 25th!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u67	That's it! I'm glad you're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u68	Assuming that no other parliamentary group wants to speak on this issue, here is what I have to say. Firstly, of course, I will take this matter to the Leaders' Conference, and 'this subject' is not this particular episode—which, in my view, is particularly serious—but it is a succession of behaviours that challenge our Rules of Procedure and the conditions under which free and plural political debate can be held. This debate has as its condition that we are all tough when necessary, from a political point of view, but respectful of each other, and that we use political arguments, but not personal insults, because it only insults those who have no other argument to give. Secondly, I would also like to remind all of you and all of you. Members who the President-in-Office has all the powers and also all the duties and responsibilities of those who preside over the Assembly of the Republic. There is no one in this Bureau who has not been elected for this purpose by his peers. All decisions we have taken are liable to complain to ourselves or immediately to appeal to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u69	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u70	Those who do not agree with any decision taken by the President, or by the President in effect only have to complain to themselves and, if their complaint is not answered, they have the right to appeal to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u71	It has a lot of effect! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u72	Therefore, there is no condition of greater democracy, of greater equality, of greater parity than this. Thirdly, I must say that the two Vice-Presidents who are in office have exercised their very demanding functions, even because of the circumstances in which they exercise them, in an absolutely exemplary way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u73	Pff, you haven't seen! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u74	So when you question any decision or behaviour of the Members. Vice-Presidents, it's like I'm directly calling into question a decision or my behavior. Finally, I would like to say that it is therefore the duty of the President of the House to conduct the parliamentary work, and I would like to quote, « to maintain order and discipline, as well as the safety of the Assembly, so that it can require and use the necessary means and take the measures it considers appropriate».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u75	It's the police! Are you going to call the police to pick us up?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u76	And that's what I'll do if the circumstances force me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u77	Get them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u78	Let us, then, now enter our agenda, the first of which is the general assessment of the Bill No 55 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the control and supervision of critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation in operation under the influence of alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Frederico Francisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the civil aviation sector, the operational safety of air navigation, as well as that of goods and third parties to the surface, is of particular importance and this sector is one of the most regulated. Among the various rules in force, those that prohibit aircraft personnel or other associated personnel from performing functions under the influence of alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances that may compromise the exercise of such functions safely and appropriately. in this regulatory framework, European Commission Regulation ( EU ) 2018 / 1042 of 23 July, which entered into force in August 2020, provides for obligations for Member States and operators with regard to the control and control of alcohol and psychoactive substances consumption and is of particular importance. This proposal for a law seeks to ensure the necessary and indispensable framework in the internal legal order and the implementation of this European Regulation. Concretely: while there is legislation at both Community and national level establishing the prohibition, as well as aeronautical and other related personnel, of performing functions under the influence of alcohol, narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, it is necessary to clarify at national level the respective control and supervision regime. In other words, it is important to clarify the type of tests to be performed, the equipment used and the definition of the alcohol rate in the blood from which it is considered that the examiner is under the influence of alcohol, the type of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances subject to evaluation and the minimum concentration values. In the definition of the new scheme, a tendency is adopted to be matched with the scheme applicable to the road sector, which has already been well-experienced. In addition, the supervisory bodies, the security forces — in particular the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the PSP ( Public Security Police ) — are the same as those operating in the road and are therefore already well-acquainted with the procedures for the control of alcohol and psychotropic substances as well as their equipment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation subject to control and supervision actions under this scheme, this includes all persons who may endanger the safety of civil aviation if they do not fulfil their obligations or perform their duties in an inappropriate way. The same applies to aircraft crew, remote pilots of unmanned aircraft, aircraft maintenance personnel, but also air traffic controllers, aerodrome traffic information agents, flight operations officers and those responsible for carrying out safety checks against illegal interference in civil aviation and any other personnel operating in the air traffic area. The prohibition on the exercise of functions under the influence of alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances is also clarified in this diploma. Alcohol is considered under the influence of those who present alcohol rates in the blood equal to or greater than 0, 2 g/l or who, after examination carried out in accordance with this law, is considered as such in medical reports. In addition, the drugs and psychotropic substances evaluated and their minimum concentration values required for positive results confirmation examination are explained. As regards supervision and the type of examinations, the establishment of the duty to submit examinations and the obligation to carry out examinations in the event of a serious accident or incident is highlighted. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] This diploma also establishes the obligation of information to the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ), the counter-ordering regime and the necessary amendments to the Criminal Code to establish that regime. I therefore reiterate the urgency of the adoption of this diploma, which is essential in order to ensure, in the internal legal system, the implementation of Community law, as a fundamental duty of the Member States, taking all the measures necessary for this purpose. thus, the Government takes this diploma into consideration by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u80	Mr. Secretary of State has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here today, the Government is bringing us today the discussion of the establishment of a legal regime applicable to the control and supervision of critical personnel for civil aviation. This scheme meets the practices recommended by the European Aviation Safety Agency. We know that companies have their own rules, but in view of these recommendations, in our view, the questions are not about the legitimacy of the creation of this regime, but about its monitoring and supervision. From the point of view of applicability, there is, in our view, a matter that was out of the Government's proposal, and we wanted to see why. They define that workers with a blood alcohol rate equal to or greater than 0, 2 g/l are prohibited from exercising functions, which is often accompanied by the prohibition of alcohol consumption within 8, 10 or 12 hours before the flight in other proposals. Although we recognize that the person concerned may still be above the limit defined, the European Aviation Safety Agency recommends that no alcohol be consumed within 8 hours before the flight. However, we have found that this recommendation is out of line with the Government's proposal and we would like to see why. In addition, we also ask how they intend to monitor aviation personnel, in particular in the form of a complaint provided for in the proposal, and are considering promoting other forms of supervision, such as random flight screening, and above all follow-up and even referral to support the consumption of substances such as alcohol or other active substances.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u82	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u83	Talk about the commission of inquiry!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u84	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the transposition of this regulation into the internal legislation was made in line with Community rules. Monitoring and monitoring of this scheme will soon be carried out by the European Aviation Safety Agency and, at the internal level, in conjunction with the road system. In any case, since this proposal is now coming in, Parliament will then be free to introduce the amendments and clarify the issues it considers necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u85	They could have called a meeting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u86	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u87	Mr President, as has been mentioned, there is a set of rules that prohibit aircraft personnel and others from performing functions under the influence of alcohol, narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances that may compromise the exercise of these functions in a safe and appropriate way. in this sense, there is an entire legal framework, at the level of health and safety at work, of these same issues, such as a practice of control and supervision of critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation, as there are occupational health measures for other workers, in other functions and professions of increased risk, for themselves and for third parties, if exercised under the influence of alcohol, narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. As one of the most regulated sectors at international, European, national level, the Government justifies the presentation of this bill with the need to create a legal regime that is clear and appropriate, which also confers more legal certainty on its recipients and on the supervisory authorities and which clearly defines the rules applicable to the control and supervision of staff with critical functions, including aspects such as the examinations to be carried out, the equipment used and the concrete definition of the alcohol rate in the blood from which it is considered that the examiner is under the influence of alcohol. In addition, Article 292 shall be added. o -A to the Criminal Code, with the criminalization of the exercise of functions in these circumstances and under these effects, as well as amending, accordingly, other articles of the Criminal Code. And in this same sense, the National Civil Aviation Authority, through an opinion issued, considered that this proposal was necessary to ensure, in particular, how the enforcement of the legislation is carried out, as regards controls associated with the monitoring of the various consumptions. But it is important to look carefully at the other opinions, insofar as they draw attention to issues that should be taken into account in the following process of specialty. From then on, in addition to other matters of harmony, consistency and legislative correction which must be included in this process, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy must have made it clear that, in the presentation of reasons for the diploma, the grounds which led to the establishment of a new criminalization and the adoption of a quantitative limit which is divergent to that which is enshrined for the crime, already provided for in the Criminal Code, of driving vehicles in a state of drunkenness. On the other hand, the Air Traffic Controllers' Union also made a contribution on the proposal, and it is not opposed, of course — as we do not oppose ourselves, too — to the objectives proposed by the law, but referring to several aspects, among which it should include provisions which would take account of the voluntary programmes for the prevention of the consumption of psychoactive substances and alcohol in companies, which already exist, reflecting that the philosophy of these programmes, based on recovery, has proved to be much more effective than punishment and that international trends have precisely promoted this same voluntary cooperation, rather than forced imposition. It also draws attention to another aspect which seems to us to be evidenced, which is the rate of alcohol being defined in 0, 2 g/l, given that, according to what has been applied, prevention programs that are being put into practice do not admit any rate, or admit zero rate, which, on the other hand, in other opinions is also raised as positive, insofar as the so-called'slow-alcohol metabolisers', even if there has been no behaviour of infringement, can still reveal traces. The Portuguese Labour Medicine Society also made a contribution that contests the proposal, insofar as it believes that the objectives in question could be achieved without recourse to measures they consider offensive to rights, freedoms and guarantees. The simple transposition of the road safety regime is in response. But what we are most concerned about is that, in fact, it raises the issue of this proposal to have a scope and a meaning in which — and I am going to mention — « police rights are given to those who are not police, clinical rights are given to those who are not clinical and are given unacceptable rights of discrimination and indiscriminate labour harassment on workers». I believe that we should carefully reflect and analyze these same reflections. In conclusion, the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD) says that it is necessary to clarify some expressions that are not in line with the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) and the Medical Order emphasizes that expressions are used that without their implementation may be misused and harm the doctor unfairly. Therefore, we believe that, in the specialty, this project has much to improve, and in this sense we will try to collaborate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u88	I have to inform the House that I have let Mrs Deputy expound her argument freely, since the noise conditions in which she had to make her speech were unbelievable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u89	This PS malt is always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u90	Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The bill we are discussing today, presented by the Government, aims to move on to control the consumption of alcohol, drugs and psychotropics in aviation, with the criminalization of these behaviors. With the current law, driving a car under the effect of alcohol can be considered a crime, but piloting an airplane under the effect of the same substances no longer. This duality makes no sense. Safeguarding safety in the aviation sector is particularly important, and that is why we will not fail to follow this initiative, despite all the improvements that must be made, in particular. However, we must not fail to point out that in the aviation sector, and specifically in security, the Government has no recommended history. Therefore, as we learned in December last year, through the report of the Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves and Railway Accidents, NAV's supervision (Air Navigation of Portugal) is seriously flawed. We have learned, for example, that the NAV did not comply with the policies relating to mandatory and voluntary reporting of security incidents. In January of this year, another news that demonstrates this executive's de-government in this area: since 2012 the NAV has been almost three years without president; and since Alexandra Reis's departure, the reality is that NAV has not yet had president. Since it is certain that the NAV has had a history of enormous proximity to the Socialist Party — with several appointees with professional or even family ties to members of the Socialist Party — we question what the government's difficulty in choosing a new president for the NAV. In fact, if the list of options for NAV president is limited to those close to the PS, recruitment becomes difficult. Unfortunately, as we have seen in several cases, as is the case with TAP, we know that proximity to the Socialist Party goes in the opposite direction to safeguarding public interest, institutions and taxpayers. Finally, in May 2022, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency carried out an audit of the air operations area in Portugal, raising a non-conformity to the Portuguese State for failure to comply with European Union law. As a result of this audit, this agency set 31 March 2023 as the deadline for the Portuguese State to publish the proposed law under consideration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today is 13 April 2023. The Government has not been able to present its bill to Parliament in due course, it has not been able to comply with European laws, which were already in Portugal since 2021. Once again, the Socialist Party and the Government show their incompetence and inability to govern. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u92	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u93	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government today brings the discussion of a bill which seeks to establish a legal regime applicable to the control and supervision of critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation under the influence of alcohol, narcotics or psychotropic substances. People who work in the field of civil aviation perform functions that require a degree of concentration and effort demanding and intransigent, which does not sympathize with any facilitation. Any atypical factor, such as the use of alcohol and drug use, which undermines the real capacity and ability of these professionals, especially pilots and flight personnel, to carry out the necessary tasks during the operation of an aircraft is an invitation to disaster and a real risk to the human lives involved. Specifically in the aviation sector, security is fundamental. It must not be forgotten that airport operations, especially aircraft piloting, constitute highly demanding cognitive and psychomotor tasks, being professionals exposed to various sources of stress and complex technical problems that must resolve with maximum speed and effectiveness. This bill responds to the need for a clear and demanding legal regime, which punishes these behaviours in criminal and counter-order national protection, creating mechanisms for control and supervision of critical personnel for civil aviation, which is, in fact, already taught, in their vocational training, in safety matters on board and in airport operations. All those involved should, without exception, have a system of living that enables them to work safely in these operations. Although this bill does not raise many reservations, we would still like to point out that the notion of critical personnel for civil aviation security is densified in the proposal under consideration, dealing with a closed cast, only with the exception of any other staff that circulates in the area of aerodrome movement, which seems correct to us in order to predict other possible professional groups operating there. We can talk about NAV, where socialist families, as always, are first. Aviation and the Socialist Party are things that do not agree. [[Congrats from the CH.]] However, in view of the need, in this particular area of civil aviation, to use, in the exercise of its functions, maximum diligence and zeal for the protection of lives and goods, to respect behaviour in accordance with the requirements of these professional activities and strict compliance with the operational rules and standards issued by the Portuguese and international official authorities is a technical solution with which we agree. from the wording adopted, it seems to us that it will be sufficient for the fulfilment of the legal type of crime, on the objective side, the presence of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or products with a similar effect disturbing physical, mental or psychological fitness in the body of the agent — evaluated in accordance with Articles 3. o, 13. it's 17. that of the proposed law - it is not, as far as one perceives, necessary that the detection of these substances affect the conditions of the exercise of functions in security, on the subjective side, and that at least a negligent conduct will be required. However, would it be useful, important and interesting for judicial operators to clarify this idea: is it not necessary for the presence of these substances to objectively affect the exercise of these functions in security? The proposal is an interesting legislative instrument to ensure that these critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation do not put at risk, because of the adoption of unacceptable behaviours in their professional activity, the safety of the lives and material goods entrusted to them, as well as the discipline and enforcement in the climate of certainty of their duties. We must also not forget the people who work in the control towers. The proposal also contributes to safeguarding public confidence in air transport, as well as to the image of companies operating in this area, sometimes so badly abused. We shall vote in favour of this proposal. However, we will not fail to pay attention to the objectives in question and to its discussion to improve this project. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u94	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister : The diploma in this debate is an update to European standards and, to a large extent, to standards already applied on the ground, as it has also been recalled by the Union of Aviation Workers and Airports, SITAVA. Therefore, from this point of view — as we see from the debate we have had — it deserves our agreement, because it is a matter of passenger safety and crew safety, of everyone's safety. When it comes to transposition, the problem is not so much of harmonisation between European legislation and Portuguese legislation, but between different aspects of European legislation, in particular harmonisation with the General Data Protection Regulation. The opinion of the National Data Protection Commission reminds us precisely that it is necessary to clarify the meaning in which the term « automated data processing systems» is used, and for this it will certainly serve the work that we will develop in the field of expertise, for which the Free is available. Therefore, at this time of debate, in general, we should only express our support for these security measures to have this incremental update and we can heal any doubt between this legislation and the GDPR in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u96	So no one hits?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u97	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Pereira de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u98	So no one hit the palms? Not a PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u99	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Ex.mas Sr.as and Mrs. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u100	What about the palms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u101	When they're done, I'll go on. [[Pause.]] This proposal for a law is based on the civil aviation sector and the operational safety of air navigation, as well as the protection of goods and third parties to the surface, assuming particular importance for aviation safety. There is a wide range of rules at national, international and European level applicable to this sector, which is characterized as one of the most regulated. Although national and Community legislation establishing a ban on aeronautical and other related personnel is numerous, there is a legal vacuum at national level regarding the control and supervision regime. It is an empty matter that it is necessary to supply through the creation of an own, clear and appropriate national legal framework which confers legal certainty on its addressees and on the authorities carrying out their supervision, including the examinations to be carried out, the equipment used and the definition of the alcohol rate in the blood from which an examiner is deemed to be under the influence of alcohol. It is therefore necessary to prohibit the exercise of functions by staff who have a blood alcohol rate equal to or greater than 0, 2 g/l, which is already provided for in Article 70(2)(f ). that of Decree-Law No 289 / 2003 of 14 November 2003 in its current draft with regard to crew members of aircraft, also expected as acceptable means, approved by the European Aviation Safety Agency, in Annex 4 to Commission Regulation ( EU ) No 965 / 2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures for air operations. The option to maintain the alcohol rate of 0, 2 g/l is supported by scientifically proven data. Indeed, the application of zero tolerance would constitute a manifestly disproportionate and penalizing restriction of the recipients of the norm, because there can easily be traces of alcohol in quantities less than 0, 2 g/l, without any consequences on brain function and can be said that the safety of the flight is not affected, leading, on the other hand, to the detection of numerous positive cases without any practical or pedagogical usefulness. A rigorous legal regime is therefore proposed in terms of criminal and counter-ordering framework with the definition of instruments for the control and supervision of critical personnel in the civil aviation sector based on scientific reliability and medical ethics, in order to ensure the operational safety of air navigation. In the course of the process of creating this diploma, numerous entities, such as the National Data Protection Commission, the Superior Council of the Magistrates, the Order of Physicians, the ANAC and also the Legislative Assemblys of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, are heard, being transversal the idea that such legislation is fundamental and should be implemented as soon as possible, this position is also supported by several political forces. An example of this is the opinion of the Medical Order, which states: « This bill is of great importance for safeguarding aviation safety, in particular with regard to the commercial transport of passengers. The articulation, now analysed, from the point of view of aeronautical medicine, ensures an effective and balanced approach to the problem, according to the current knowledge on this matter, so the opinion that we have been asked for is in favour of its implementation. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Supreme Council of the Magistracy, in turn, states that the legislative project in question gives rise to legitimate legislative policy options, not offering major repairs. However, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is available, as a matter of fact, for the necessary amendments. In the criminal context, it is criminalized the exercise of functions by critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, adding to the Penal Code an article, 292 o-A, and amending Articles 69. o is 101. the Criminal Code, adopting them to new incrimination. The typification of an autonomous type is of great relevance. This is an abstract danger crime, sufficient for the filling of the type to merely endanger the protected legal good. This legal framework implies careful protection of collective interests, without prejudice to the principles of individual autonomy and self-determination, justice and confidentiality, which are pillars of a democratic society. This is therefore an initiative involving broad consensus, both between the various recipients and between the various political forces, being fundamental to the safety of all of us and not undermining any rights, freedoms and guarantees. Moreover, this proposal is indispensable in order to ensure in the domestic legal order the implementation of Community law as a fundamental duty of the Member States, and therefore there is no doubt as to the absolute need for its approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u102	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u103	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This Government initiative is summarising, I believe, a very simple phrase. It is a matter in which, generally speaking, everyone agrees, because it makes sense that those who have responsibilities in the operation of aircraft must be subject to a set of controls on their own capabilities, to ensure that they are not under any kind of influence of alcohol, of any drug, etc. It is a guarantee for the people who use these aircraft themselves. From this general principle, the Government submits a bill, and in the various opinions a set of reservations on its operationality is identified. I believe that this is the most formal summary: the Government has not properly done its work to bring a robust bill to this House of the Republic, a proposal which would be sufficiently capable of, from a principle that is unifying, materializing a practice that was also unifying. And hence comes the consequence: no one will be against this proposal, but we will all have, in our specialty, various reasons to improve it. from the Left Block, so will it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u104	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u105	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The government continues to legislate late and late, and the initiative under consideration is another example of the slow legislative nature of this government. At least two years ago, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are required to move forward with this legislation in order to ensure compliance with European civil aviation standards, in particular the Regulation of 2021, which provides for obligations to control the consumption of alcohol and narcotics. The lack of implementation of this Regulation led even to the lifting of a non-conformity to the Portuguese State, given the failure to comply with European Union law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u107	In question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, is the audit carried out in the areas of air operations in May 2022 by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency. Ladies and gentlemen. Members are still well aware of the serious failures in the air traffic control of the airports of Porto and Ponta Delgada in 2021 and 2022, which called into question the safety of workers and aircraft and which, fortunately, only had serious consequences for mere "exceptional incidents", as referred to in the inspection report; or the tragedy of the Germanwings aircraft, which was deployed in the Alps in 2015, causing the death of 150 passengers and which pushed the creation of European standards for security reinforcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u109	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is therefore urgent to move forward in Portugal with the creation of a legal regime which is clear and rigorous in terms of criminal, counter-ordering framework, as well as the definition of a set of control, monitoring and prevention instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u111	Instruments that shall apply to aircraft crews, personnel affected by their maintenance, air controllers and all other employees operating or circulating in the airport movement area. [[PSD applause.]] It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Members, move forward with the criminalization and prohibition of the exercise of these functions under the influence of alcohol and narcotics and establish criminal sanctions for their non-compliance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we recall that there is currently no autonomous criminalization of this conduct in our legal system, but a mere supervision which has been carried out by Portuguese companies with aviation pilots or air controllers. One thing, as we know, is that pilots under the effect of alcohol or drugs are being penalized internally by airlines, another thing is to commit a crime and be penalized, which is what this initiative intends.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u113	There's an urgent need, ladies and gentlemen. Members, moving away from the internal regulations of companies and from the mere recommendations for the law and from the allocation of criminal responsibilities to those who are performing these functions under the effects of alcohol or drugs, establishing that those who refuse to submit to evidence for the detection of these substances are in danger of a crime of qualified disobedience. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite our agreement with the objectives of this initiative, we believe that there is still a long way to go in the field and that there are numerous areas to improve. From that point of view, the ‘critical’ foreignism present in the diploma should be replaced by ‘essential’ personnel for the safety of civil aviation. We also have serious doubts about some technical aspects regarding the measurement and rate of alcohol in the blood, of 0, 2 g / l, when companies in Portugal already demand a rate of 0 % at the moment. We also have doubts about the scientific studies that led to the establishment of the table attached to the diploma with the minimum drug values required for the confirmation examination, these doubts that are supported by the repairs of some opinions, such as the opinion of the Air Traffic Controllers Union, given the specificities of the functions that are performed in civil aviation and which, in our view, lack further improvement and technical clarification in the specialty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also worth mentioning the opinion of the CNPD, which recommends clarification as to how it is used in Article 36. o, the expression « optimized data processing systems ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members referred to the main rules and improvements to be made in the legal regime now presented — late — by the Government, must do the analysis of the merit and the importance of the proposal. There is no doubt that security issues, in all their dimensions, with a view to strengthening prevention, are assumed as one of the fundamental pillars for the protection of the human dimension and for the greater or lesser economic and tourist competitiveness, in particular in any region in the country or in the contemporary world. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this amendment is of absolutely vital importance to the entire national territory, with particular relevance to the autonomous regions of Madeira and the Azores given their geographical and architectural characteristics—because the airway is, par excellence, used by people at leisure, at work and so often in urgent health situations—and by the common and mandatory technical scales that these regions involve. We regret once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the late way in which the Government presents this initiative to us, which is of the greatest relevance, and all the enormous work that we will still have to do in the specialty, and which will certainly not be sympathetic to the urgency that has been advocated here and the deadline that we will have to comply with, 31 May. We therefore regret once again that the Government also does not have the ability to properly legislate in matters of this relevance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u114	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u115	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regardless of the comments on the speed at which the Government legislation and the time at which this diploma comes here, I welcome the consensus that exists on the objectives, the importance, the necessity and the urgency of approving this diploma, which meets the need to adapt national legislation to Community law. Regardless of this need for harmonisation with Community law, I believe that we will also agree that it is inconceivable that the civil aviation regime may be less demanding than that applied to the road sector. In particular, so far, for example, the monitoring system or sanctioning regime applicable to these controls in the aviation sector has not been specified and densified in the law. Therefore, this diploma clarifys and densifies this issue. The values adopted in relation to the limits correspond to the recommendations of the European Aviation Safety Agency and the numerous opinions that have been received and the numerous entities that have been heard. The opinions were generally favourable and positive in terms of objectives and importance. Of course, there are repairs and considerations to be made. Many of them have been taken into account by the government and some of them will be taken into account in the work that Parliament will do in the specialty. In particular, there were several Mrs. Members who talked about data protection. Therefore, there is concern about data protection and there is a chapter in this proposal for a personal data protection law. Regardless of all this — of the contributions received and incorporated, of those received and not incorporated, and of those still to be received, which the various parliamentary groups bring in speciality — Parliament is, of course, sovereign in doing what it understands with this proposed law that the Government submits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u116	So let us end the item on our agenda. We move on to point two, in which the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 60 / XV / 1 is concerned. a ( PCP ) — Amends the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code) and 698 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Amends the temporary work regime and strengthens mechanisms for combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation. To present the PCP project, Mr. Manuel Loff has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm making time for the benches to re-arrange. [[Pause.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The whole new generation of labour legislation imposed for more than 20 years by the right-wing governments and the Socialist Party had a very obvious objective in Portugal, as in the capitalist world: to generalize precariousness, to degrade working conditions to the bone and to attack labour and social rights. In short, try to domesticate those who work. It is purely ironic that the Government has called « decent work» resulting from the last amendment to labour law, negotiated only with the UGT (General Workers' Union ) and with the patronage, when there are such offensive standards of the dignity of work as the use of precarious work and, within it, temporary work. These are standards that allow for the embarrassment and facilitation of dismissals, the maintenance of unregulated working hours, hourly banks and adaptability, aspects that have serious consequences in the articulation between personal, family and professional life. The PS’s theimosia was maintained to join the right in defending the expiry of collective bargaining and the refusal to restore the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker. Is it difficult to understand the serious consequences that both standards have for the conditions under which workers are forced to negotiate wages, schedules and working conditions? It is estimated that there are around 1 million precarious workers in Portugal today. Within these, the data point to a significant increase in the use of temporary work in 2022, compared with the previous two years. Since the introduction of this regime in our country, temporary work companies have perceived the wide range of opportunities that arose to accelerate the process of fragile labour relations through the reduction of labour costs and the weakening and destabilization of labour relations through the compression of wages and rights. The most cynical of all this is that temporary workers (TTTs) are openly offering themselves to undertakings that hire them, to the so-called 'user companies' of this fragile workforce, to exercise, and I quote, a document of their association, 'the power of authority and direction over the workforce', thus disresponsibility of users and their accumulation of profits, too. The use of ETTs for recruitment of workers who meet the permanent needs of user companies has changed from the exception, the rule. Precautionary work is unacceptable. It is a factor of instability and social injustice, and we know how it compromises the development and productive profile of the country. Precautionary is not an inevitability. It is employment with rights that represents a condition and a factor of progress and social justice. We have today, and once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to decide which way we want to go to the country: to continue to do work, increasingly, an inferno to which workers feel obliged, disrespected every day in their rights — i.e. the path of aggravating exploitation — or to choose the path of value of work, protection of employment with rights. Today, the CFP brings back to the discussion the limitation of the use of temporary work and the strengthening of workers' rights, in particular the reduction of the eligibility of contracts for temporary work use; the restriction of the grounds for the temporary employment contract; the reduction of the duration of these contracts; the reduction of the duration of the temporary work contract; and the appreciation of the living and working conditions of temporary workers. Almost half a century after 25 April, it is urgent again to promote employment stability, to fulfil and enforce the right to work and to safety at work, as provided for in the Constitution, ensuring that a permanent job corresponds to an effective work link, ending all forms of precariousness. Today, once again, the PCP proves which side it is and which country wants to build. Yesterday, like today, we know where we came from and where we want to go, always with the workers, their rights and the progress of Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u118	To submit Bill No. 698 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, now has the word Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The use of temporary work is increasingly a problem and a rule, particularly in relation to situations of exploitation of work, but not only. In fact, there is a recent history of legislative changes, with regard to temporary work. In 2016, by initial proposal of 2015 from the Left Block, the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work and the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary workers was amended. These amendments, at the time, had as their primary objective the accountability of the entire contract chain for the violation of workers' rights, for their claims and social charges, and for the payment of their fines. The objective was, in a work, company or agricultural holding, the undertaking that uses temporary work cannot invoke that it has no responsibility or claim to be unaware of what is happening there. At the time, it was an important change that not everyone followed, and that naturally left the employers' confederations quite restless, that at the time they launched a revealing statement of the feeling, so far, of the absolute impunity of so many companies. In fact, we have the case of Odemira and the history of labour exploitation as just one example, perhaps the most serious, of the use that is still made of the use of this kind of work mode. We have achieved some important advances at the time, but we have never given up in deepening workers' protection measures and limiting the use of temporary work and outsourcing, which is, unfortunately, the rule in too many services and sectors of activity, including those in which it has no justification. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were talking about the cultural sector. What is the meaning of outsourcing, other than the precariousness of workers and the complete deresponsibility of contracting entities? But we can talk about another example, as is the case with energy companies, as is the case with EDP ( Energy from Portugal ). Both shopkeepers and call centers are not employees of this company. It doesn't make any sense, because they lend — some, decades ago — service to the same company, in the case of EDP, but they choose, and they continue to be able to use, temporary work and outsourcing. More recently, the Dignified Work Agenda has brought about changes in the schemes under discussion today, some of which are relevant, such as the extension of collective labour conventions — the possibility of this extension — to outsourcing workers. It's important. But, as we also said at the time, in our understanding, it is still far from what is necessary to profoundly alter the working relations that are created with the use of temporary work and the provision of service, because this resource — this possibility of recourse — continues to reproduce all kinds of attacks on workers' rights, also on their incomes and continues to perpetuate forms of precariousness which are not acceptable. That is why we are proposing three essential matters today. First, limit the grounds for the use of temporary work. As you are, gentlemen. Members, the law continues to allow companies with any kind of service to allocate everything, or almost everything, to these companies, which is clearly not justified. Secondly, we propose, even more significantly, to reduce the number of possible renovations and, finally, to deepen the accountability of all those involved. Mrs. Members, it is urgent to break successive chains of temporary employment contracts, concluded by one, two, three days, or 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours — as in the Sao Paulo National Theatre — under an apparent legal framework, which aims only to satisfy permanent needs, thereby violating workers' rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u120	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor to speak in the debate on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The abuse of the use of temporary work enterprises, for the recruitment of workers who respond to the permanent needs of user companies, is unfortunately a reality that we cannot neglect. They are known in cases where the worker is hired by a temporary work firm, intermittently — at intervals of 15 or 20 days — by means of different temporary work contracts, on different grounds of justification, to perform the same functions, together with a user entity, which has just subverted this model. There is the specific case of the temporary worker, who has been at the service of a company, through 67 temporary employment contracts and their employment contracts, for about seven and a half years, to perform the functions in place of several absent workers. However, this type of misuse of the legal figure effectively demands some reflection around the sanctioning apparatus that the temporary labour law presents as a possible answer to this problem. However, the solutions presented here by the CFP, in addition to insufficiently substantiated, seem to offend constitutionally enshrined rights, including the right to free private economic initiative. Otherwise, let us see: in cases where the temporary working company is not licensed, it provides for the PCP that the temporary workers of that company become permanent workers of the user company, as opposed to the current law, which provides that they pass on to permanent workers but to the temporary working company itself, as would be logical. In addition, the CFP does not require the requirement that there be a reconciliation between the temporary working company and the user undertaking, in order to circumvent the lack of licensing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u122	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u123	In other words, the user company can be penalized, with the integration of that worker into its picture, without knowing that it had been made available to it irregularly. With regard to the Left Block, the legislative initiative translates even greater animosity than that of the CFP, against temporary work enterprises, private employment agencies and their users, and this is based on the working relationships established in the intensive agricultural holdings of the Alentejo Coast, with all the developments that this problem has encountered. The Left Block has proposed the accountability and penalization of the entire chain that uses outsourcing and temporary work, which it also calls « forced labour and trafficking in human beings», which seems to us to have nothing to do with the legal relationship of temporary work. It concerns, yes, crimes associated with phenomena of migration and reception of immigrants. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival rejects ideological prejudices with which the extreme left looks at labor relations, placing employers against employees. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It should be remembered that in all countries where the Marxist economic model has been implemented, poverty and poverty have spread by the population. See the case of Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea or the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u124	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u126	On the contrary, we understand that it is possible to reconcile the interests of all, whether at the base or at the top of the pyramid, so we do not demonize the temporary working relationship. There may indeed be situations of abuse, which must be monitored and punished, if necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u127	Don't! Don't get into it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u128	But it also presents its virtues, being a mechanism for responding to the flexibility needs of businesses, on the one hand, and to the needs of workers, on the other hand, with regard to family reconciliation with working life, thus contributing to job creation and participation and inclusion in the labour market. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u129	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft laws of the PCP and the Left Block alter the regime of temporary work, subjecting to the ninth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009, which approved the Labour Code. in these projects, the proposed amendments cover in particular Articles 173. o 186. the Labour Code. We welcome the initiatives, an opportunity to reaffirm once again the path taken by the PS in combating the scourge of work insecurity. But with all the deference, Mr. Members, these amendments proposed by the CFP and the Left Block are extemporaneous, confused and completely framed in a process of dialogue and negotiation which took place in this House, in the field of expertise. [[PCP protests.]] [[Dialogue! Dialogue!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u131	These amendments, now proposed, can only be understandable in the light of justification that, without any valid basis, PCP and BE have failed with Portuguese workers at the time of truth. These projects are based on Law No. 13 / 2023 of 3 April which amends the Labour Code and related legislation, within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda, which will enter into force on 1 May, and reflect an enormous instability and uncertainty that, if approved today, would destroy one of the pillars of law, that of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the child has just been born, we know that childbirth was difficult — it was months of in-depth dialogue, in the field of specialty, in which the PS did not close itself and sought the necessary consensus – but the child has not yet left maternity, it will leave on May 1st, and the Members. Members already want the child to ride up the Sierra da Arrábida by bicycle and go sailing on the Sado River during the sunday afternoons.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u134	It's just laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u135	Mrs. Members, because time does not allow much more consideration, here are some examples of the inconsistencies of your proposals, which, if approved, have contributed to the confusion, uncertainty and instability of the regulatory framework. The proposal of the CFP for Article 173 ( 3 ). the — Illicit transfer of workers, was approved in the field of specialty, with the votes in favour of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block. It has already been published in Diário da República, Mr. Members, and it will enter into force on 1 May. [[PCP protests.]] In the proposal of the CFP for Article 179. o — Prohibition of successive contracts, we have to say that paragraph 1 has been approved as a specialist a few months ago with the votes of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block. And now they bring us another text, on a legal precept that has been approved, with your votes, published in the Journal of the Republic and which will enter into force on May 1. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] But on Article 179 ( 3 ). They're going further. They are here today to discuss a drafting proposal which has been adopted unanimously in the field of specialty, a proposal from the CFP which has already been published in the Journal of the Republic and will also enter into force on 1 May. [[PCP protests.]] The proposal of the Left Block for Article 182 ( 8 ). o — Duration of a temporary contract of employment, was approved a few months ago, at the headquarters of speciality, with the votes in favour of the PS and the Left Block. It is published in the Journal of the Republic and will enter into force on 1 May. But the Left Block Parliamentary Group is now bringing us to discuss a new drafting proposal. We are therefore talking about stability and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u136	Proposals that we have already tabled and that you voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u137	I end with the proposal of the CFP for Article 185. the proposed paragraph 6 was approved unanimously in the field of specialty, plus a proposal from the PCP approved in the field of specialty. This is again proof that in this discussion the PS did not close in the absolute majority,... [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u138	... and, in opening the in-depth dialogue and seeking the necessary consensus, approved this proposal. This amendment has already been published in the Journal of the Republic and will enter into force on 1 May. But the CFP brings this proposal here today to be discussed. Is this understandable? [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u139	Well, maybe it's understandable to justify the unjustifiable, i.e. because you voted against, here in plenary, the Worthy Work Agenda. And on paragraph 12 of this legal requirement, which extends the penalty framework, the Government's proposal was adopted unanimously in the field of speciality. And what does the CFP now do with this proposal? Well, we have the proposal that the PCP now presents to us comes back, preferring to maintain the Law's wording no. 7 / 2009. You don't understand, you don't even accept, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, the Socialist Party, the Government and this parliamentary group have set a set of major priorities in regulating the labour market, with a view to promoting decent work, from the outset promoting employment and its quality, reducing precariousness and encouraging collective bargaining. The Dignified Work Agenda, which gave rise to Law No 13 / 2023 of 3 April, contains specific measures identified in the promotion of sustainable employment and in the fight against job insecurity. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that for all that is stated and taking into account that the issues covered in these projects were in broad discussion in this House a few months ago, in the field of specialty, which were approved in broad consensus, were enacted by the President of the Republic, and were already published in the Journal of the Republic and entered into force on the next day of May 1 we believe that they cannot be accepted by this bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u140	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, these two proposals which we are now discussing, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, when we appreciate their opportunity and merit, lead us — inevitably and as we have already seen — to the framework of the discussion of the amendments to the Labour Code, which the Socialist Party calls a dignified work agenda. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, she is an example of the haste and obstinacy of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u143	...that is all, less the result of the dialogue that you have mentioned here. [[PSD applause.]] And, sir, it's not just the PSD that says so. Those who say so are the various recipients of your proposals, in particular the social partners. The proof of this is that it has resulted, for example, in this flagrant and incomprehensible increase in conflict, which we have already denounced and for which we have indeed called attention, because what happens is that it is not useful to protect neither workers nor employers nor even to guarantee the social peace that we all believe is what we are defending here. Even worse, it does not serve to combat the precariousness of work that you have said, to exhaustion, and you have repeated here again — which was one of the top objectives of what you called the Dignified Work Agenda and these amendments to the Labour Code. In fact, they failed this objective, and it was due to lack of maturation and weighting. They were left behind, and the fact that they fell short of this goal, for no other reason than the Socialist Party's obstinacy and the arrogance with which its absolute majority lives, is what makes everything more intolerable. The other parliamentary groups, in which the PSD was included, have repeatedly tried to draw attention to this same rush and obstinacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u144	With 80% of the votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u145	You have not consulted the social consultation—despite the times when you use social consultation to justify everything that you are interested in—and have not consulted why? Because, if they had resorted to social consultation, they would have brought to your attention the wrong basis for many of your actions. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protest Fernando José.]] Therefore, it was in this framework where we were, I believe, already discussed this matter of temporary work. It is also true, and it does not fail to be ironic, that, in this inability to dialogue, you will say here, precisely to the former partners of management, that you have had a lot of opportunity to dialogue, but, consistently, it is the same inability with which the Socialist Party is unable to speak to teachers, with judicial officials, does not understand the demands of nurses, does not understand the demands of hospital pharmacists,... [[PSD applause.]] ...because you don't need it! instead of being ruling for the country and social peace, it is ruling for whatever the electoral agenda of the PS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u146	Therefore, in this feature, despite this, it is true that in this azáfama, the legislative process itself allows parliamentary groups to make proposals—it would be wrong! — even if there is no desire for dialogue. In fact, the PSD was able to do so, as you know, for example, on the issue of extending telework to parents with children with cancer, regardless of the age of their children. So we worked together on what we were allowed to do. We regret that we have not been able to improve any more, but that is what we already know, which resulted in the Dignified Work Agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u147	They're approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u148	in this case, of temporary work, we know, because it has also been explained—it is true— that these proposals are practically the same that have already been plunged into the specialty process that has little more than two months. So, even though it's true that the PCP project was already here, the Block project was not. But it has already been explained to exhaustion, because part of the same restrictive and restrictive bases which extrapolate the scope of what this House of the Republic voted for in this process of the Dignified Work Agenda, and you repeat, in fact, in a completely extemporaneous way and taking advantage of this populist momentum, which is to always come to say who are the good ones and who are the bad ones. Just read your proposals. They start from a basis of distrust and prejudice towards companies, which we cannot, in any way, accompany, because they reside in a cause-effect that is intellectually dishonest. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] With this, the only thing they can — I assume this is the goal — is to promote an eternal class struggle, so that your speech may seem useful. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u149	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u150	Therefore, because this is dangerous, the PSD does not reach and will not make proposals viable. That's because, sirs. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, this base of distrust and prejudice and of the underlying cause-effect of dishonesty is the basis of populism, and in the PSD we reject populism whether it comes from the left or from the right. We don't get confused! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u151	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main topic of labour law in the projects presented today, as we have already mentioned, concerns temporary contracts and the limitation of temporary contracts. This is a subject that deserves the best attention, but they point again in the wrong direction. They therefore insist on ideas that, instead of leading the greatest job creation, the most dynamic and competitive markets in order to make it possible to pay better wages and give more opportunities to anyone who wants to enter work have the opposite practical effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u153	They pay a lot less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u154	Limiting temporary work, in the sense that the left wants to do, is not a solution to combating precariousness; it is, yes, an invitation to precariousness, an obstacle to the economy. It is important to continue to remember that Portugal has one of the strictest systems in terms of labour legislation. This system is so rigid that we have to deal with the facts: the employer has high risks of hiring. What some idealize as protection is, on the contrary, a barrier, in particular to job creation. What they idealize makes the workers worse. Is stability relevant? Obviously, the stability of knowing that you can have work, that you can have conditions of choice, that you can have conditions of remuneration for an independent life, conditions of evolution and careers for anyone you want, be able to look at the horizon and be able to have prospects. Work contracts are useful in various circumstances, in specific employment policies, at the stage of setting up new businesses, in new business areas, temporary replacements or in certain peaks. And, yes, there are situations of abuse and there are situations of abuse that have to be minimized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u155	They continue to allow abuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u156	On the other hand, let us not forget that the State has supervisory bodies and has supervisory functions. It is those which must invest, it is not creating barriers to legislation. We understand that rather than complicate, it must, yes, decomplicate and enhance. What you see, here, systematically, Mr. Members, in addition to wanting to end with a way of work, it is to continue to contribute to a dysfunctional labour market and to diabolize companies. We have found that, systematically, the way companies are treated and entrepreneurs are prejudiced, is that we do not align in this speech. Continuing—I have already said and I will probably have to repeat many times here—there is a wrong association between precariousness and temporary work. The worst precaution comes from the lack of remuneration, lack of working conditions, times and abusive behaviour, lack of opportunity for change, lack of capacity for choice, lack of long-term expectations, lack of employment, stagnated economy, oppressive taxation, lack of companies that can pay more, that can pay better. And young people are the ones who end up getting more harmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u157	Surely the most vulnerable are the worst!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u158	They are more affected by the rigidity of the labour market, they are hampered by the economic crisis and increasingly entering the labour market with few prospects. Yes, companies have various contracting problems, starting with lack of resources, lack of competitiveness with international competitors, which is a theme that is pressing daily, and also because they have difficulty in risking it. The uncertainty the employer has to hire is great. Do we want to reduce work contracts? All right. We will seriously discuss a subject which is difficult to address, but which I will mention: the subject of dismissal is discussed on a subjective basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u159	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. We have to discuss difficult but important issues, such as: flexicurity, models of protection to the person and not to employment, models where employers can risk hiring, by an economy where a person who wants to say goodbye and if he wants to use elsewhere has job opportunities. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u161	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real from the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u162	Mr President, I thank the CFP and the Bloc for bringing this issue, in which we have some differences in the view of market mechanisms and how we reach the same path of greater safety from a job perspective. In our view, regulation is fundamental. There were two steps, in this Legislative Session, which were very important. On the one hand, the end of unremunerated professional internships. But we understand that, in the young people's dimension, we need to go further and, indeed, we need to end with the stages that eventually translate into a real employability, leaving young people in a rather precarious situation. So, until then, we are effectively in agreement. On the other hand, we differed from the vision we just heard, in which rigidity is confused with a lack of security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u163	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u164	... because we cannot mix these concepts, and it is important that, in the whole work context, not only the rules are well defined, as there is adequate supervision and means for the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), so that it does not confuse precariousness with the misuse of temporary work, including the stages. I mean, there's also an ideological prejudice on the right that we don't understand. In our view, we need to regulate it in good sense. The work done on the Dignified Work Agenda fell short of this need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u165	You've got another 1 minute of Rui Tavares because he's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u166	We believe that one of the major demands we have made in the State budget, which concerns strengthening the means of act, is absolutely imperative for us to combat phenomena such as trafficking in human beings and to ensure that there is no exploitation in our country, as has existed so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u167	To close the debate, on behalf of the CFP, Mr Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party accused us of failing Portuguese workers. I think this is a frankly extraordinary statement. I was asking whether to fail the workers would not, on the contrary, be, for example, when a member of the government, the Minister of Culture — which yesterday was mentioned several times — understands as an example phenomenon that a temporary work firm, hired by a public institution as a national theatre, hires a worker at the time and does so always, every time it does so, through the contract at the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u170	Is this to fail who but the workers? This is to fail those who, except the rule of law, say to pass. You called for legal certainty. Among other things, he called on the Dignified Work Agenda, and in it we found that one of the aspects that the Socialist Party has introduced, accepted and voted favourably was the limitation of renewals to temporary work, the reduction of the possibility of these renewals from six to four.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u171	I even feel sorry for the PCP workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u172	But did they end up with the possibility of these renovations? Did it happen to end the temporary work? But why, then, do we not seriously discuss the legal principle of whether or not there should be temporary work in situations where, of course, contracts of this nature cover situations where there is a permanent need for a worker? That's what's at stake. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u173	in this sense, what workers remember is that, for the Socialist Party, it is not necessary to limit the situations in which temporary contracts are still possible, and that is what our project here proposes. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes mentioned the mistrust and prejudice we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u174	Companies, point!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u175	It's very curious. I will tell you that, on my part and on our part, of course we do not trust companies that enter into contracts in an hour's time. Sure! We obviously do not trust you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u176	Distrust companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u177	Of course we are prejudiced against contracts such as those held in EDP, with workers who have been working on temporary work for 20 years. Where is the nature of temporary work?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u178	Prejudice is always bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u179	Mrs. Member, I have no problem. These prejudices, I have no doubt that we have them. I should like to know whether the honourable Member has or does not have any mistrust or prejudice regarding such situations. [[PCP applause.]] Madam Member, we have confidence in workers — especially in temporary workers — and we are fighting a prejudice, that, yes, it has its party and that it has several of these benches, of course,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u180	The gentlemen are prejudiced!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u181	... that they continue to refuse to repeal this legislation, invoking so many times the freedom of enterprise and the freedom of the market to cover truly outraged situations of any state of law and any contract of work in a democratic society, above all, of a society which, within a year, will celebrate the 50 years of democracy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u182	We now move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No. 661 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Return to rail transport users the value of the pass corresponding to the days on which transport is not provided and 666 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Include rail transport users in minimum service decisions, of Resolution Projects No 547 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government correct the failures of the National Railway Plan and review their multiannual investment plans and 548 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — By liberalising the public inland waterway transport service through the Tejo and fulfilling the obligations of the State and, in general, of the Bills No 695 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Introduction of representative of the Committee of Workers to the Boards of Directors of the Infrastructures of Portugal, SA and CP — Trains of Portugal, EP, 697 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Railway valuation and creation of the national travel programme in public public transport and 706 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the rail transport contract in order to ensure passenger rights in the event of strike. To present the drafts of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative presents today a set of initiatives, all of which are linked to public transport. If public transport is always fundamental and it is possible to ensure a set of features indispensable to the lives of citizens, it is even more pressing to reflect on it when we are in times of crisis, in times of difficulties for the Portuguese. hence also the opportunity for these initiatives we have brought. The first initiative has to do with the National Railway Plan and the proposal of the Liberal Initiative on a set of situations in which we believe that the plan presented by the Government can be improved. I'm not here in a critical perspective of this plan, I'm not even saying that this plan will not be implemented. Life tells us that normally the plans presented by the Socialist Party are not implemented, but today former Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has been... [[Rice from IL.]] ... therefore, it is not time for us to be overly critical about the plan he himself presented, when he was still a minister. Let's accept as a possibility that he will be executed. But, even if it was to be executed in the manner envisaged, there are at least two or three criticisms that the Liberal Initiative presents and that have to do with the Minho, with the connection between Barcelos, Braga and Guimarães, for which there is a solution of buses that is not effective and for which the Liberal Initiative considers that the most appropriate would be a heavy rail solution. The same for the Algarve, where metro projects also begin to appear. I already said it here: the subway is beginning to be an invasive species,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u184	It's like the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u185	...that solves, in fact, few problems of Portuguese mobility. Therefore, for the Minco and also for the Algarve, the appropriate solution should be that of heavy rail. By the way, another question has to do with the Trás-os-Montes line. The proposal of the Liberal Initiative is that there is a connection to Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, passing through Bragança and then through Zamora, connecting to Spain's high-speed line. This is the first recommendation that the Liberal Initiative brings, as a reflection of the presented plan. The second has to do with river transport in the Tejo River, which, as we all know, has consequences for millions of people in the Lisbon area, from the south bank, who, every day, face to what exists today as a solution, see their lives very conditioned. Transtejo has a disabled service, systematically deleted services, permanent labour conflicts, as we also know, and even ships without batteries, which manifestly creates difficulties, then, so that the ships can move and serve the populations. In addition to boats purchased without batteries, as well as constant suppressions, as well as constant labour conflicts, there is another issue—which was still addressed here yesterday by the Liberal Initiative and which falls within the business sector of the State—which is the total lack of transparency in its accounts. If the gentlemen. Members will make an effort to look into the accounts of recent years, and they will see that they are not available. Therefore, the first proposal of the Liberal Initiative is that there is transparency in the Transtex accounts, the second is that management information is available and the third is that possibilities for granting the service are evaluated, because the service will obviously be more effective if there is competition, and even the possibility to separate the infrastructure, maintenance and transport service itself. The third proposal of the Liberal Initiative has to do with the service of trains. Like the ladies. Members will also know, systematically there has been difficulty with the Portuguese who buy tickets to benefit from the train transport service in using this service, which is often unavailable because there have been many strikes. If we look at the month of February, almost a third — or almost half — of the days were the days when there were difficulties, because there were strikes. The State cannot resolve the labour conflict that exists in the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), but what is true is that many services are often not available. Therefore, Portuguese who use that service and buy to spend every month are prevented from using that service. What the Liberal Initiative proposes is that, at least for a question of justice—because all this, as you will understand, involves an increased set of costs, an added set of inconveniences—the value of the pass is returned to the Portuguese buying it, whenever the train service is unavailable, whatever the cause justifying it. Finally, we put forward a proposal allowing, or allowing, citizens to have a more active participation precisely in matters of unavailability of train and public transport service in the event of strikes. Today, user associations cannot participate in the process of formation of the decision of arbitral tribunals in the establishment of minimum services, and what the Liberal Initiative proposes is that they can participate in it. We are talking about, for example, an association of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, or, for example, the Sintra Line User Commission, which today cannot contribute to the decision of the arbitral tribunal in terms of setting minimum services. Mrs. Members, these are proposed directly to help the Portuguese have a better transport service. I repeat, this is fundamental, even more in times of crisis like the one we live in. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u186	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make it available on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Rocha, congratulated the former Minister of Infrastructure, Pedro Nuno Santos. I would also like to congratulate the IL, but not the ladies. Members of the IL, not to their team of legislators, because the projects they present today are not legislative initiatives, they are first legislative outsiders. Therefore, allow me to congratulate the Liberal Initiative's marketing team. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u188	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u189	They'll be transmitted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u190	They are legislative authors, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, legislative outsiders! As legislative outsiders, they are quite well done. But, Mr President, I would like to ask you about the projects you have brought and some of the situations I am going to present to you have been taken into account. About Bill No. 661 / XV / 1. did the Liberal Initiative take into account that the criteria set out in the national legal framework for the definition of compensation are in line with the current European regulation? About the Resolution Project No 547 / XV / 1. a, had the Liberal Initiative taken into account that ended last 28 February the public consultation period of the National Railway Plan? Has the Liberal Initiative taken into account that, during the public consultation period, hundreds of proposals have been received from autarchs and entities who are, of course, interested in the matter? Has the Liberal Initiative taken into account that the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ) and that the LNEC ( National Laboratory for Civil Engineering) are evaluating these proposals and that, after this process, the National Railway Plan will be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic? Do you not understand the Liberal Initiative which is, at this time, the time of the Assembly of the Republic? Mr Deputy, with regard to Bill No 666 / XV / 1. a, had the Liberal Initiative taken into account that users of passenger rail services are not independent from conflicting interests? Where the definition of minimum services is concerned, the influence of its participation in the arbitral tribunal may empty the content of the right to strike and the useful effect of this right. The truth is that the Liberal Initiative may not like strikes, but living in democracy is to live by respecting this constitutionally envisaged right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u191	You didn't ask any questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u192	Mr Rui Rocha, from the IL, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the congratulations to the Liberal Initiative communication team will obviously be delivered. I would like to say that, in fact, the Liberal Initiative has good outdoors, but those who do card measures are you and, therefore, we do not want to keep the praise of you! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u194	It was good to discuss proposals for the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u195	Cardage measures are with you, they are known for that. Keep that label, because it suits you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u196	But give me your congratulations!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u197	...is well delivered, you deserve, you are good recipients. With regard to what you have said about the right to strike, Mr President, let us become repetitive, because whenever we discuss transport, whenever we discuss some of these measures, there comes, in particular, on the side of the PS bench, any question, as if the Liberal Initiative wanted to somehow limit or have interference with the right to strike. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what has already been said by me and other Members of the Liberal Initiative: the only bench that really wanted to limit the right to strike was that of the PS, that of you, during the pandemic. The Liberal Initiative was on this side, by the right to strike, safeguarding what you wanted to limit. [[Applause from the IL.]] With regard to the other issue, which has to do with the right time, he asked whether it would be a later time, that of the Assembly of the Republic. I know! I know that, sometimes, it is the time of justice and, sometimes, it is the time of the Assembly of the Republic — we have heard a lot of this conversation in the last few days — but, Mr President, the moment of the Assembly of the Republic is the one that the elected Members, in this case the Liberal Initiative, want and wish, in which they make contributions, as I said, for reflection. I must tell you that the proposals presented by the Liberal Initiative as others that we have brought here and that are in our electoral programme are of course proposals which have also been put forward in this public consultation. So what the Liberal Initiative wants is to reinforce, in particular, that the link between Sá Carneiro and Bragança Airport and then Zamora is a connection that makes sense, because we cannot have a speech that railway and public transport are important, are useful for decarbonization, are useful to make modern Portugal and then forget that these links, like these we have presented, are fundamental to the well-being of the populations. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u198	To present the project of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mobility in Portugal is still too dependent on the use of individual transport. This brings various problems: pollution problems and their consequences in terms of climate change, maintaining fossil fuel dependence and inequality in access to all and everyone's right to mobility. In fact, over the decades, the political option was that of brutal de-investment in the railway and that of betting on the growth of the road network. If the latter option enabled several territories of the country to be linked, it was true that it was a mistake to do so at the cost of closing train stations and reducing the number of kilometres of railway line, the consequence of which was in fact the destruction of a fundamental part of territorial cohesion, of a national rail network. Having arrived in 2023, we continue, in the field of mobility, to have a long way to go. Investment in rail is on paper, but progresses with a slow pace that does not meet the pressing needs of the Portuguese territory, the environment and the population's income. We are aware that continuing to increase and improve supply is essential and I fear that it will be defended. over the last few years we have been proposing a comprehensive national rail plan that has always been rejected — in 2016, in 2019, in 2020, in 2022. So, yes, sirs. Members, there are mobility problems in Portugal and there are, yes, specific problems with the railway in Portugal: delays in the investment of the Railway 2020; slowness in expanding the national network and covering all district capitals, at least; electrification of the entire rail network; improvement of rolling stock; and even the lack of effective response to the fair demands of workers, who have obtained zero answers by the Government. We never hide these problems and, on the contrary, we have worked actively to solve them. But, in fact, none of these problems are solved by the projects that the proposed party of this agenda brought the debate. on our part, we are presenting a proposal that is not new, nor is it accompanying one side of the coin, when we talk about the valuation of rail and mobility, which is the tariff issue. We cannot continue to talk about mobility, rail valuation, without also talking about the tariff issue. After the application of the PART, the Tax Reduction Support Program in Public Transport, which was very important, few or no steps were taken besides it. at a time of inflation crisis such as what we live, with increased costs for families, it seems very relevant to us that the tariff reduction increases and responds to the requirements that were not yet covered by the PART itself. For example, it is necessary to respond to workers in longer-distance pendulum journeys or to students who are at several kilometres away from home, who, in total of their trips, did not actually have the reduction that existed in other cases. Therefore, valuing the railway is, yes, also enhancing its greater use. Railway is undoubtedly one of the most powerful tools we have in public policy to combat the effects of climate change and protect territorial cohesion in Portugal. That is why this needs to be improved at infrastructure level, it is true, and, equally importantly, it also needs to be more attractive for all and for all, at tariff level. This is the step we are trying to take today — we have already done so before — rather than responding to any other agenda that is not, in fact, the value of public transport, the value of rail, or even the defence of workers and users. It is on this path that we are and, therefore, we are presenting this project, which is currently under discussion not only in the name of rail valuation, but also in the name of territorial cohesion and in the name of public transport users, who need to deepen the tariff reduction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u200	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Hugo Oliveira spoke on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u201	Today Hugo is in great shape!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u202	You're not the mechanic anymore? Oh, my God! [[Mr Hugo Oliveira's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u203	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, I would admit that she would have more difficulty than the honourable Member in listing all the work on the ground, particularly on rail, as you mentioned in your speech. As far as delays are concerned, it is true that we too regret them, but we well know that the vast majority, if not all of them, does not have to do with the government's intervention. All these delays, which exist for the most various factors, occur for a simple reason: it is because there is work on the ground, there is much work on the ground! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH and PSD Member Jorge Salgueiro Mendes's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u205	Of course there is! It's already a billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u206	Mrs Deputy spoke about the development of the national railway and the creation of travel in public public transport. In fact, we created the PART, which was probably the biggest project and allowed a huge reduction in the costs of families using public transport. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u207	And they plummeted him for 22 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u208	This project also led many families — who had not used them in the past — to use public transport. Mr. PCP was saying that we plunged him, but the truth is we created him, and the lead we saw in this project came from the right parliament. Madam Member, in addition to these incentives, there is even more, such as the Social Passe +. For example, Article 170. the State budget for 2023 provides for the creation of the national railway pass from the second quarter of 2023, with a monthly value of up to €49, which will allow access to all regional trains.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u209	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u210	The same article refers to the presentation by the Government, together with the other transport authorities, by the end of the third quarter of 2023, of a study on the revision of the fare of railway services under public service obligations providing for simplification and the forms in which the extension of the national rail pass can be made to the other categories of services. Madam Member, without taking advantage of the proposal from the Left Block, what I ask you is whether you do not understand the Left Block which should wait for these studies to present your proposals. Does not the Left Block understand that these studies could be important for technical and economic evaluation of the proposals it presents? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u211	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u212	Mr President, Mr Hugo Oliveira, on the concrete question you asked me, on rail, the first time that the Left Block presented a national railway plan—it had about 40 pages and was therefore based on many studies, being quite extensive—it was in 2016. The one who was approved by the Government was launched only in 2021. Therefore, I believe that those who cannot expect, for example, are the populations of the interior of the country, who over the decades by political option of the PSD governments, the CDS and the PS, have seen their railway stations closed as well as the lines themselves. Mr Deputy, during the past few decades, who has made the whole country wait, wait and wait for more rail, for better rail, which actually reaches the whole territory, was not the Left Block, because the Left Block has presented these measures in time. As far as the tariff issue is concerned, we have come to present this same proposal today. In fact, this is no longer the first time we have introduced it, but it has been plummeted. Also on other occasions, in previous legislative sessions and in previous legislatures, we have come to propose the deepening of the PART — in particular in order to reach those people and those users who are in certain territories that link metropolitan areas to the inter-municipal communities, where there is a complexity of mobility to which the PART does not yet respond — but the Socialist Party has also come to chum those same proposals. Therefore, Mr. Member, who has failed the country in terms of railway, who has left the country waiting, in terms of railway, is even the Socialist Party, it is not the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u214	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u215	For what? Oh, my God! [[IL laughter and PSD MP Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal spent in a few years on a railway network with 3600 km of extension to one with 2400 km. There was a clear disinvestment in rail, in contrast with virtually all the countries of the European Union. All regions have ceased to have any railway access points and others have us very residually. There is a lot of talk, and for many years, at high speed, which is still a great mirage. Perhaps the Socialist Party has forgotten a very recent past, but we do not forget it. The high-speed railway works were already hired, but— imagine! — they had to be suspended because José Socrates led Portugal to bankruptcy and we were unable to carry this project forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u217	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u218	Incredibly, a few years after José Socrates had done this evil, also to the railway, behold, the irony of fate brings us to this guardianship, João Galamba!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u219	Jesus Christ! It's the student!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u220	This is what the Socialist Party is about, too, the railway area. The railway errors are many and are heavy. The Centre region, for example, suffers from this lack of connection. Viseu district has no railway accessibility. There is no link between two district capitals — Coimbra and Leiria — by rail.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u221	Isn't there? Oh, my God! There's the West Line!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u222	If the center of the country has these gaps, what will be the connection, by rail, between the North and the South? That is, we have a country completely stopped, completely inert, as far as rail is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u224	Still about the high speed, in the connection of Portugal to Europe, passing through Spain, of course, a question arises: how will the connection to Madrid be made, via Lisbon-Porto? What other destiny is going to be equalized? The Socialist Party has not yet come to say how it intends to do. We must not forget that Portugal's link to the rest of the European continent by rail is part of a major European Union plan, which is to have all the capitals linked by the railway line. Portugal, in addition to not having this connection, will be forgotten, will once again be lost in the tail of Europe, until it is true and known that the future will dictate that the transport of passengers and goods—mainly that of goods—is made by rail. Maritime and road roads tend to decrease and remain with very little use.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u225	The seaway? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u226	Portugal is late and will continue to be late. The new airport in Lisbon — when it's decided, let's see when! — whatever district it is, outside Lisbon, it will have to have a high-speed connection to the capital. Where is this designed? There are meetings to design a work that will probably be the country's most important infrastructure work, but the railway link between airports is not there, nor is the airport decided, nor is the railway so planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u228	We have all these contracts, associated with a poor service that CP provides to its users. They are strikes on strike: only on 1 March, between 0 and 18 hours, in a total of 985 trains, 746 were stopped; on 11 March, more than 186 were cancelled, of the 728 planned. These are two of the many examples. If it is true that workers have the right to strike, it is no less true that users, those who pay the monthly pass, those who pay the ticket, cannot be duly harmed. The CP is therefore publicly paid with the users' taxes, and these users, who pay twice—through taxes and through the monthly pass or ticket—are victims of that old expression: "They pay, but they don't walk. This is the way Portugal trains do, and so is the Socialist Government. Having said this, the Arrival presents a project in which it clearly defends that users are compensated for the days of strike, the days on which they paid and could not take advantage of this transport. We propose that this be done through a travel credit. In addition, we consider it essential that the customer provider be created, an autonomous body, which defends the interests and rights of rail transport customers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u229	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u230	Mr Hugo Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u231	It is to make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u232	If it's about the conduct of the work, please do it to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u233	Mr President, I would like to say that I will get to the Bureau, to be distributed through the banks, the map of the national rail network, given that Mr. Filipe Melo of the Arrival, does not know the national rail network, because only ignorance...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u234	Send it by e-mail!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u235	... can make it say that there is no rail connection between the city of Coimbra and the city of Leiria. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u236	What's the name of the line? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u237	The honourable Member will be pleased to identify the digital page on which this document is located and the Bureau will be pleased to share this secret with the various benches. Continuation of CH protests and PS counterprotests. Mr António Prôa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, now speaks for an intervention if the House so permits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u238	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate, following various legislative initiatives on matters relating to the public transport system, with a particular impact on rail transport, can be summarised at one point — the malfunction of public transport and the worst functioning of rail transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u240	The draft laws and draft resolutions submitted above all reveal the progressive degradation of public transport in Portugal and denounce the government's inability to counter this situation. [[PSD applause.]] Today, what is at stake is the fact that the government is failing, as in other areas, also in the field of public transport. However, millions of Portuguese are affected daily by bad service, delays, suppressions and even expectations created, but never realized. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party have spent eight years. It is enough to systematically excuse themselves with the legacy of the PSD / CDS government, even because this inheritance, that of the troika, in the constraints that caused the country, has responsible, signatures and faces of the Socialist Party and then Prime Minister José Socrates. [[PSD applause.]] It's been eight years. It is time to assume responsibility for what they have not been able to do. They had eight years to fulfill promises and expectations for public transport. these eight years have been — I find no other expression! — incompetent. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after eight years of the Socialist Party's governance, in large part with the support of the Communist Party and the Left Block, what did the Government do after all? It is almost eight years of the Socialist Government with successive promises of betting on public transport, presentations, of rail renewal proclamations, but never realized; of announcements of new trains that fear not to arrive; of ships that do not arrive and that, when they arrive, come without batteries. [[PSD applause.]] I give only three concrete examples of this government's incompetence : the railway 2020 investment plan, announced with pump and circumstance, should be completed in 2021, but will only be completed if it is in 2025 ; it was announced that the new ships for the crossing of the Tagus would come in 2020, but will only begin to arrive in 2023 and still with the unusual coming without batteries ; the new trains, announced times without account, will only start arriving between 2026 and 2029, i.e. the government, in operation since 2015, takes between 11 and 14 years to ensure new trains. That is how the socialist government, promises not fulfilled, expectations created. Worse, the invitation to use public transport, through the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, was a good measure, but then nothing was done to match the demand stimulus, that is, people have a lower price for public transport, but then they do not have transport and those who have a very bad service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u241	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u242	After eight years of the Socialist Party's governance, the questions that are being asked today are the following: has the public transport system improved or worsened? Are people satisfied? Were the deficiencies they indicated resolved? Can people trust transport, rail, river transport, road transport? The unequivocal answer is no. The Portuguese do not have the transports that the Socialist Party has promised and, less so, the transports they need. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u243	The degradation of public transport has worsened in Portugal. For those who deny reality, certainly out of shame, they can verify the permanent complaints of those who suffer with bad service: bad service, delays, suppressions, overcrowding. These complaints have increased as shown in the reports of the Mobility and Transport Authority. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the current scenario of progressive degradation of public transport in Portugal, the proposals presented today are only a palliative. The problem is indeed the incompetence of this government. The PSD advocates the increase in the rights of users of public transport and its safeguarding. The amendments and the increase of compensating guarantees for users, where services fail, deserve our attention and should be deepened, but should also be observed in order to harmonise the fundamental rights of public transport passengers, currently dispersed in national legislation. [[PSD applause.]] The involvement of user representatives in the definition of minimum public transport services should be considered in order to ensure correct representation. Regarding river transport, curiously, it was the memorandum with the troika signed by the then socialist government that provided for its concession. The failure to comply with this measure resulted in the present poor state of service rendered. On this issue, it would be useful to consider the extension of competences at the level of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area for the management of this concession. In summary, the PSD will contribute to the deepening of the discussion of some of these initiatives and will present its proposals at that headquarters. But, in fact, we do not have many illusions that they solve the problem upstream, which is the incompetence of this government which, in relation to public transport, only makes promises that it is never capable of realising. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u244	To submit Bill No. 695 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Introduction by the representative of the Committee of Workers to the Boards of Directors of the Infrastructures of Portugal, SA and CP - Trains of Portugal, EPE, now has the floor Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u245	Mr. President, Caras and Dear colleagues: The de-investment in the railway in Portugal is a national tragedy. There are sectors in which Portugal has left with delay. There are sectors in which Portugal, in Europe, has gone slower than other Member States or other countries on our continent. But, in the railway sector, we did not leave late or run slower, we decided to run back, to uninvest where we had already had rail network. This means that, on a continent probably the richest continent in rail coverage, where there is more innovation in the world, Portugal is a separate case. Today we are discussing several projects on the issue of rail, the question of workers' rights and the question of consumer rights. Some of them affect the strikes and what to do when there are strikes in the railway, i.e., taking action a posteriori. None of them affects what should be done so that there are fewer strikes, i.e. greater concordance between workers and administration. Here, this role is played by the Free Project. In many countries of the European Union, the participation of workers in the board of directors of private enterprises of a certain size or public undertakings is mandatory by law or is a common practice. This is true in Germany, France or Scandinavian countries. We have heard here, recently, the Minister of Economics said, from the government bench, that he felt until the countries where capitalism worked better were those in which the workers were represented. This is done outside the European Union. In Switzerland, for example, where the law does not oblige workers to participate in the board of directors, workers are on the board of directors of the railway undertaking. This is one of the countries with the best railways on the continent. Therefore, I appeal to the support of all parties represented in this House to Bill No. 695 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which introduces representatives of the Committee of Workers on the Boards of Directors of the Infrastructures of Portugal, SA and the Trains of Portugal, Volgo CP. It will not allow us to recover the delay or what we have done on the railway in recent decades, but, from the point of view of the organization and of the agreement between administrators and workers, it will bring us closer to what are the best tracks in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u246	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The scheduling of this debate and the very text of the IL legislative proposals that give it content must be treated as what really are: political fraud, a diversion maneuver, which continues the anti-grav operation, and especially the public anti-sector, which the IL has been carrying out throughout the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u249	Well remembered! [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] They try to coopt and manipulate the feeling of frustration and revolt of the populations and transport users in the face of the de-investment and lack of public services, so as to bring the political debate to the attack on public enterprises, including the CP, and the struggle of workers. But right now, sirs. Members of the PS do not forget that respecting the right to strike is certainly not to place restrictive measures and to attack that right, as the PS Government has been doing with teachers and judicial officials, to raise opinions rather than solve the problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u250	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u251	They try to return users against workers and workers against workers, returning... [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]] [[Pause.]] ...repeating a very old trick... [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]] [[Pause.]] Mr. President, I think I can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u252	Perhaps it is better to call Eurico to make a point of order to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u253	For me, you can and should, but you do well to expect others to give you the conditions that you clearly need. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. They try to return users against workers, and workers against workers, returning a very old trick that has been used many times in this House! They place the burden of compensation due to lack of transport specifically on the CP, even if they do not explicitly assume it, leaving all private companies outside that regime, whether they are private companies in the road sector, either by the contractual framework of railway PPPs (public-private partnerships), in which the protection to operators is safeguarded in such cases. Moreover, the mechanism they propose is simply impracticable and inapplicable: it excludes combined passes, further shielding the exception to Fertagus, and dispenses compensation if there is, I quote, « viable alternatives to other modes of transport ». It's deceptive advertising. It's political fraud. It's a lamentable manipulation test. in this anti-agree operation, if the IL says « kill », the CH says « spole ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u255	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u256	The BE and the Free have chosen to open the debate with very vaguely related proposals, so let us say, to enrich the discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u257	We're fine! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u258	The IL wants to recommend to the Government to correct the failures of the National Railway Plan (PFN), that is to say, it proposes to review something that does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u259	Is it "IL" or "IL"?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u260	It does not resolve any of the fundamental criticisms of the CFP to the current proposal of the Government's National Railway Plan and that the political debate will certainly show. As regards the so-called « national travel programme in public public transport», the name is pompous, the substance is already on its way. He tries to copy the German experience—which offered a pass of €9 to anyone in the summer months—but then he limits it, in the wrong care logic, to taxpayers of lower incomes. He speaks in the railway, but the pass is for all public transport, contrary to the proposal of the CFP, which we have already presented in the State budget, which aimed at reducing intermodal passes and a national interregional pass. As regards the concession of the public railway service, the CFP argues that the contract is public, fully public, as well as Fertagus' contract. We already know that Fertagus advocates the IL model: the State pays the trains, pays the line, pays the stations, pays the bridge and the privates exploit and extract the profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u261	And people are on the train!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u262	If the sacrosanct free competition and liberalisation are always the solution, in theory, and then, in practice, it is what is seen, i.e., the failure in electricity, fuel and housing, then in public transport is even less. In public transport, it is necessary to increase coordination and cooperation between the different parts of the system. What is needed is investment and staff hiring, transparency and autonomy of management. The gentlemen. Members may have never heard of the National Road and of what was the truly shameful abandonment of the populations of the interior, but also of the cities, right here, in the metropolitan area, which resulted from the process of degradation, segmentation and privatization of the Road. You may not know, but we know and do not forget. We know what was the result of all these promises: that there was competition, private investment, improvement of service — all lies! In fact, what the IL generally called 'working conflict' means, in fact, a struggle of workers also to defend users, to defend the quality public transport service and to hire staff to strengthen supply. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome users and transport workers from here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u263	But aren't the users workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u264	They are being forced by the government to fight because the government does not increase wages, as is possible and necessary, and because it does not increase operational response capacity, as is fair and necessary. Workers and users need concrete answers to the serious problems they face on a daily basis. It's certainly not demagogy! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u265	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The railway package that the Liberal Initiative brings us right in some things, but it repeatedly fails in others and demonstrates once again a blindness and ideological Puritanism that does not actually go to the heart of the matter. We now have a serious problem of suppression and lack of investment in rail both at urban and regional level. The government must effectively make a greater investment bet. To try to turn users against workers, to question the right to strike and to hear about privatization as if it were the holy remedy for railway problems, it does not seem to us in any way the way. Railway is an important path, whether from a social point of view, from the point of view of mitigating the asymmetries that persist, from the point of view of decarbonization. But this set of proposals which the Liberal Initiative here brings to us — in particular, even with the full return of the pass — as much sympathy as we can have, from an abstract point of view, for the reality of what is happening, does not seem reasonable because it places the burden of strike on workers above all, as if it were their fault. That is not the debate we should be doing. The debate that we should be doing is how to overcome these shortcomings and how you can effectively reward people who are currently being deprived, in their daily travels either for work, or even for leisure, their quality of life, an effective railway plan. For this debate, we will be available. However, for a debate which, once again, is markedly ideological and which is alien to those who are the real problems of the railway, will not count on us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u267	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr José Carlos Barbosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Prôa:The question 'What did the government do in the area of rail? », we can answer now. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We have planned to invest 2000 million in the 2020 railway; we have already invested about 950 million in operation; we have bought 22 trains that will arrive in 2025; we have injected 40 new trains into the network, which you have abandoned; we have opened workshops; we have launched the purchase of 117 new trains;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u269	They're gonna have to come!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u270	...and rescued, recovered and put to service more than 80 trains that you rudely abandoned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr António Prôa, say only one government that has done both by rail and by this government. [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Railway Plan is an important step towards rail. This plan attaches great importance to the increase of national rail mesh, leading the train to all district capitals, to the reduction of travel time between Lisbon and Porto and, consequently, to all cities with rail connection and to the strengthening of supply, increasing frequency and creating itineraries. The first phase, on April 19, 2021, went through the launch of the PFN. Even with the guidelines of the well-defined plan, the Government made very clear its purpose: to listen to the Portuguese before presenting its proposal. Yes, listen: listen to ordinary citizens, listen to passengers, listen to railway specialists, listen to municipal chambers, listen to parish councils, listen to business and environmental associations, listen to political parties. The question is: what were the IL's proposals in 1. The phase? None! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] In addition to taking itself as an unprecedented measure in the national railway and placing the country talking about trains, the phase of the previous auscultation of the various entities allowed to receive 319 contributions, many of which were considered in the first draft of the plan. A 2. the phase, on November 17, 2022, consisted of the presentation of the plan. along the 71 pages that make up the document, we realize that the plan can respond to each of the 11 objectives, of which I highlight one : to plan a railway network for a medium and long-term horizon that allows the railway route to affirm itself as mode of transport of high capacity and environmental sustainability. Presented the plan, we moved on to 3. the stage, the stage of public discussion. 619 contributions were received. Yes, 619 contributions! That is, about twice as many received in 1. the phase. Again, the question is: what were the proposals of the IL in 3. the phase. Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] right now, we're at 4. the phase, which has the involvement of two entities: the TMI, which is currently conducting the analysis of each of the contributions received, assessing the feasibility of integration of them, and the LNEC, which is conducting the strategic environmental assessment. At 5. the, and last phase, passes through the approval of the plan in the Council of Ministers and the sending of the document to the Assembly of the Republic, where we will discuss and have the opportunity to propose amendments to the defining law of the national rail network in order to provide stability and planning of investments in the sector in the coming decades. Having examined the facts, IL wants to anticipate the PFN debate not to correct possible failures, but rather to try to amend the hand, since, during the contribution phase, little or nothing has done, and now wants to anticipate it, creating the illusion that the plan was misdirected, when it was actually not. In fact, he tries to create here the illusion that he conceived the line of Trás-os-Montes, when the proposal was presented by the Vale d' Ouro Association. [[IL protests.]] The IL proposal was to bring the train from Penafiel to Sanabria, while the Vale d' Ouro Association, the regional autoarchs and members of the Socialist Party defend that the train must leave the port airport, connecting to Zamora. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u271	It could be too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u272	If there is an example of civil society involvement, this participatory process is one of them. What we demand from the IL is to do its work, with the rigor and the metrics that it requires, that it respects the institutions and, above all, that it does the debate in the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u273	And vice versa! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u274	Now it is time for the IMT and the LNEC to do their job, without political pressures and no media pressures. Parliament cannot condition the technical and rigorous work of these institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u275	It costs, doesn't it cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u276	When this process is completed, it will be the time for political struggle, debate of ideas, of those who want a better railway, of those who want a large rail network, of those who want the railway to serve all district capitals. We, in the PS, continue to bet on the public iron road. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u277	CP! CP! [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u278	Good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Carlos Barbosa has a request for clarification and for this to be made Mr António Prôa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u279	Mr President, Member, after eight years of responsibility of the Socialist Party in the Government, do you think that Portuguese are satisfied with the offer of public transport provided by the Socialist Party? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u280	They gave us the absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u281	Imagine if they weren't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u282	Mr President, quite frankly, I ask you: is the Socialist Party not ashamed of what it is not able to do at the end of the eight years? [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u283	Are you not ashamed to continue forcing the Portuguese to have no conditions of transport worthy of a modern and European country? Aren't you ashamed? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u284	What about you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u285	You think that's enough? Frankly, Mr. Deputy, frankly. I have recently heard a Socialist Member say that there are delays because there is work. It is worth considering well the statement they make. But is that a way to justify delay and incompetence? Whoever has a work has to do at the right time. That is your obligation! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] When the work does not happen in the right time it is because there is incompetence, and you should be humble and say: "Excuse me, we are not too capable! We're incompetent. at the end of eight years, we didn't get any more than this. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u286	You guys have to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u287	What is this? These are promises, these are the posters that you like to beg. Now, implementation, improvement of Portuguese conditions in public transport? Zero! They can't implement anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u288	Zero, it's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u289	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u290	Mr President, at the end of eight years, do you not think they should already be able to assume your inadequacies? At the end of eight years, they didn't do anything! [[PSD applause.]] As for the work done, let me give you again the three examples I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u291	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u292	For Ferrovia 2020, it was to be completed by 2021, possibly completed by 2025. The 117 trains will only begin to arrive between 2026 and 2029. Do you know what that means? They arrive between 11 and 14 years after you take responsibility for the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u293	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u294	And the boats, which come without batteries, were to arrive in 2020 and eventually arrive from now on. Do you think this is correct? You should be ashamed of this benefit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u295	To reply, Mr. José Carlos Barbosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u296	Mr. Member, I know that the PSD... Thank you, Madam President, I am sorry that I am not very used to it yet. [[PS Members' laughs.]] Mr. Deputies, the PSD tried to turn the CP into the slogan « CP Camionetas de Portugal », such was the number of people waiting for the train to stop the bus. [[Laughter from PS Member Berta Nunes.]] Why? Because he stopped the trains, because he closed the offices, sir. In fact, you who are experts in discussing cases and houses in investigation committees... [[Hey, hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u297	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u298	Do you really want to talk about committees of inquiry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u299	... it was good to see why the PSD cost 10 % of the cars of the Lisbon urban trains, which, in fact, was an unpublished thing, a gross management error! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] When the PSD tracked two 3500 cars, capable of transporting 2000 people, at the end of 15 years, it was a gross management error. I repeat, it was a gross mismanagement, Mr! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] Mr. Deputies, I believe that the PSD has a magical formula to buy trains on the stand. We do not have the magic formula,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u300	They've bought them old ones!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u301	... but the magic formula we found to solve the country's problems is to buy trains and make them built here in the Portuguese railway industry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u302	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u303	Madam President, I welcome you and all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. José Carlos Barbosa, it is always a pleasure to hear him because he talks with his heart when he talks about trains. But since I said that the PSD does not have a magic formula, having no time to answer, I would like to ask you a question. In September 2022, Pedro Nuno Santos said that the award of 117 trains was postponed to February 2023. Since you talked so much about trains, have these trains been bought or not? Are they awarded already or not? That is the answer the PS should have given and did not give in this debate. In fact, the PS has to decide whether the National Railway Plan is that of Pedro Nuno Santos or whether it is that of João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u304	It's ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u305	Peter Nuno Santos's, we knew what he was. John Galamba's, we don't know who he is, and it was important that we also know. [[Ball!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u306	Then I understand why the IL brings this debate. The IL brings this debate because it was remorseful when it was the election campaign and did not call Patavina, excuse the expression, inside the country or the Algarve. [[IL Rodrigo Saraiva's laughs.]] That is why they have brought this debate today and now speak a lot inside the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Liberal Initiative did not connect any to the country and did not call the Algarve. In fact, they only campaigned in eight districts and that is the great truth. [[IL protests.]] I also heard from the Socialist Party that they want to take the train to all the district capitals, I repeat, to all the district capitals! Mr President, I am going to give you the example of Portalegre — I don't know if you know where Portalegre is! — the Portalegre train station is 20 km from the city of Portalegre, 20 km! Sir, it's just to see! [[Protests of PS Members.]] That is, from the train station to the center of the city is 20 km and the honourable Member is here saying he wants to take the train to all the district capitals. It's a lie, it's a lie, it's impossible to do that the way you're doing it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u307	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u308	I conclude, Madam President, with all due respect, saying very quickly that I think the phrase that marks this debate is, without a doubt: "The delays do not have to do with the government, it is because there is work on the ground. » I will repeat, I will repeat that it is to hear well and to hear well at home.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u309	Everyone has heard, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u310	« Delays do not have to do with the government, it is because there is work on the ground. » It is not the fault of strikes, it is not the bad state of transport, it is not the suppression of trains. It is undoubtedly the fault of the work on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u311	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u312	For God's sakes, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have decency and apologize to the Portuguese, who have to use trains every day and, unfortunately, it is almost unconditional. Thank you very much for your condescendence, Madam President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u313	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u314	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u315	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u316	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u317	Mr President, it is only to request, with a lower energy level than that of the last two interventions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u318	Leave the interventions there! The polls are lower!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u319	...to be handed over to all Members, but especially to Mr. Pedro Pinto, in addition to the Electoral Programme of the Liberal Initiative, which had several concrete proposals, the agenda we used in the campaign, because we passed through all districts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u320	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u321	The honourable Member is recalling any news that he has read, that he was talking about autarchics and not about legislation. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u322	I won't even answer, because it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u323	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We have reached the end of this debate. We are moving to the closing phase and to this end Mr Rui Rocha of the IL Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: News coming out a few hours ago indicate that Portugal had the highest tax burden ever in 2022. We are talking about 34, 6 % of GDP ( Gross domestic product ). News from the last few hours also indicates that the Portuguese paid, on average, nearly €900 of taxes in 2022 than they had paid in 2021. What I want to bring to this closure is that we have an increasingly voracious collection of taxes on Portuguese, Portuguese, which is known, from the beginning of last year, that they face a highly pronounced crisis, with loss of purchasing power which reached almost 4 % in the private sector in 2022, and 7% in the public sector in 2022 as well. So, while the Portuguese have less purchasing power, they see taxes rising, they see taxes rising. What could be asked, at least in this scenario, is that there would then be public services — today we are talking about transport — that at least would be acceptable. But the truth is that, every time Mr. José Carlos Barbosa speeds up in this Chamber, there are thousands of thousands of Portuguese who are stopped because the PS is incompetent in transport management, particularly the railway. I believe, therefore, that one day Mr. José Carlos Barbosa goes between us and we do not see him, but that is only the speed he uses in these interventions. It's the only thing that's fast in these things, because then, day after day, the Portuguese are stopped. They are stopped because of lack of public transport, they are stopped because of labour conflict and they are stopped because of the incompetence of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u325	That's why they get out of the privates to go to the CP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u326	So here is a good example of how at the speed set in the discourse is completely lacking support in reality. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The Liberal Initiative will continue to bring these questions—and also replying to Mr José Carlos Barbosa—to this House, at the time it understands, when it understands that the debate is useful for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u327	It's the metrics!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u328	We don't talk at the same speed, but we talk at the speed that the Portuguese need. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u329	It's high speed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u330	We move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No. 225 / XIV / 2. a ( Association of Professional Guards - APG / GNR ) — They request that discounts for the GNR Health Care Service affect 12 months of basic remuneration, together with the general assessment of Law Projects Nos 602 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces the contribution to ADSE, SAD and ADM to 3 % and sets the incidence of these in the 12 months corresponding to the monthly remuneration by amending Decree-Law No 118 / 83 of 25 February and Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September 665 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce contributions to health subsystems SAD and ADM and 692 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Provision that the discount on the supplementary system of assistance in the illness of the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police affects 12 months of basic remuneration ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September ). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u331	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group would first of all like to congratulate the Association of Guard Professionals, the APG / GNR, which promotes this petition and through it also all the Guard professionals and all those who have associated with this petition, which we consider to be of extreme justice. They ask for discounts for GNR health care services to affect over 12 months and not over 14 months, relying on legality and safeguarding the rights and interests legally protected by GNR professionals. Clearly, the CFP accompanies this claim, which, in addition to anything else, is inserted into a policy that we believe is necessary, of valuing work and workers, but also of valuing the security forces, which is the condition necessary to have attractiveness in the profession and thus entry which compensates for the reservations. Therefore, we bring a bill aimed at correcting this injustice, for all workers benefiting from public health subsystems, of ADSE ( Institute of Health Protection and Assistance in Disease, IP ), of the SAD ( Services of Assistance in Disease ) and of the Assistance in Disease to Military ( ADM ), setting the incidence of these in the 12 months of remuneration and thus reducing the contribution to the 3% as well. Currently, these contributions are discounted 14 months, i.e., discounted on monthly remuneration and on holiday and Christmas allowances, which means an additional effort. What would be fair and what we propose is that these contributions affect only within the 12 months, discounting only the remuneration, leaving out the subsidies. Because, if the year consists of 12 months, this is the period that should be considered for contributions, not 14.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u332	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u333	Because discounts affect remuneration, but subsidies are not remuneration, and because people can only get sick 12 months and not 14 months. The Court of Auditors, with regard to an audit of ADSE in 2019, said precisely that maintaining the incidence in 14 months means that the beneficiaries are contributing to this health system without the corresponding reimbursement of services for more than two months than the calendar year, and that therefore the Government should endeavour to ensure that the collection is made over the 12 months of the year in which the beneficiaries effectively use the services. But it is also fair—and the CFP also wanted to raise this issue — to reduce the value of the discount, in so far as the last PSD/CDS Government has increased by two percentage points the value of the contributions of the beneficiaries of the health subsystems of the employees of the Public Administration, which, in practice, has placed exclusively those beneficiaries to support their health subsystems. unlike the rhetoric of the then PSD government / CDS, the increase in discounts did not aim to ensure the sustainability of these subsystems, but, because of the increases in these discounts, what was guaranteed was another cut in wages. Moreover, once again, the Court of Auditors, in its opinion, considered this excessive increase and generating surpluses which go far beyond the financing needs of ADSE, if any. The CFP, considering that the beneficiaries of ADSE, SAD and ADM should not be penalised, proposes to reduce the contribution to health subsystems to 3 %, gradually replenishing the value of 2011. It also considers that the incidence on the 12 months of remuneration should also be initiated. This is an opportunity to value workers, not only security forces, but all workers in general. It is also an opportunity for the PS, the PS government and its parliamentary bench to differentiate from what the PSD / CDS government has done, which is an increasingly tenuous and more difficult to find. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u334	To submit Bill No. 665 / XV / 1. a ( BE), Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u335	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first of all like to greet the petitioners and, in particular, the APG / GNR, for bringing this issue to debate. What are we talking about? We are talking about a salary cut promoted by the PSD/CDS government, because during the period of troika they decided to increase the obligations of the worker, the guards, to their health subsystems. This obligation had as direct consequences, on the one hand, the loss of responsibility of the employer — of the State — and, on the other hand, a loss of the actual income of these workers. So when we can ask the country if there are still things to undo, of all the evils that the right and the troika have done, the answer is: "There is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And this is one of those examples. That is why, whenever the PS rises in this House and accuses the PSD of the troika's evils, I believe this is one of those moments when we should look at the hypocrisy of this accusation. Because here, where there is an effective loss of income from these Guard professionals, it actually exists by creating PSD and CDS, but by the convivence of PS, which never wanted to undo this evil. from the Left Block, we find this requirement to restore the originally paid values and thus give more income available to the Guard professionals is fair, and we propose exactly that. If it was right in the past, now that the cost of living is rising sharply and that the government has chosen to give up protecting the wages of inflation, this requirement is even more serious. So on the left side of the Block, we have brought just this proposal: justice is being done to the Guard's professionals, ensuring that their income is properly valued, that what the evil on the right has done to them is undone until today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u336	I use to inform the House that we have, in gallery 3, parliamentary officials of the following Portuguese-language parliaments : National Assembly of Angola, National Assembly of Cape Verde, Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique, National Assembly of Sao Tome and Principe, National Parliament of Timor-Leste, Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Azores and Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which were participating in the VII Interparliamentary Training Course of the Association of Secretaries-General of the Portuguese-language Parliaments. For them, our greeting. Welcome. [[General applause.]] To submit Bill No. 692 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), I give the floor to Mr Pedro Pessanha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u337	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We greet the petitioners. The difficulties faced by the security forces and services in Portugal are public knowledge. Low wages, reduced attractiveness of the profession, limited operational capacity, lack of means and effectiveness are some of the most recurrent complaints of PSP and GNR military agents serving our populations. But in addition to these serious problems, it is also in the field of health that the most dramatic cases confront the men and women who serve our security forces. Cases of depression and suicide are a constant unfortunate in the teams and positions of PSP and GNR. A study submitted last year by the Independent Union of Police Officers concluded that, in the last 22 years, 165 security forces agents committed suicide. The same study shows that the suicide rate in the police is 16, 3 per 100,000, almost twice the rate of the population in general, which is 9, 7. This is how, in this dark, adverse scenario, without any perspective for the members of the security forces, it is urgent that solutions be found that alleviate in some way the financial effort in the care of the disease. The complementary system of assistance in the disease of the professionals of the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police and their families was established by Decree-Law No 158/2005 of 20 September 2005. This diploma has reformed the standards of the GNR and PSP health subsystems, converging to the regulations of the ADSE subsystem and updating them to the present day. Currently, GNR and PSP professionals contribute 3, 5 % of their monthly gross remuneration to SAD-GNR and SAD-PSP in line with the beneficiaries of ADSE. Also on behalf of the already mentioned convergence, the discounts for GNR and PSP DDS are made on 14 monthly base salaries, although they only enjoy their benefits for 12 months per year. This question was raised by the Court of Auditors itself, which recommended that monthly discounts for ADSE should be reported to the 12 months of the year in which beneficiaries use it, on behalf of transparency, in the perception of beneficiaries, on the monthly quota they actually bear. However, this recommendation has not yet been implemented, which led the Association of Guard Professionals to present the petition today. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival presents a bill aimed at correcting this injustice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u338	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u339	... by establishing that discounts for the SAD of GNR and PSP will start to affect only the 12 months in which beneficiaries enjoy their benefits. This measure will allow greater justice and transparency for professionals and their families who depend on DDS for their health care. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u340	For an intervention, Mrs Lina Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u341	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the initiative carried out by the Association of Guard Professionals, proposing that discounts for the GNR Health Care Service should affect 12 months of basic remuneration and not over 14 months, including the Christmas and holiday allowance, as is currently the case. The petitioners rightly claim that there are two benefits that are paid without corresponding to their effective use. As we know, the health subsystem of GNR and PSP is governed by Decree-Law No 185 / 2005 of 20 September 2005 as provided for in Article 8. the, which, and I quote : « The right of assistance in the disease to the staff of GNR, PSP and its family members covers the modalities defined as protection in the disease of ADSE. Do not keep on seeking. ” As everyone knows, discounts for ADSE also affect 14 months. In addition, Report No 22 / 2019, of the Court of Auditors, auditing ADSE, invoked by the petitioners in conclusion No 61, points out that « quotitizers support 14 months of contributions annually despite taking advantage of ADSE for 12 months of the calendar year, which is not transparent as to the effective discount rate. Do not keep on seeking. ” The same court adds a recommendation that the monthly charge for ADSE should be reported to 12 months of the year in which beneficiaries use ADSE and not to 14 months, contributing to transparency in the perception of contributions on the monthly quota they effectively bear and corresponding to a rate of 4, 08 % of gross monthly remuneration. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to draw your attention to three points: firstly, it seems perfectly reasonable and appropriate that the convergence of the various health subsystems equivalent to ADSE should be ensured; secondly, the recommendation of the Court of Auditors is perfectly fair and sensible, because the monthly quota paid by the beneficiaries of the health systems should be clear and transparent, and should be paid in 12 benefits and not in 14, as is currently verified. Thus, the petitioners claim to meet the recommendation of the Court of Auditors and should be extended to ADSE and other state health systems. Third point, as the Court also points out, the beneficiaries of the health system must be aware that they are currently paying 4, 08 % gross monthly remuneration. Thus, the rational value of this value must be made completely transparent. The question we should ask is whether the sustainability of the health system requires a payment of 4, 08 % of gross monthly remuneration. Yes or no? Well, if the value is excessive, then it should be reduced to a value that ensures the system's sustainability and does not burden beneficiaries disproportionately. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our concern must be that everyone has access to health care in a fair, sustainable and transparent manner. The proposals of the PCP, the Left Block and the Arrival show easy solutions that please anyone. [[PCP protests.]] I am also a beneficiary of ADSE and if anyone responsible — I stress, responsible! — to tell me that I can have the same services and, at the same time, pay less, I will say no? It's obviously what we all want. But if this same person explains to me that she will not be responsible for the implementation of her easy solutions and that they can lead to the collapse of the care system and I am left without medical assistance, well, it will not be her face for the failure of easy solutions, but it will be her in the first line to criticize the consequences of the easy solutions she herself proposed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, easy solutions are mere demagogy and populism. The CFP proposes the reduction of the annual quota from 4, 08 % to 3 % without any justification, in addition to the obvious fact that three is less than four. BE proposes the reduction of the annual quota from 4, 08 % to 2, 5 % without any justification, in addition to the fact that 2, 5 is less than three, as proposed by the CFP. [[PCP protests.]] If the parties to the left of the PS decide to enter this auction, we could reach up to 0 % and who knows how to even reach a negative value and thus would be the system to pay the beneficiaries to encourage them to enjoy the system free of charge. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Finally, populism at its best and, at the same time, at the forefront of the criticisms of the difficulties resulting therefrom. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, in a transparent and accountable manner, agrees that: 12 benefits are paid and not 14, as is currently verified, in accordance with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors and the petitioners ; that the current quota of 4, 08 % of gross monthly remuneration be reduced to a value in line with the sustainability of the health system; that all have access to health care in a fair, sustainable and transparent manner. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u342	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u343	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us obviously begin by congratulating the Association of Guard Professionals and the approximately 10,300 petitioners who have us discussing this issue today. The discussion that brings us this petition and these projects is very relevant and, in order for it to be done seriously and responsibly, it is important that we fully understand what we are dealing with. Of course it should be remembered that with the coming of the troika by a socialist government, the successive government has increased its monthly contributions from the beneficiaries of ADSE, SAD and ADM. Then it is important to consider another subject which is also under discussion: the number of times these contributions are made each year. The beneficiaries of ADSE, SAD and ADM discount 14 times a year for these subsystems because holiday and Christmas subsidies are included in the discounts. So, three possible visions arise about this: first, if one year is only 12 months old, and, of course, only during these months are people resorting to health services, what is the plausible justification for these people to discount 14 months? ; second, taxation is made according to the maturity and allowances integrate the concept of basic maturity, so it has logic the contribution in 14 times; third, in line with the second view, taxation is made based on the annual value, then it is indifferent to the number of months in which this payment is made. We can still consider in this analysis and debate the variable that ADSE is no longer mandatory, unlike the SAD and the ADM that maintains this condition. In fact, in this regard, the Court of Auditors has also pronounced itself and the Portuguese Communist Party even recalls it, and very well, in its bill. Mrs. Members of the CFP, the Liberal Initiative welcomes the fact that the CFP cites the Court of Auditors in this debate, seeking its support, it is only worthwhile that the Court of Auditors should be interested only when it is appropriate for you, because when the Court of Auditors has pronounced itself in relation to the efficiency of PPPs in health and savings generated by the State and taxpayers, as the Liberal Initiative has repeatedly remembered, that for the CFP, does not matter at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u344	Well remembered! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u345	On Tuesday and Thursday the CFP likes the Court of Auditors very much, but in the other days it doesn't give them much. [[PCP protests.]] Therefore, the CFP has to decide on its relationship with the Court of Auditors, but they do not need to be very exalted either because we will not impermiss your project, neither yours nor the other projects that are in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u346	Exalted why? They're so few!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u347	With regard to the project of the Left Block, for example, it is questionable what the budget impact of the proposal with the reduction of 1% in contributions and also what justification for contributions to be lowered only to SAD and ADM, excluding ADSE, which appears to be a kind of discrimination, something that the Block does not usually like. In the project of the Arrival it is questionable why the reduction for 12 months of contributions is only for the beneficiaries of the SAD, excluding the Armed Forces and the civil servants of the Public Administration, because it presents a proposal to please only the PSP and the GNR, discriminating the Armed Forces and all officials of the Public Administration, such as teachers and nurses, of which they talk so much, is obviously known to everyone by electoralism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u349	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with a sense of responsibility, are available to assess, in addition to the formats and criteria, the financial viability of the proposals, ensuring that the sustainability of these subsystems is obviously not compromised. Thus, in order to create a path of potential financial impossibility of a system and then back here claim that taxpayers will have to pay any ransom or salvation, do not count on us. Here is a good example in which electoralism and statism are shown as two sides of the same coin. We are not and will not, of course, be available for non-binding discrimination between subsystems; we are, yes, available to work proposals with a sense of responsibility. To promote discrimination, electoralism and populism do not count on us, because for this petition we do not give. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u350	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u351	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Association of Guard Professionals and greet the more than 10,000 petitioners for bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. We follow the proposals that are made here, since not only does it make sense to be taxing for 14 months, when, in fact, not only the work that is done as well as the benefit that can be withdrawn from the point of view of access to ADSE is also within 12 months of the year. Therefore, this incidence is manifestly abusive — indeed, the Court of Auditors itself, as mentioned here in the debate, and the Association itself, when addressing the Assembly of the Republic, warned about it. But what was left out of the debate, when the proposal to reduce to the 3% of the discounts made, was that this reduction, more than a question of sustainability, is due to the increase in the cost of living and the impact that this has on families. When we discussed the State budget, we called on the Government to update the steps of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) at the rate of inflation, but that did not happen. In fact, there is a real loss of wages that families are currently having and therefore this reduction of discounts seems to us to be of the most basic justice. We regret, of course, that this debate, due to its conditionality, is not extensible to the other discounts and the other tax burden, and that Portugal remains one of the countries with the highest tax burden of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and that is also a concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u352	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u353	Madam President, I begin by welcoming the petitioners who bring to this House a request and a warning that is of the most basic justice and legality, i.e. that the discounts to the GNR's safety box are not made 14 times a year, when the benefits resulting from it are obviously only enjoyed in the 12 months that the year has. It is important, as has been said several times here, that the transition to a discount system 12 times a year is made in order to ensure the sustainability of the box and we think that, in this dehydration, the project we have here under discussion, which is closer to this objective, which everyone should be interested in and, in particular, to the beneficiaries themselves, is the CFP project, which we will accompany. We also took advantage of it to point out that, at meetings with the Professional Association of the GNR, we were informed that there are few psychologists to whom GNR professionals have access, that there are few protocols with entities that provide psychological support services, that the assistance in the disease is very conditional on the coast, that for the guards inside the country there is also little access to this care in the disease, and that, when resorting to a medical service of free choice, reimbursement takes a lot of time. These are some warnings that we have had knowledge, in the communication that we have had with the Association, and that we find it important to bring here to the House to serve as best as possible those who also serve us every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u354	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u355	Madam President, I intend to intervene, but I do not know if it should not be the turn of the Socialist Party, since it has not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u356	You're right, sir. Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u357	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We first welcome the petitioners and all those who have associated with this petition in an exercise of civic participation, which is always to be emphasized. The petition that is being discussed today obviously deserves our best attention. It has as its first subscriber the Association of Guard Professionals and it is requested in the same way that the discounts for assistance in the disease, in the GNR, affect 12 months of basic remuneration and not over 14 months, since they are considered to be the Christmas and holiday benefits. With this petition, we also discussed during this debate several legislative initiatives that affect the same subject, which also propose the reduction of the contribution to ADSE, SAD and ADM. Both the ADSE and the ADM legal regime refer to the incidence of basic remuneration discounts, without distinguishing whether it is the monthly remuneration or the annual base remuneration. It also refers to Article 150 ( 2 ). the General Law on Public Works, the annual base remuneration is paid in 14 monthly instalments, corresponding to one of them to the Christmas allowance and the other to the holiday allowance. The Remuneration Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces also defines in Article 4 thereof. the, that the annual base remuneration is paid in 14 monthly instalments. Therefore, the support for the application of discounts within 14 months is based on the conjugation of the legal devices I have just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, any amendment to the legal framework in force lacks a sustainability study to analyse the impacts that this amendment generates, a study that is also planned and is currently under way, and therefore it is not considered appropriate at this stage to welcome the initiatives in question. It should be noted that ADM and ADSE are based on a principle of solidarity in which the discounts of all contribute to a common benefit scheme. As regards the system of assistance for GNR and PSP disease, this service, in order to continue its tasks, cannot carry out expenditure without the corresponding revenue, which comes exclusively from its beneficiaries. The decrease in this revenue, either by reducing the discounts from 14 to 12 months, or by reducing the percentage of the discount, can lead to a significant financial deficit, which is estimated to be more than EUR 4 million. In addition, an increase in expenditure is expected in relation to the situation: on the one hand, due to inflation and changes in price tables practised and, on the other hand, due to an increase in the number of pensioners who, benefit from the system services, do not make due discounts because they are exempt from the law. These services, as you know, enjoy a stable financial balance, contrary to what has happened in the past, and can thus continue to carry on their duties. Moreover, there is a correspondence between the discounts in this disease support system and other health subsystems, such as ADSE. We do, sirs. Members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, promote a steady improvement in the working conditions of the security forces. For this reason, we have developed a policy that seeks to enhance its professional activity and ensure levels of readiness and operational response, which contribute to the continued presence of Portugal among the most peaceful countries in the world. And because we value our security forces and services, we are, first of all, giving continuity to investment in modernising infrastructure and equipment, worth EUR 607 million, to run up to 2026. Because we value our security forces and services, we are, secondly, concluding this year of 2023 the payment of the retroactives of unpaid pay supplements during the holiday period, at the rate of 28, 5 million euros per year. Because we value our security forces, invest in the supplement of services and risks in the security forces, estimated at EUR 50 million annually. We also guarantee a substantial increase in remuneration — the biggest wage increase in the decade — from the elements of the security forces, from the base to the top, estimated at 20 % up to 2026. Because we value our security forces, we ensure an investment programmed under the Recovery and Resilience Plan, to recover infrastructure from GNR's social services, on an investment of EUR 6 million to 131 lodgings ranging from Faro to Keys. And, finally, we celebrate protocols with different municipalities in the country to provide more tailored living conditions to the needs of today, with accommodation and housing for professionals and also for families. More than EUR 60 million is planned for accommodation in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. If we add the programming cycle from 2017 to 2021 with what we planned from 2022 to 2026, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about close to EUR 1000 million to re-qualify, modernise and transform the conditions for the professional exercise of men and women who are part of the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u358	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u359	And these types of investments, as you know, always bring a response to the dignity of working conditions, housing, food, convivio, leisure and rest of the men and women who integrate security forces. We will continue, as always, in dialogue with this sector to affirm a more returned, more humanist and, above all, more secure country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u360	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u361	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have said that I find the intervention of the Liberal Initiative very strange in this debate, because we have heard so many times the Liberal Initiative say "the taxes on the rich are lowered, the taxes on the rich are lowered", but they never show the accounts of the consequences in the social state, they never show the accounts in the sustainability of that which is the solidarity of everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u362	You never heard us say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u363	But in order to give what is fair to the Guard's professionals who, in a discretionary way, without consultation, without presentation of studies, have been changed, one day to the other, the obligation to contribute to their subsystems, have already been asked for studies. « Attention, study first! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, first of all, justice is involved, justice to these professionals, to whom the right, when in power, at one time to the other, he wanted to withdraw rights, increasing his contributions. And it would be hoped that the Liberal Initiative, saying that it would like to have more income available to these workers, said « we are available to download. But no, it was exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u364	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u365	Justice is not studied, Mr President, justice is implemented. But I find it strange, too, on the part of the PSD, to say: « but why this value, why not another? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs. Member, there is a memory gap here because the value we proposed is exactly the same regime that was in effect before the PSD / CDS changes. Why? For a matter of justice—justice! — with these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u366	But how many years ago? Ask the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u367	And it's curious, because the PSD always says, "before any labour law is changed, before any relationship between employers and workers is changed, we should listen to social consultation, we should listen to interested people, workers, etc. Do not keep on seeking. ” Madam Member, do you know how many people the PSD has heard, how many entities have heard about this? Zero. Zero! It was an imposition, a brutal authoritarianism about what? The performance of these guard professionals. So first of all, we are talking about justice. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] And it's strange, because the PS in the past also stood up against this injustice. He said it was unacceptable and said even more things. I can even reproduce the arguments, because some are true. He said that they were paying more for less services, that the services were not well distributed in the territory and that, therefore, there were some in the interior who paid as much as others on the coast, but had no access to care. He said it was unfair, unfair! And when the PS, with an absolute majority, could prevent this injustice, what does it do? Well, more or less the same thing the PSD and CDS did at the time: leave everything as it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u368	They're the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u369	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u370	I conclude with this sentence, Madam President. We, for years, insist on this justice, and we will insist until it is achieved, because it is justice that we are talking to these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u371	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u372	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was no longer to intervene in this debate, but, after listening to Mrs Susana Amador's statements, I will have to speak. Madam Member, I do not believe you believe what you have said, because the security forces professionals who are here, those who are out there, those who are at home watching this debate and some who are acting right now know that what you have said is not true. The increases are miserable! Either the order of the PSP, or the order of the GNR increased 52 €. 52 €! And I beat my chest, saying: "What a great thing we have done, how great a great thing the Socialist Party has done! We give more € 52 to PSP and GNR professionals! » This is when monetary compensation is paid, as has been seen in the case of TAP — in the shameful and scandalous case of TAP. And here comes the Socialist Party knocking on its chest and saying: "What great increases we have made! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u373	It was a significant increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, be ashamed! At least that! I know that the honourable Member is a serious person, and I have a lot of consideration for you, as you know, but when you make this statement here in front of these 230 Members — or at least 230 Members — in front of the people who are at home watching this debate, no one believes, Mrs Deputies. No one believes this is the reality! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, Madam President, if we look at the conditions under which the prison guards work, if we look at the travels of the time of the Soviet Union which continue to exist either in the PSP, or in the GNR, or in the prisons, we can even say « what great investment the Socialist Party has made »?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u375	It was 600 million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u376	It wasn't a big investment, it was a short investment, a small investment, you have to invest much more! The Socialist Party, up to 2026 — if it is in operation until 2026, we hope not — has to invest much more in the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u377	And it's been here since 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u378	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable what you have said here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u379	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u380	Madam President: Very quickly, I think we can even distinguish the two questions. If the problem is the question of the value of the contribution, we discuss the question of the months of incidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u381	And where are the bills? Show us the accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u382	Now, look at the idea that you don't understand the interpretation, whether it should be monthly or annually, that's not fair to us, because people can only actually get sick for 12 months and can't use their contributions for another two fictitious months. Therefore, if there is a practical effect that this subsystem aims to achieve, this effect is precisely to guard situations during the months that exist in the year and not on those that are projected, to cut even more in incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u383	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u384	And it has good medicine to promote the sustainability of health systems: it is to make a wage recovery policy, because this also has an implication in the sustainability of health systems. And in fact, there the government, cryingly, is not concerned about sustainability. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u385	Only 45 % of the beneficiaries use ADSE, 55 % use SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-13.u386	We are thus at the end of this item on our agenda. The plenary session will meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the next agenda. Point one will be a current debate required by the Left Block on « Gender inequality in the world of work ». Point two will be the general assessment of Law Projects No. 660 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) : — Social debt regularization programme, 700 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Provides for the flexibility of the financing line « Social Investment Credit » and 701 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases the limit on the number of benefits for tax payments ( 4 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 125 / 2021 of 30 December; 43. the amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 16 October ). Point three will be the general assessment of Bill No. 491 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Sets out the rules applicable to early retirement of children educators and teachers of basic and secondary education, amending the Status of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April. Point four will be the assessment of the Resolution Project No 570 / XV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European elections initiatives considered to be priority within the framework of the European Commission's 2023 work programme. The last item will consist of regular votes. Thank you very much. I wish everyone a good rest of the day, and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 22 minutes.]]
