ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I now call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u2	Mr President, very late to all and to all. I note that they have entered, and have been admitted by Mr. President, the Bills No. 560 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 576 / XV / 1. a ( L) and Resolution Projects Nos 488 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 489 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 497 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 498 / XV / 1. a ( L). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u3	Thank you very much. The agenda today is the result of its establishment by the PSD Parliamentary Group, for the evaluation of various bills ( generally) and draft resolutions related to education issues, in particular: Bill No. 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Changes in external assessment of learning: introduction of measurement tests in 4. it's 6. the years; Resolution No 434 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — recommends that the Government adopt a set of urgent measures in the education sector; Resolution No 454 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Desburocratize : return teachers to teaching; Resolution No 455 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — For a greater scope of the number of students receiving school social action and for the unburocratization in their allocation; Draft Resolution No 456 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the effectiveness, duration and financing of learning recovery measures developed autonomously by public schools; Bill No. 575 / XV / 1. a (IL) — carrying out measurement tests in the final years of each basic education cycle; Bill No. 576 / XV / 1. a (L) — lays down rules for the establishment of groups and classes of pre-school, education and training establishments and for the period of operation of pre-school and educational establishments; Resolution No 492 / XV / 1. a (IL) — completion of the school building intervention programme; Draft Resolution No 493 / XV / 1. a (IL) — recommends that the Government grant private and cooperative education greater autonomy for the hiring of teachers; Resolution No. 494 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Review of decision on the digitisation of final cycle evidence No 9. the year of schooling; Resolution No 495 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By strengthening, monitoring and extending Plan 21 23 Schools + and diagnosing learning losses; Draft Resolution No 498 / XV / 1. a (L) — For fair compensation to teachers placed in schools away from their residence. I recall that at the end of the debate there will be votes and that immediately after the plenary I will give the committee of inquiry to the management of the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). To present the five initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2023, after seven years of PS governance, none of the substantive issues affecting education was resolved. There was nothing about the restructuring of the career, about the recruitment of teachers, about the initial training of teachers, about how to make the career more attractive for young people or about the disburocratization of the teaching profession. The days of conflict exist and the malaise in schools is a matter of concern. They grow the degradation of the teaching condition, demotivation and lack of social recognition of the profession. At the inaction of the government, the teachers responded with demonstrations, protests and strikes, because the government's educational policy defines the public school, because they do not see their valued career and their improved working conditions. For thousands of teachers, the salary they receive does not cover the costs of accommodation, travel and food.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u5	In Crato's time it was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u6	Thousands survive, paying to work with the help of relatives. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u7	The government is horrified at reforms and guided by the culture of « let go’, which uses and abuses teachers and transforms them into mere technocrats or policymakers decided by the protection and different entities of the Ministry of Education. Because of incompetence of policies and lack of strategic vision, António Costa and João Costa are the great ones responsible for the critical, almost chaotic period, that afflicts the public school. [[PSD applause.]] It is urgent for the Government to value the career of teachers and to guarantee better conditions for the exercise of its profession. In seven years, there has been no measure to counter the lack of teachers, which is widespread and will continue to increase, nor measures to make the career more attractive to our young people. Nobody wants to be a teacher! The demand for initial training courses and the number of graduates in these courses will not be sufficient to meet the future needs of teachers. The education system is seriously at risk that in the short term it will not have teachers who arrive and collapse. Until 2030, 30,000 teachers will be retired and universities and political institutes will hardly have the ability to form this number of teachers in such short time. What have you done or are you doing the government about this? Little doll!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u9	For António Costa, education is not a priority. There are seven years of progressive degradation and public school clearance, seven years of unfulfilled promises and erratic policies that have damaged the social elevator of the public school. [[PSD applause.]] The absolute majority of Antonio Costa continues to fail students and their families, teachers and educators. The PSD requires that the government's action focus on urgently seeking solutions so that thousands of students' learning is not compromised. It is three years of lost or ill-adjusted learning, in which Portugal stood out for not strictly evaluating the effects of the pandemic, nor for taking any substantive action to counter them. If this was the post-pandamy reality today, with thousands of students without classes due to lack of teacher placement, with the paralysis and instability of schools in recent months, the situation has worsened even more. Tragic is also the fact that we do not have accurate or reliable data to assess the real situation of lost learning or the constraints of the education system. For the PSD, the external evaluation of student learning is one of the most important tools to know and monitor the educational system as well as to define policies to improve and improve efficiency. But the way followed by the government was to eliminate the main external evaluation mechanisms, without any technical-scientific support, which most likely contributed to the significant performance falls revealed by Portuguese students in international evaluations PISA ( Programme for International Student Assessment) 2018 and TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study ) 2019, compared with the good results achieved in 2015. [[PSD applause.]] This reality is further aggravated by the impoverishment situation that the PS has led the country. Portugal is above the European Union average in indicators of the risk rate of poverty and social exclusion. They are worrying data, considering that this is one of the predictors of success in the performance of students, with a more relevant impact on children in more vulnerable family contexts. For the PSD, it is essential to correct situations of injustice of school social action, which continues to leave thousands of students and families behind without the necessary support. One couple, each winning the minimum order, with one child is integrated into step C of school social action: you have no right to any participation. One single parent family, to earn the minimum order, with one child is integrated into step B of school social action: it is entitled to meals at 50% and a maximum participation of €10 in school materials and €10 in study visits, per year — a real fortune! Open... For these and many other measures to be implemented, it is essential to involve teachers, removing them from the high bureaucratic weight of numerous tasks they have to perform. It is essential to return teachers to teaching!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u11	Several studies reveal that teaching bureaucracy is strongly indicated as a relevant factor of demotivation among Portuguese teachers and the increase in physical and electronic bureaucracy has been directly associated with teaching burnout. Concerned about the disruptive situation that the education sector is experiencing, the PSD has allocated today's power debate to present the following set of proposals: to introduce proofs of measurement, universal and mandatory application, to be carried out at the end of the 4. it's 6. the years of schooling; strengthen the effectiveness, duration and funding of Plan 21 23 School +, extending its duration until 2026; ensure the conditions necessary for the involvement of local communities in promoting summer schools and in the design of solutions that reconcile the recovery of learning with the play area and which also favour students with specific educational needs; promote the impact assessment of Plan 21 23 School +, in order to allow a transparent, rigorous and regular analysis of the progress achieved in the face of clear curricular objectives; ensure, within the State budget for 2024, the increase of the allocation for school social action, in order to broaden the scope of the beneficiaries;... [[PSD applause.]] ... automate the award of the grant of merit, exempting the need for candidacy, provided that students meet the requirements; and urgently promote interoperability between the numerous existing platforms, allowing the unburocratization of teaching work. This is what the PSD proposes. I said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u12	Mr António Cunha, four Mrs have signed up. Members to ask you for clarification, to which I presume you answer in two blocks of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u13	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u14	To make the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Cunha, the PSD has brought us a beautiful example of what it means to run behind the damage — and to run badly, because the damage continues there, but we will get there. Let us see, the PSD, in the face of a crisis in housing, which is linked to the lack of conditions of teachers and public school to maintain and attract these teachers, makes an agenda whose main—in fact, unique! — draft law is relating to proof of measurement. This is the great problem that the PSD is currently facing in public school when it identifies, and well, an unprecedented moment—or precedent only in 2008—of teacher conflict, which has to do with, not only, but above all, the way negotiations are going on. Then, on the issues that would, in fact, make a difference in these teaching conditions, under the conditions for teachers to teach and be at school, let's see what the PSD proposes to us. He's talking about valuing his teaching career. How? The PSD proposes'methods' — mechanisms! — says that mechanisms are needed. Which ones? You guys have to... it's mechanisms! Next, talk about inverting the lack of teachers. How? With « measures », the PSD proposes measures. Which ones? People who find out, because the PSD doesn't realize them. He's still talking about decreasing bureaucracy in schools. How? With « measures», again, fulfilling the announced plans and, one of my favorite, keeping the focus — the government must keep the focus! — and that will solve the problem of bureaucracy in schools. He's talking about wage incentives where there's a lack of teachers. And I ask: where there is no lack of teachers, but teachers have to be displaced, no more wage incentives? We're going to have teachers with different salaries, and some are displaced to areas where there's a lack of teachers and some aren't? In addition, the PSD has other proposals that are completely empty. It recommends that the Government negotiate the evaluation model. All right, but is it in favour of quotas in this assessment model or is it against? Is it in favour of the evaluation model being linked to career progression, as it is today, or is it against? Don't say anything! Then there are two proposals that are absolutely mysterious. One : create conditions to value the salary at the beginning of career. What conditions? Budgetary conditions, economic conditions, educational conditions? What mysterious conditions are these that the government has to meet to do something of basic justice, which is to increase the salary of teachers? Another: create conditions for eliminating vacancies in 5. a is 7. The steps. Well, is the PSD in favor of vacancies or is it against? What is this about creating conditions to come to eliminate vacancies in the 5. a is 7. The stairs? There is a problem here, and that problem is the history of the PSD in this matter. If the PSD wants to talk about education, we can talk about education. The Left Block, in January 2021, proposed to create a compensation scheme for displaced teachers. PSD voted against. The Left Block proposed, in 2021, an extraordinary program of linkage of teachers. PSD voted against. In June 2022, the Left Block proposed removing obstacles to the progression of teachers to the 5. a is 7. The steps. PSD has abstained. In September 2022, he voted against a program of attraction and fixation of teachers in public school. In January 2023, it abstained from a draft resolution on respect for teachers and, as early as February 2023 — this month — it again abstained from an amendment to the Statute of the Teaching Career on vacancies for 5. a is 7. the steps and about the progression in the career. Mr. Member, we have a problem: is that, from Rui Rio to Nuno Crato, there was not a PSD leader until today that said there were more teachers in Portugal! They all did. Steps Coelho, Rui Rio, Nuno Crato, all said there were more teachers in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u16	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u17	There we are rewriting the story!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u18	And then we have the cherry on the top of the cake, which is when the PSD says it's necessary to create conditions to negotiate the recovery of service time that teachers lost and that the PSD didn't want to recover. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Then I remember three layers of newspaper: 2 May, « Parliament defeats government and establishes total recovery of frozen time» ; 3 May, « Costa threat with resignation of the government case of service of teachers be approved » ; 10 May, « Ended the political crisis. Right joins PS and lead full recovery of teachers’ time of service».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u20	It is very easy to speak, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u21	Mr Ventura has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u22	Mr President, honourable Member, I welcome the PSD Parliamentary Group for bringing such an important issue to the debate in plenary. I begin by saying the following: in fact, as Mrs Joana Mortágua has said, some of the PSD's work on this subject is to run behind the damage and some measures are a mystery. But at least the PSD is one thing: it tells us what it comes and what proposals it brings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u23	Oh, she's defending the PSD! [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u24	But the Block is also a mystery! Because, in fact, they are now saying that they want to regain the hours of service of teachers, who want to regain public school and give dignity to teachers' career, but for six years they have approved the budgets of management that have put an end to education and public school in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So that is a big difference, in fact. It is that the Left Block accuses the PSD of presenting mysterious measures, but those of the Block already know what they are: they are the same as Antonio Costa and the same as the management! So from there, there will certainly not come any solution to education. He agreed with what the honourable Member said about the two Costas being responsible for the state in which we have education today, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education. In 2010 we had about 180 000 teachers in operation in the various education cycles. In 2021, we have just over 150 000. This shows a sharp loss of teachers due to the devaluation and low attractiveness of the career, and has a responsible: António Costa, which since 2015 has led the country to these terms. But for six years, with the support of the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u26	This can't be hidden. What I ask you is reasonable, so that the country can understand. The PSD has said that we should recover the time count of the teachers as soon as possible, if I understood the words of Luís Montenegro. Mr President, the teachers are taking an average of 28 years today — 28 years! — to reach the middle of the career. It was important for the Portuguese to know this: a teacher, in order to reach the middle of the career, has to spend, on average, 28 years teaching. Almost no other profession has to work 28 years to reach the middle of the career. This is the direct responsibility of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u27	It's true, well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u28	What I ask you is: how willing is the PSD, how far is the PSD willing to go to make a fair, effective and real counting of the teachers' time of service?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u30	Because it is very important, Mr President, that the right start to have a clear position on this matter. The teachers deserve to be counted on the time of service they lost and that has been frozen since the years of the troika and José Socrates. What we ask is how far the PSD is willing to go in this time count and whether they are willing to follow the arrival in order to make a great effort to fully recover the time of service of the teachers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u31	To reply, Mr António Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u32	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mrs Joana Mortágua and Mr André Ventura for the questions put. Responding directly to Mrs Joana Mortágua, I wanted to know what is the problem of the Block with the measurement tests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u33	We know what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u34	If the problem has to do with our draft resolution, in which we clearly say what the government will have to do to improve and value the teaching career, we are at ease, as it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u35	But concreteize!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u36	But it's up to the government to rule. That is why you are ruling, so you have the mandate of the Portuguese people. The PSD does not interfere in negotiations between the government and the unions, of course! [[All right!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u37	You're asking me how would the time count be done, how would the vacancies be eliminated by 5 o'clock. a is 7. The stairs? The data belong to the government, the responsibility of the government, is not the PSD. PSD is not ruling. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to quotas, Mrs Deputies, I remember that these are transversal to the entire Public Administration, and we do not confuse quotas here with vacancies. I think the PSD position there is quite clear:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u38	I didn't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u39	...we think, by 5:00. a is 7. the steps, the government must negotiate, evaluate, sit at the table with the unions and discuss to meet the claims, both the teachers, the government, and the country, which is what we are interested in. It started by talking about housing, but the PSD, still days ago, presented its project for housing. Today, we're talking about education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u41	On other issues of yours, I am very surprised that the Bloc will now criticise the PSD for the past. Speak to our previous leaders, but you've been linked for six years to support the Socialist Party's policy! [[PSD applause.]] It's true. Therefore, and as a result, the public school has reached the state it has arrived! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u42	That is why more and more families are choosing private education instead of public school! [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] You have responsibilities on that. Mr Ventura, on your question about working time, which I would like to thank, what the PSD has to say — and I repeat — is that it is up to the government to decide, together with the unions, to negotiate and to know what will be effectively recovered. Now, what we think is that there may be creative measures that go to meet both teachers, trade unions and public accounts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u43	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Lúcia Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, I have listened carefully to your speech and I regret to say - but in fact, he did not present anything again. He did not present anything new or solutions; he just pointed his finger.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u45	That's true there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u46	It is regrettable, for anyone who wants to be the alternative government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u47	Well, it's just going out and we rule, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u48	The PSD continues to be equal to itself: with the prejudice and social conservatism it has always presented and defended for public school. The PSD wants to go back to the past, in the days of Nuno Crato, which destroyed the building of equal opportunities that lasted four decades to build and that the PSD wanted to lead to social ruin.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u50	You destroyed him!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u51	The PSD maintains in the draft law under discussion the external assessment and that the measurement tests are applied to the 4. it's 6. the years—i.e. at the end of the cycle— with universal and compulsory character. The PSD further argues that the classifications obtained can be used to weigh the final classification of the student in 4. it's 6. the years of schooling, according to the choice of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u52	It's lack of faith! The PS doesn't trust schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u53	I mean, the ladies. PSD members want to return to the wrong and harmful evaluation models and, camouflagely, defend the return to the final cycle exams. [[Exactly! The PSD solution is the return to the exams!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u54	It's all going very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u55	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the people who are outside to hear us understand this discussion, the question is asked: why do students make proofs of measurement in the 2nd. o, 5. it's 8. the years of schooling and not in the other years? I'll answer it. Students do the measurement tests in the 2nd. o, 5. it's 8. the years of schooling, first, to return information to the system, so that you have an overview of how students are learning in each school, class and national level. Students do the measurement test in the 2nd. o, 5. it's 8. the years of education to return information to schools, teachers, students and educators, because it is important that everyone know what the student is doing, what the student has already learned and where he can and should improve. And the school itself can define action strategies to review or strengthen the school project and may even change educational policies. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not want to go back to the past, but rather prepare the future. at first, are evidenced the principles and the vision by which the educational evaluation is guided. in the second moment, the values and competences to be developed, with the support and collaboration of all: schools, teachers, authorities and the educational community. And, in conclusion, the question that I leave to the honourable Member is whether the solution for the PSD is actually to return to the examinations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u56	For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Cunha, in the face of the challenge of teachers, parents and students, the PSD here did an exercise, in its intervention, seeking to sweep beneath the carpet its options and responsibilities in the state of degradation of the public school. We don't forget the de-investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u58	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u59	We do not forget the PSD government's attempt to send out more teachers in our country, with more than 20,000 hired teachers who have not been placed. We also remember that the PSD imposed dual education, a segregation of young people at a young age in public school, to separate those who can progress in the studies of workers' children, who do not have access to the highest levels of education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u60	These were the responsibilities and that was the mark of the PSD in its governance: the deinvestment, the degradation of the public school and the questioning of equality, this principle that our Constitution enshrines. [[PSD protests.]] But I would like to ask you a few questions, because you made a number of statements about public school and about teachers. Tell me there, the time of service of the teachers that has not yet been counted is to tell or not? Or is it to tell as much time as possible? What does that mean? Or does the PSD admit that there was a blackout of the time of service provided by teachers in schools? We would also like to know something about learning. One of the fundamental issues for the recovery and improvement of student learning is the reduction in the number of students per class, and I remember that the PSD, when it was government, increased it. What is your position on this? Draw young people into the profession and bind them? Valuation of careers? How? In his speech, he said that he is not a government and has no responsibilities. But, after all, does the PSD have a position on what the public school should be and its appreciation? Because the PSD practice — it became clear — is in the sense of its degradation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u61	In reply, Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u62	Mr President, I thank Mrs Lúcia Araújo da Silva and Mrs Paula Santos for her questions. I am puzzled when, almost seven years later, they continue to blame the PSD for your bad performance and when, to that, they join the PCP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u63	Well, this is not just intellectual dishonesty anymore; this is total political irresponsibility! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Lúcia Araújo da Silva, regarding the measurement tests, it was not the PSD that dismantled an information source that had been collected to evaluate students and the educational system since 2001. [[PSD applause.]] At the age of management, you broke this source of data. The problem is that the left... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ...you think any evaluation that takes place has to be punitive. It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u64	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u65	The evaluation is to improve the system, improve learning. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u66	The evaluation serves to fix the social elevator, which you don't want. You broke the social elevator. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] So, as far as external assessments are concerned, we have a deep dissonance: we think that when we end the external assessments of the 4. it's 6. the years, with which you are finished,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u67	You guys? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u68	... you can't evaluate the performance of students and the education system, and that's why the public school is like it is. That is why you do not want to evaluate curriculum flexibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u69	Sure! It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u70	Let's take some tests. Or are we just going to stay for international studies, PISA and TIMSS, four in four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u72	Will they also end up with TIMSS and PISA once they evaluate the system?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u73	Invent ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u74	No, excuse me! Your educational policy needs to be evaluated and this begins to be evaluated in the performance of students and schools, as is obvious. I am referring again to the proof of measurement in paragraphs 4. it's 6. the years give essential information for the improvement of the system. The student finishes the cycle and is evaluated. It's evaluated, point. [[PS protests.]] No. 2. year 5. the year, no. 8. the year, with rotating areas, in which this year is Portuguese, for the year is Science,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u75	And from the 4th. the e of the 6. o?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u76	...then it's physical activity, excuse me there... for what you wanted the proof of measurement, especially in the artistic areas, there was no need to make proof of measurement, it was enough to do a survey of what existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u77	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u78	You introduced the evidence of measurement and didn't even know if the schools were able to carry them out. That's irresponsibility! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u79	To submit Bill No. 575 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Projects 492, 493, 494 and 495 / XV / 1. a, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this scheduled debate on education, the Liberal Initiative presents a set of proposals relating to proof of measurement and examinations, the recovery of learning, the hiring of teachers in private and cooperative education and the recovery of edifice in public schools. That's five proposals. On the examinations and evidence of measurement, we present two concrete proposals. As for the proof of measurement, we argue that the periodicity of the 4. it's 6. the years, i.e. at the end of each cycle. The line of reasoning is clear, with the objectives and curricular goals defined by cycles, in respect of the autonomy of schools in the organization of the learnings of the cycle itself, allowing an analysis and flexibility in the management of the curriculum by each school, as well as in the stability of the history of evaluations. Long series of data are needed, but this seems to be always ignored in policies in Portugal. Compulsory assessment tests are essential, either as a regulatory element, or as a balance between the autonomy of schools and the evaluation itself. The second draft resolution is on digital evidence No 9. year. What is the current situation? The Minister of Education wishes to see evidence 9. the year is all by digital means,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u81	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u82	... but we ask: are the conditions in schools careful to do so? The answer is obviously not. Is there any possibility of technical assistance during the tests? It doesn't seem like it either, and it can't be like that. But, worse, there are several non-digital teaching methods in several schools. There are schools without network conditions, there are children and young people who have not used computers in the classroom, who have no computer practice, and we ask: will they now be evaluated? What we see is that they come to this Plenary with concerns about the conditions of social reproduction in the evaluations for then everything to forget, and, before a good newspaper title or with tips of modernism, they say that we will have digital evidence for everyone. But then, no, thank you! The Liberal Initiative has accompanied the issue of dematerializing digital manuals—and now also evidence—with concern, because it wants to ensure effective implementation capacity, always with the concern that reproductions of social inequalities are not aggravated. Thus, with this project, we intend to review the conditions for the implementation of the generalized digital evidence for the students of 9. the year; that a digital test model is shared in good time with the entire school community; that it is guaranteed that there will be no harm to students with the change to the paper tests; and that the schools are guaranteed conditions for monitoring technical and operational problems during the tests, with the appropriate infrastructures. Regarding the learning recovery plan, we have had several criticisms since the implementation of robustness at the level of data. For everyone to be clear, it is not known, for example, how many children are covered by the learning recovery plan. The effectiveness of the measures is not evaluated, and this is worrying. We therefore continue — as in the Committee on Education, in the working group, and now, in plenary, with draft resolutions — to fight for us to be more ambitious, so that it will continue for more time, but also for more data to be provided in the intervention and justification of political action. We also aim, with a project, to expedite the hiring of teachers in private and cooperative education, under the autonomy of schools, of contractual freedom, because obviously schools want the best for their students. It does not make sense the qualifications criteria, which we consider appropriate to review for schools in general, and at least in private and cooperative schools, we should simplify the recruitment criteria, which will contribute to the guarantee of greater supply and greater capacity to respond to children. Since this is a will of the schools and, I reiterate, not implying an obligation, there is no reason for the project not to be approved. The Liberal Initiative considers that more needs to be done to empower the competence of recruitment in private and cooperative education. At present, private and cooperative education must follow the qualifications rules in force for state public education, and teachers need to be professionalized or holders of their own qualifications. Schools should have more autonomy in terms of hiring. I reiterate that we stand for this for all, but at least today it is approved for private and cooperative education. What is intended is that there is a possibility of recruiting professionals with certain profiles, who can respond to the needs felt and the educational project of each institution. Contractual autonomy does not pose a risk of lowering the quality of education, on the contrary. The diversity of contributions, the greatest possibility of choice, due to the existence of greater supply, and the obvious interest of institutions in ensuring quality, as well as the possibility of continuing the training processes in the work context, make there a guarantee of quality, opening doors to a more prepared and open school, adapted to the diversity of students. Finally, we ended up with a project for which we could hardly understand leaving here today without its approval. Under the education decentralization agreement, the Government undertook to intervene in 451 schools. They are schools that should have priority intervention and is a promise to fulfill for months. [[PS Deputy Protests Eunice Silvers.]] The Liberal Initiative considers this to be a fundamental issue. The government fails children, it fails teachers and non-teachers, and now the PS also fails in the building itself, in the facilities. Let's remember: the PS and the government have come here to make declarations of love to the public school, but what we see is their devalue; they talk about decentralization, but they fail in the commitments they have made with the municipalities. We are talking about schools that have problems, with bathrooms needing works, schools where it rains, schools where there is a lack of heating, schools with a lack of accessibility for reduced mobility. And this, all over the country! But then they come here to talk about valuing the school, in motivating and learning environments, in schools with conditions to take digital exams, across the country. And at the same time, they act with money and exhibit, with pride, plans and funds that are then not executed. It is that in school and in education, the government is not fulfilling the minimums, when we should be, yes, pointing to the maximums. What we are demanding is that the government comply. We are voting, demanding, and therefore we urge the PS to follow up and approve our draft resolution, so that the Government expressly disclose which schools intervention under the agreement with the municipalities; that it urgently discloses the schedule of recovery and rehabilitation of 451 schools; and that it allows this House, the municipalities, the families, the provision of information to follow up the implementation of the plan. All these measures that we present today for education are important, they make the difference and we fight for each of them. In general, it is also clear that there is a need for reform in education, but it is also necessary to reform the government. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u83	The Bureau shall record three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u84	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u85	To make the first request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u86	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro, what the IL here proposes is not the measurement of the system, but the evidence of the 4. the year goes by for the note. So my question is this: the IL believes that its image of a modern and European party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u87	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u88	... is compatible with the 4th exam cult. the class of Salazar, of the time of the single book, of the « God, Fatherland and Family »? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u89	And work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u90	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Barroso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one in five Portuguese is poor and almost 23 % of children and young people of compulsory school age live at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to Eurostat ( European Statistics ) data. They are extremely worrying data, considering that this is one of the predictors of success in the performance of students, with a more relevant impact on children in more vulnerable family contexts. However, the government, which is said to be socialist, does not protect the most disadvantaged. In seven years, it seems to have forgotten that the percentage of schoolchildren remained, except in 2020, and that this is not compatible with the socio-economic situation in which families are currently living — strangled, suffocated — to pay for increased housing, food or energy costs. Let us look at the examples, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for this government, only the poorest can have step A, and even these receive only €16 for acquisition of school materials and study visits. Does that sound good enough to you? [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] More: a couple in which they both receive the minimum order, can no longer have social support for their minor child. Does that sound fair to you? Is that how we want to promote equal opportunities? For the PSD, the school social action effectively has to fulfill the designs of its objectives of true social elevator for children and young people living in social and economic inequalities. This is why the PSD presented a set of measures, in particular: to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of the school social action steps, through the step To cover the steps 1 and 2 of the family allowance; to increase the values of support sharing; to speed up the allocation of the grant of merit to students who go to or already attend secondary school; and to promote interoperability among computer systems that calculate the value of support for students who are already in the educational system. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the government has not given an answer for social action at school, we are very concerned, like the Liberal Initiative, when we speak in the learning recovery plan. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) compared the ability of different education systems to respond to the challenges of confinement and Portugal stood out for not having rigorously assessed or taken any substantive measures to counter the effects of the pandemic on learning. Not the municipalities and teachers in our country, the consequences of the pandemic would have been much worse. If the IAVE ( Institute of Educational Assessment, I.P. ) identifies the existence of additional difficulties in mathematics, together with reading difficulties in younger students; if the National Council of Education reveals that the retention rate was higher, compared to the previous school year, in all years of schooling, with special incidence in basic education; then, it is necessary to act and revise Plan 21 23 School + with as much speed as possible, because this plan is not being achieved. For this reason, it understands the PSD that this plan has to be strengthened with a set of measures, some of which coincide with those of the Liberal Initiative, which are effectively focused on students, so that no student is left behind, as we are concerned about everyone. I therefore recommend to the Government the promotion of impact assessment — which, in fact, the previous programme is being carried out and is not being carried out — by monitoring, monitoring and public disclosure of its developments. I propose to strengthen its functioning, extend its duration until 2026 and extend the learning recovery plan with a larger horizon, allowing the autonomous way of public schools, in a tutoring work, for example; ensure conditions for the involvement of communities in promoting summer schools, or other solutions that reconcile the recovery of learning with the play area and which favour students with special educational needs; strengthen the training of teachers, to improve digital skills in the field of learning evaluation. Mrs Carla Castro, considering the above, will the Liberal Initiative follow the PSD in the initiatives she proposes E in the measures that you are listing here? We believe that the important thing is that the State ensures that all students have access to the same resources and opportunities, in order to promote social justice and to build a fair society. We are confident that we will have the Liberal Initiative in the adoption of the measures that we have tabled, as the PSD now reports that it will follow the Liberal Initiative in which it accompanies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u93	Education is not accompanied by rhetorical discussions and needs a collective reinforcement, which enables the State to strengthen support for all children and young people, in accordance with the needs they show, so as not to mortgage the future of new generations in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u94	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Eunice Pratas of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, the Liberal Initiative brings us to debate a bill and four draft resolutions, which, before the evidence and what is already the reality of our teaching, leads me to conclude the following: the Liberal Initiative reveals a vision about education in Portugal that we do not follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u96	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u97	The Bill No. 575 / XV / 1. the proposal proposes to carry out measurement tests in the 4. it's 6. the years, when the measured evaluation has, and meets, two clear objectives: to provide information to the system and educational community, so that the results are taken advantage of and applied. This bill does not allow this use, but the model in effect, yes! The current model requires schools to... There were demonstrations of public protest in the galleries, which slammed and turned back to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u98	Your Honor, I beg your pardon. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of evacuating the people who are manifesting themselves in the gallery.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u99	They're socialists! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u100	Mrs. Deputy, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u101	Mr President, he said that the current model requires schools to develop action plans on information obtained in the evaluations of this model with the dynamisation of IAVE. The Resolution Project No. 494 / XV / 1. it asks for assurances in the re-evaluation of the digitisation of the measurement tests of 9. year. However, the dematerialization of the tests greatly simplifies the processes and routines associated with the final evaluations. A pilot project has already been implemented, with positive results, in performing the measurement tests, which demonstrates the confidence that we should have in these methods. This project made it possible to verify that there are no significant differences between the performance of the tests in paper or digital format. Three modalities for carrying out electronic evidence have been taken into account to ensure that assessments are always carried out. Final cycle tests in digital format are being applied in a sample of pre-defined schools to correct and improve any difficulties and constraints before the generalisation of final electronic tests in 2024. That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative, I ask you to clarify the following: will it not be necessary for IL to study the subject, understand that these data are really important and give us proposals to improve education in Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u102	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u103	That's a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u104	He never worked in life,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u105	...now he's coming here. You know what it is! [[PS Deputy Protests Eunice Silvers.]] I should be quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u106	In reply, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u107	Mr President, thank you first of all for the questions. I'm going to start by responding to Deputy Joana Mortagua. I don't know if it's a distraction, if it's a fun maneuver, but there's no obligation for the evidence to count for the evaluation, there's flexibility of the evidence, and it's quite explicit, to count for the evaluation. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] I repeat, because we understand that the Left Block is not very favourable to evaluation and merit policies, but the Liberal Initiative is in favour of evaluation and merit policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u108	Merit in 1-year-olds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u109	... is in favour of the possibility of autonomy in schools for definition and, yes, the tests of measurement are fundamental. With regard to the qualification of « modern », as I said, I can begin by telling you that I do not think this appropriate, but it is preferable to be associated with « modern » rather than with delays, as is the case with the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u111	To evaluate the merit of a 9-year-old child? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u112	With regard to the PSD interventions, which I am very grateful for, there is something in the proposals that is very important - and that we are going to follow in general, yes, because they focus on an essential topic which has often been forgotten and abandoned in the plenary, which is the subject of equal opportunities and also of social action. One thing is to talk about equal opportunities, another thing is to take action and policies consistent with what is said, and what we see is that the government continues to do not. We have, for example, heard a Member of the Socialist Party say that it will simplify the processes on behalf of the most disadvantaged children, which is what we have, that is what happens in practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u113	No, I didn't say that! It is to simplify the process for the teachers, who asked for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u114	We therefore talk and follow up on concerns about the social elevator, about equal opportunities, because, often, what is being said here is about policies of mediocrity that try not to evaluate to improve, that try to seek equality in results and not equal opportunities. Equal opportunities are done, yes, with social action at school, but also with a demanding school. And the demanding school goes through an evaluation, through a rapid intervention, through a culture of intervention in the errors that are detected, because only a demanding school can compensate for what families cannot give. Finally, replying very directly to the question whether it is not possible to study the subjects, I say that it is even necessary to study the subjects, particularly for the intervention you have made here. For example, it says it is returned to the system, but it is not returned to the very system none! [[PS Deputy Protests Eunice Silvers.]] There is no useful information returned for schools to function, for schools to make good use of this information. There is no effective data policy, either of the Ministry or of the Directorates, in relation to schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u115	Don't you? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u116	It is a total lyricism to look at the school park right now, and to think that schools are generally ready to move on to a generalization of digital evidence. Not only is it necessary to study matters such as knowing the Real Country, which clearly the Socialist Party is not doing. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u117	I know the real country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u118	To present the initiatives of the Book, Bill No. 576 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 498 / XV / 1. a, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u119	You've got two minutes, what for? Still over 2 minutes that is 3 minutes, he always talks more than 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u120	Mr President, Caras e Caros Collegas : in a couple of years, Portugal will reach that point where, for the first time, our workforce, almost as a whole, will have been educated in democratic Portugal. A decade after that, virtually all the country's workforce will have been educated in what we could call European Portugal, in the post-86, with an increasingly extensive compulsory education and over years, which means that — and we have stayed for centuries to come here — we will finally be at a level more comparable to that of the other European countries, which, in some cases, had already reached many generations before us, or even centuries, as I have said. However, the question of education is more than a qualification of labour force, it is more than a mere acquisition of knowledge. It has to do with the formation of citizens, it has to do with the creation of a collective community, a common community, and it has to do with, in the context that we speak here, in the post-pandemic, with the recovery of learning. This must be the moment in which Portugal is no longer just running behind the European Union's average, but seeking, in the educational reforms it has to do, the way of positioning itself, with a certain vanguard, in our own region of the world. The Free Paper has presented many proposals at this level, ranging from — and I fear it in the programme, since 2015 — the full recovery of teachers' time to the proposals we are presenting today, which have to do with the fair compensation of teachers who have to move more than 60 km away from their place of residence, example of what is happening in public service, and above all with the reduction of the number of students per class. Faces and Dear Colleagues, there is a quote that the pedagogues really like — their author is unknown, lost in the night of the times — which says that «Education is not like filling a bucket, education is like watering a plant». This means that it can't recover learning, simply by putting the double of the water that would have gotten into the time when the learnings were missing;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u121	Time is running out! It's twice as much time, which is what he always does!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u122	... and that does not treat all the student and all the student in the same way, because each one lacks special attention. In order to have a teaching focused on each student, which gives more empowerment, more ability to work as a team, more creativity, we need to give attention to each and every one of them, more attention on the part of their teachers and, on the part of their teachers and teachers, more ability to pay attention to them. Because the potential of our children and young people is the future of the country and we cannot lose it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u123	Are you done? Hey, man, we're still 1 minute away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u124	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the parliamentary group in the near future.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The salary and career issues of teachers, which we are discussing, are fundamental, but it is no less essential to fight bureaucracy immediately. Without this conjugation it is not possible to dignify teachers and pacify schools. I welcome the PSD for this initiative. The problem — and I am now addressing the PSD, which still has time to intervene — is that the PSD requires urgent measures, but then it does not present any consequent proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u126	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u127	The coming party is incisive, and I make this clear to all other parties: bureaucracy in schools must be fought for having a very negative impact, I would say even pathological,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u128	...in two very precise nuclei. First, in regulating student attitudes and behaviors, and I'm talking about indiscipline; and second, in evaluating students' school results, and I'm talking about facilitation. Since two projects on the evaluation were presented here, I will make comments on this. I refer to the PSD bill, which refers to external evaluation and measurement tests, and to the Liberal Initiative project, which does something similar. I would like to make it clear to all of this Parliament that there is a very different direction. We clearly defend a clear frontier between the right and the left in this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u129	That is, we are right because we say yes, without hesitation, to national examinations at the end of the cycle. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The left—and Mr Rui Tavares can react! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u130	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u131	... lives from the culture of « examocide», i.e. from the genocide of national examinations made, decades ago, at the head of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u133	For us, it is indisputable: the less national exams, the less the quality of school and public school in the middle classes and the less disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u134	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u135	The question I leave — especially for the PSD, which, as it still has time, may comment on, but the Liberal Initiative, unfortunately, does not — is whether, as the party arrives, the PSD and the IL go, or not, to defend national examinations at the end of the first cycle, 4. the year; at the end of the second cycle, 6. the year; at the end of the third cycle, 9. the year; and at the end of secondary school, 10. o and 11. years? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Will the PSD and the Liberal Initiative defend national exams with effective weight in the transition or reprobation of students? Yes or no? It agrees that these two parties would make it very clear whether they would establish red lines and sanitary cords in relation to national examinations or whether they would establish red lines and sanitary cords in relation to the teaching policies of the Socialist Party and of the whole left. It was good if they decided on one thing or another. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u136	On behalf of the Bureau, in time we did not realize that the Socialist Party had registered a Member to make a request for clarification to Mr Rui Tavares — which also has no time to answer. In any event, the Socialist Party has the right to make the request for clarification, if so understood and, for that reason, has the floor to Mrs Catarina Lobo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u137	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, brings us the theme of reducing the number of students per class. It may be a current concern for the Free, but for the PS it is already an old concern, so that in the 21st Government we eliminated the exacerbated increase in the number of students per class, introduced by the PSD / CDS, effort which, in fact, the Free recognizes that it has been done. However, over the past few years, we have to ask ourselves whether we are still at this stage looking at reducing the number of students by class in a universal and automatic way as the basic strategy to respond to the challenges of the teaching/learning process or whether we have already advanced and are in another phase. Now, we do not ignore that the number of students per class has an impact on the dynamics of the classroom, but it is not the only variable that counts. Therefore, we are already at another stage, we are already walking towards allowing schools to adopt flexible curricular and organizational solutions that allow them to deepen the educational differentiation measures and thus respond to their realities, for example, to manage the number of students per class according to the needs identified or the teaching methodologies to be adopted. These dynamic classes result, in fact, from a measure of the plan of learning recovery, in the area of curriculum autonomy. This means that the class, as an administrative unit, may undergo changes based on criteria of a pedagogical nature. We could also talk about the formation of educational teams, a measure that can be put at the service of dynamic classes, with a strong transformer potential, because it requires and deepens the collaborative work between teachers and specialized technicians. It is true that the draft law of the Book refers, and I quote, that « in the constitution of groups and classes must prevail criteria of a pedagogical nature» — and we agree on this – but then I ask: how is it that the solution presented is merely administrative, with the particularity of limiting the autonomy of schools, requiring the approval of classes by DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments )? It gives us the idea that the Free has a real concern, which was also ours, but the PS has evolved. And will the Free Member evolve as well? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u138	The PS Parliamentary Group now speaks again for an intervention through Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in the middle of this debate and it is important that we return to what brings us here. In fact, the PSD has marked this debate to present its alternative policy for the Portuguese education system, and it is noteworthy that we have had to arrive almost the last week provided for in the protocol of negotiations between the government and the trade unions for the PSD of this sign of life in this House. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] It took more than three months of negotiations, more than 90 days, 2160 hours for the PSD to tell what's coming and coming to play, in this House, to try to do more than what you've done here in education matters. In fact, he did and did it with five initiatives that are illustrative. They are illustrative because they present us with only one certainty: that the PSD has made a great deal of effort, it has really worked hard to circumvent all the issues that are in negotiations with the unions. Let us see : he did not speak of the Pedagogic Zone Frameworks ( QZP ), he did not speak of the dynamic binding, he did not speak of the graduated list. Basically, he talked about everything except what is under discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u140	You don't know anything you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u141	It's true! He didn't really talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u142	There is, in fact, a whole world away from what the PSD said was going to discuss here and what it actually presented. I would say that it is also remarkable that these proposals highlight not only the lack of political commitment, but also the lack of guidance. In fact, by taking out the subjects relating to examinations, the PSD is unable to present a single line for our country's educational policy. So much so that no criticism is fair to the content of the PSD proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u143	He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u144	As such, I propose to quote the PSD proposals, for they are accurate of fine parliamentary prosecuting. I have to get back to this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this political moment which the PSD here brings to us. The PSD touched the wound and proposed—see! — and I quote that «legal mechanisms» were created. It has already been asked which legal mechanisms, but the PSD does not say. It was inflamed and asked, and I quote again, to "take structural and urgent measures, attracting young people to initial teacher training courses". I totally agree. Which ones? He doesn't say. And, unsatisfied, he hits his hand at the table, with extreme revolt, and I also demand that « create conditions» or « adopt the necessary measures » or « enter into negotiations ». The question is: where does the PSD want to go? What do you propose? What are these mechanisms? He doesn't say. Don't say, one more time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u145	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can stay here all afternoon, but in fact, there is no better opposition to the PSD than the proposals it brings us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have to ask, where is the party that two or three years ago defended that we had more teachers? Where is the party that lends itself to the reel of the full accounting of the time of service of the teachers and which today presents itself here so worn out?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u146	It's over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u147	Where is the party that did not vote in favour of free school textbooks? [[It's over there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u148	The gentlemen. Members are insurgent and they do not like us talking about the time of the troika and the 28 000 teachers we have taken out of the system, but when they are called to talk about what they stand for the future, what they bring us is nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u149	We need the PS to get out of the government quickly! It's not easy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u150	Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members, the PSD has proposed to us a debate to present its future vision for education, but the truth is that it has failed once again. Thus, there is a question that needs to be asked, which is whether the PSD defends something for education, besides creating more exams.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u151	The PS handles a little bit badly with the surveillance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u152	This question is a direct question—it is a challenge that I am launching here! — which must be answered without candles, without zigzags. This is because either: either the PSD has nothing to add to the debate or brings back, under the arm, a hidden program and therefore lends itself to these roles. I have to remind you that the gentlemen. PSD Members have been in opposition for seven years...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u153	And the PS has been in government for seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u154	...and what you have to present is little more than nothing. [[Listen, listen!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u155	I repeat, there are seven years in the opposition and, by the way, seven years do not arrive to present an alternative and what they bring us here is once again a embarrassment to the alternative they want to build.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u156	It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u157	I therefore end with a challenge, because the PS is available for debate, it is open to criticism in this House every day, every week, as we do, indeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u158	It is available for debate, as long as it is not with people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u159	However, in order to criticize the opposition as a consequence, it must be taken as an alternative to the measures they criticize. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the PSD, we invite them to say what they are defending, to take up your alternative, so that it is finally possible to debate in the field of concrete. I'm sure that's what the Portuguese want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u160	The honourable Member has four requests for clarification which I believe he will answer together. For the first request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u161	Mr President, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, there is a very clear question which you have left here to ask the PSD what is the alternative to government policy. I will answer that: for the recent past, none! I recall the cover of a newspaper, which says: "The political crisis is over. Right joins PS and lead full recovery of teachers’ time of service». The speaker showed the document she mentioned. And it wasn't the Left Block, it wasn't the PCP, it wasn't even the PAN that abstained from that vote. It was the PSD who voted alongside the Socialist Party to prevent teachers from recovering their time of service. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, it is not worth coming with maneuvers to distract the teachers of this vote, which happened. The PSD may have changed his mind, he may want to apologize, but the truth is he doesn't. He doesn't even admit that he was wrong, he doesn't apologize, he doesn't have an alternative. Then there is another question that arises here, which is: what is the alternative that PS has to do with PS? The truth is, Mr President, that the teachers have already made it clear that they have to correct this injustice of recovery of service time, in which the PS has arranged an esdruxula formula for teachers to receive much less than the time they had been frozen. Therefore, while the other civil servants received all the time they had frozen, having been counted for the career, the teachers had much less than half of that time. That is why my question is: how does it progress in negotiations without solving the question of recovery of service time? As the negotiations progress, without solving the problem of access to 5. a is 7. The stairs? How does the Government propose, in negotiations, to oblige teachers to link displaced persons without providing financial support for these trips and for housing when they are displaced? Thus, and because we know that the PSD has no alternative to this government and policies that have clearly been unacceptable, at least insufficient to solve the problem of lack of teachers and the public school crisis—which is directly related to the issue of lack of teachers— our question is: what is the alternative that the Socialist Party has to what the Government has done that clearly is not a solution for the public school or to solve the teacher crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u162	For a request for clarification, I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, after having seen the Socialist Party in the State Budget reject proposals aimed at ensuring greater social action and support for students, today we again have this debate in the Assembly of the Republic. However, what we see is that, once again, the PS does not bring anything new and the same can be said of the other proposals, namely the recovery of teaching time, and what is needed to ensure the reversal of the aging pyramid of the teaching class itself. Again, what we have found is that instead of bringing solutions to this debate, they have come to question what the opposition does. Now, here you have arrived, Mr President, it is clear that the parliamentary group itself, which has the absolute majority, is in total disorientation. In other words, it does not bring solutions to the debate and the only thing it does is to reject the proposals that parties like the NAP here have brought over the past few months and which aim to dignify the public school and resume the teaching career. In view of this, I would like to ask you three very specific questions. First: does it make any sense to maintain the remarkable inequality today between the teachers of the continent and the teachers of the autonomous regions, by continuing to deny the recovery of the years of service subtracted from the teachers? Second: does it make sense to you that, repeatedly, if you continue to start the school year with more than 60 000 students who do not have teachers at least one discipline without doing nothing to fight what has been the degradation of the teaching career and its lack of attractiveness? Finally: it makes some sense to you that we have this iron arm, at a time when we should be discussing how we are going to fight this demographic pyramid, which has reversed and is aging, knowing that in a few years we will not have enough teachers to maintain a quality education. So I ask you, Mr President, whether you are going to continue refugees in this absolute majority bubble or whether you are finally available to meet the opposition proposals. This is because it has become clear that they do not know which path and they have to ask systematically the opposition to which path to take.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u164	Hit hands in Inês!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u165	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, began by accusing the PSD of circumventing central education issues, and we agree that there is a lack of capacity for the PSD to talk about education. But, precisely to focus the debate on public school, on what is necessary, we are talking about a central theme that is that of the teachers. It is that there is no public school without this main factor that is its professionals and teachers, and that the degradation of public school is largely related to the authentic ill-treatment that teachers have been voted upon. Therefore, the question I put to you, very directly, is if there are no longer enough 40 000 students who do not have teachers, if there are no longer thousands of teachers who have been with precarious links for 15, 20, 30 years, if it is not enough the situation that is set up at this level to in fact recognize the right to a fair career, with progress, without hesitation to block this progression, with effective accounting of the time that has been effectively worked. What more does the Socialist Party, after all, need to take steps to solve the problems of public school? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u167	For a request for clarification, Mr Ventura has now given the floor to Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u168	Mr President, Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, I continue to maintain the initial point: it seems very strange to us that some Members who have approved six socialist budgets speak of the suitability of the PSD or any other party on morality in education. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] He said that the PSD had no proposals to respond specifically to what the PS proposes, so perhaps today is the PS day to come to this Parliament to say what it really does. The Minister of Education — who I think the PS supports — said he only advocates exams for access to higher education. So, what Mr. Minister of the Socialist Party defends is here,... The speaker posted a newspaper news on the subject. ...it has not been invented anywhere, it is here: it is the total banner in teaching, in which there is no evaluation during no time for how many phases. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is the "see if you're avid" to see if they happen and if they don't, they're going through with it—that's what the PS defends and that's what's here. [[PS protests.]] It is necessary for the honourable Member to say today whether the Socialist Party's bench looks at the fact that there are only examinations for higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u170	Therefore, there are no more stage tests; there must be one day exams.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u171	Stop being a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u172	It was important to know what the PS proposes on this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u173	The seven years of government answer that question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u174	... because you cannot come here saying that the PSD does not carry out, does not specify, does not clarify, but then does not say what the PS defends. But more important than that, Mr President, we had five days ago this same Minister of Education saying that he opened the door to the recovery of teachers' career time — whatever it may be. Two days before this interview, we had the Prime Minister saying that it excluded counting the time of service of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u175	Exactly! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u176	Mr President, you cannot come here to accuse other parties of having no proposals or of not realizing, when within the PS is the absolute and total confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u177	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u178	There is the Prime Minister saying one thing, there is the Minister of Education saying another and you say another thing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And we cannot have the Prime Minister to say one thing, the Minister of Education to say another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u179	Your TV set is broken!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u180	...and Porfírio Silva screaming here in Parliament. [[CH's laughs.]] I mean, that's not possible! It's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u182	It shows the disorientation in which the Socialist Party is. So, honourable Member, this is the time to clarify... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr. Porfirio Silva, be calm, then at night you have Twitter to express your absolute frustrations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u183	2:00 in the morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u184	Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, today is the day to answer this:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u185	What's your left hand? The right's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u186	... how much will the PS admit on the teacher's time of service count? How much?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u188	No conversation, no scissors, for the people there know: how much? Two: what tests do you defend and at what stage? Mr. Deputies, it's not hard to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u189	I knew it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u190	It is only a clear and objective answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u191	But what are the questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u192	So the PS tells the country what it wants, instead of accusing others of saying what they don't mean. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u193	To reply, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I must confess that I expected, at least, that the PSD had something to question the Socialist Party after being asked to present a somewhat more round-the-clock proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u195	All right! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u196	It will certainly stay another time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u197	Stay for the annals of history!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u198	... for another debate in which he certainly feels more comfortable than in the debate in which he presents his proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But Mr. André Ventura, indeed, came to do the honors on the right...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u199	The level at which this came!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u200	... and came to ask us something absolutely extraordinary, which is the Socialist Party's proposal for the completion examinations of secondary education and the model of access to higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u201	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u202	It was probably wrong, but the proposal has already been put forward. If you want, I can get you both the document and the video link of the presentation that was made in Coimbra. And, having not had the opportunity to read, you will certainly have the opportunity to document yourself for the next debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u203	You have time now, explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u204	...and come here, actually, bring up a question that is coincidentally.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u205	Leiam, leiam! Work, but read, to understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u206	As to the questions of the Left Block, the PAN and the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u207	So you don't answer anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u208	Ask Porfírio!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u209	... there's a question that, in fact, is making you very nervous. Members of the European Parliament — and I will go there — and that has to do with the full counting of the time of service. [[CH protests.]] If you will allow me, I will speak of this matter with the seriousness it requires, because, in fact, it would be a lack of sense to come here without recognizing the frustration of the people who, having worked, do not see this time counted entirely for their career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u211	But it is important to say that these matters are deeply difficult, as the debate we have had so far was deeply difficult...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u212	Maybe the best thing is to talk to the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u213	... and that the discussion we had was precisely the one that allowed us to lead to the defrosting of careers in a sustained way, so that we don't have to go back to freezing them again. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This also allowed 90 % of the teachers to progress at least two steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u214	And we don't give a shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u215	Ask me what is the Socialist Party's alternative to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u216	What are the exams? You never answer again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u217	I assume that the question is rhetorical, and more rhetorical is the People, Animals and Nature party to ask what brings the Socialist Party back to the debate. I say to you, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, brings the link between 10 500 teachers, which I do not think is irrelevant; the reorganization of the 10 tables of the pedagogical area in 63 ; the correction of surpluses and the strengthening of the placement by the graduated list; the change to the rates of remuneration for the employed teachers; the extension of vacancies in 5. a is 7. The stairwell. Does it seem little to you, Mrs. Member? [[PSD protests.]] It doesn't look like us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u219	I say more, responding also to Mrs Alma Rivera, it was precisely because we recognized that more had to be done in the course of the teachers we went forward to this negotiation process. And that is why we met many of the demands expressed by the unions: the resizing of the QZP ; the transition of the current to the new QZP ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u220	And what are the tests? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u221	... the principle of professional graduation; the dynamic linkage; the rates of remuneration for hired teachers; the possibility of linkage in school frameworks and frameworks, in the terms in which it is proposed; the correction of surpluses; the criteria for opening seats; the way in which it has advanced in the management of teaching human resources and the way in which we are discussing local management.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u222	And the exams, what are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u223	Honestly, if anyone can be accused of having no proposals, it will certainly not be the Socialist Party. In fact, if so, we were not discussing the trade union negotiations that we are doing and that are taking place, precisely because we have decided that it is important to move forward, because we recognize that more can be done and that it is possible to do better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[They didn't answer anything!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u224	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u225	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The PSD presents itself today with five initiatives, with emphasis on what it says to seek to value the teaching career and teachers' salaries, to start the discussion on the model of evaluation and recovery of service time and even to eliminate it—it seems — the barriers to access to 5. a is 7. The steps. There is also no lack of proposals for the deburocratization of teaching work and for social action at school. This package, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a kind of detergent with which the PSD aims to whiten its past, until very recently,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u226	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u227	... in relation to the evils you have practised, particularly in the latest PSD/CDS government, so that we do not go back and to the ways of voting in the years and in the coolest months.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u228	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u229	We cannot forget the indelible brand of PSD/CDS governance in the development of mega-groupings—even with the original responsibility of the PS—; the creation of the norm-work; the school contracts, repealed in 2016;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u230	Listen up, listen up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u231	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u232	... proof of the knowledge and competence of teachers, then rejected by the Constitutional Court; the programme of so-called'rescisions by mutual agreement of teachers' — and now complain of the lack of teachers! — the increase in the number of pupils per class ; the reduction of educational assistants and other workers ; the closure of public schools and the reduction of the financing of education from 4, 8 % of GDP (gross domestic product) in 2010 to 3, 9 % in 2012 while increasing private finance through, inter alia, teaching check. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] I also recall the curricular reform with the extinction of disciplines such as Civic Training, Project Area or Accompanied Study; and the devaluation of Physical Education, whose note no longer counts for the average — this measured in 2018 —, among other patiferia. So little, in the period in which it is in the opposition, the positions of the PSD regarding public school, career and the conditions of teachers, the problems of students and families pass on to the demand that it is fair to judge their liability in terms of measures and the real barrier of proposals, such as those of the CFP, which would lead to progress in solving the enormous problems affecting schools, students and families. Not to go further — not even in May 2019, at which time the PSD « turned the kiss to the nail» in the recognition of the time of service to teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u234	... we visited the last two years, i.e. also when the PS did not have an absolute majority yet and the PSD could have enabled, if it wanted, positive measures. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] of the 26 PCP initiatives in this period, the PSD — in fact, in line with the PS! — voted against 11 and abstained from so many others. As for the 12 proposals for the State budget for 2023, the PSD stood against seven and abstained in five. The PSD now believes that it defends teachers and their careers, but it was the PSD that, with the PS, it was against the extraordinary linkage of teachers with three or more years of service; it voted against measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and specialized technicians; against the full counting of service time in careers and special bodies; against the reduction of the number of students per class. When it could support, the PSD abstained from employee valuation measures and from the end of the vacancies for progression to the 5. a is 7. the steps, as well as refraining from counting the working time of teachers with incomplete hours or the immediate hiring of all required professionals. The PSD says it is concerned about the social action of school, but it refers to 2024 the change of steps, which the CFP proposed to 2023 and that the serious economic and social situation requires that it be made immediately, a proposal for which, let us remember, the PSD abstained. It was absent from support measures for students in general, the strengthening of social action at school, the freeness of the notebooks, even voting against the freeness of school material. Mrs. Members, it is extensive and compromising the role of measures necessary to improve the conditions of teachers and other professionals, students and their families, which did not, I stress, have the support of the PSD. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u235	Are we government? Oh, my God! To the PS, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u236	And what is required is that the PSD and, now, the PS urgently review their options and open the way to impermeable and just solutions like those that the PCP defends. It's just time, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it continues to run against them, exacerbating the problems from day to day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u237	The honourable Member has a request for clarification for which he has no time to reply, but nevertheless to formulate it, I give the floor to Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alfredo Maia, it is clear in this debate that we are divided into the view that we have of this and several other issues for the country. The first of them is this way that the PCP has always used us to promise everything to everyone. We thought that, since they were co-governing in this country with the Socialist Party in 2015, they should at least be tempted not to come here, for example, to take responsibility for the governance of the country led by the PSD in the time of the troika. [[PCP protests.]] Indeed, when they come to say that the educational system is in degradation, they do not recognize the seven years and six budgets of the State that have made it possible. [[PSD applause.]] What leads us to believe, Mr Alfredo Maia, that if you were co-governing in this country and, at the time, they could not impose on the Socialist Party any of the proposals that they now say are so obvious, continuing to co-govern Portugal, then it was not so important to recognize the importance of teachers and the demands that they now say are the most important of all. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Another thing that separates us, Mr Alfredo Maia, is that, in fact, when he looks at the teaching system and at public school, the PSD believes in teachers, students and actors and educational agents and does not only recognize the obvious brio, which is so often what saves the public school, every day — the brightness of teachers, the brightness of operational assistants, the brightness of groups, the brightness of each component of educational activity. Our mission here is to monitor the government, to recognize the failures that the system has been creating and that we too, for this or that reason - for example, with the socialist bankruptcy - have unfortunately not been able to correct. That is what we are doing here, Mr, since it is not us who govern. Who governs—there seem to be some doubts here! — it is the Socialist Party, and now even rules alone. [[PCP protests.]] Another thing that distinguishes us, Mr President, is that, in fact, we do not promise everything to everyone, and you know what that means? It means that in 2015 you learned nothing and continue to find, after you co-governed the country, that you can promise everything to everyone and that outside it is worth your respect. We don't believe that. Do you know what we believe? We believe in our oversight function. Do you know what we believe? We believe in proposing, indeed, concrete measures, such as those presented here. Do you know what we believed in? We believed in proposing, in the State budget, that the special career of teachers should accompany the wage valuation that the general careers had. We believed and proposed this, but the Socialist Party led. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Member, do you know what happens when the Social Democratic Party governs? Well, I know, because it has become clear, that there is doubt whether the PS is prepared to govern, whether to ask PSD questions so much, but you know what happens when the PSD rules? It happens as in the Azores and Madeira where it is precisely implementing a model for the recovery of the count of the time of service of teachers! [[PSD applause.]] Do you know the difference between the Azores, Madeira and the continent? It is that we rule in the Azores and Madeira. [[PCP protests.]] On the continent, unfortunately for teachers and Portuguese, the Socialist Party governs. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr. Alfredo Maia, the truth is that there is a lot that separates us, but there is one in which we converge: the PS, without shame, speaks in a country where they do everything well, but outside, thousands manifest themselves against their governance. [[Protests by PS members Eurico Brilliant Dias and Porfírio Silva.]] The PS speaks of a time of the troika, a time when the PSD could not do what, however, it had seven years to do, and even more alone. [[PS and PCP protests.]] What I would like to ask you, Mr, and I would like you to reflect on this, is the following: on which side will you continue to be in the process of clearing up responsibilities? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u239	We haven't changed position!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u240	Mr Agostinho Santa of the Socialist Party now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to believe that the initiatives of the PSD and IL — and in this we praise them — are seeking to extend the learning recovery plan, starting from the assumption that the way in which it was thought and defined is relevant to it. There can be no other conclusion, since no one will want something that doesn't work — or that doesn't work — to continue. Students, schools, education officers, but also the government, who created it, are indebted to the PSD and the IL of the consideration they express. Thank you very much! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Maybe they're right, to the extent that the plan has something of an example. Otherwise, we saw: without precipitation, started a diagnosis, in study, of the IAVE, heard who, on the subject, could say something with interest and handed a group of experts the launch of ideas and the formulation of suggestions and recommendations. It defined, in good time, a plan with diversified and appropriate measures, referred its implementation to the autonomy of schools, from a portfolio of measures that can select and act on them in concrete. He mobilized the services of the Ministry of Education, took into account local educational communities, created monitoring, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] If these PSD and IL initiatives want to pass on the idea that the plan is not getting results, they are blocking the reality of the path made. The essential question, that is, whether the learning recovery plan should continue beyond the end of this school year, and in what terms, it is inevitable and does not bring any novelty into it. The issue is scheduled from the outset, which is included in the Council of Ministers' own resolution approving the plan and which stipulates that the plan should be assessed on its impact, « with a view to weighing the need for subsequent interventions ». It is appropriate to say that there are initiatives that, even making sense, are damaged by the time they appear. In other words, despite the texts having conclusions, which appear to be hasty, the effects desired by the PSD and the IL are legitimate, although formulated before time. The decisions to be taken on this subject should correspond to a mature analysis of the data relating to the implementation of the plan, as will the justice to be recognised. At the outset, it can be supported that, being the good and productive plan, it should be extended over time, taking advantage of, in a strengthened way, potentialities and virtualities. But only the monitoring and evaluation work, which has always been programmed, can reveal this need and its terms. If, among the monitoring instruments, eight studies/reports have already been made available, they must also be decisive, to support the decision on continuity of the learning recovery plan, all of which are expected to be presented by the end of this school year: observational studies in April; exploratory sample studies in June;... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... third and fourth monitoring report in April and July; reports on specific actions developed by various programs and services; second sample study on the diagnosis of learning, already with data collected and under treatment. In line with what was already planned on the subject, we must take good note of the recommendations of the draft resolutions of the PSD and the IL, but for the right time, with data processed, without precipitation and with the absolute sense of responsibility. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] It does not cost us to accept that, having the learning recovery plan revealed the ability to intervene and obtain results, it may perhaps come to continue its course. We will be careful and will be able to wait for the time when, of course, the issue will be raised. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u242	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Rui Cruz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day when everything is reversed, because «the greatest blind is the one who does not want to see». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u244	Indeed, the Socialist Party is great in studies, in working groups, but in concrete measures and in its application on the ground: nothing! [[PSD applause.]] And I say this in the most diverse areas! Over the past 30 years, Mr.Deputy, the Socialist Party has ruled almost 22. at this time, you've been ruling for six years and if there's this whole challenge in school is because you've been well governed? Is it because they have implemented measures? Look, Mr. Member, at something as simple as the disbursing of the teacher's function, you promised changes in 2017, in 2018, in 2022 and in 2023. Question : Has something happened? Nothing has happened strictly nothing! [[PSD applause.]] It is obvious that this obliges the PSD to propose resolutions, bills, replacing the government, since it does not! [[Risos from PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] The honourable Member is now saying 'we are still going to wait'. After all, how many more years do you want to wait? [[PSD applause.]] You want the absolute majority, after all, for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u245	He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u246	Yeah, the problem is, you don't hear anything, you don't hear anything! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is also extraordinary that the far-left parliament, after approving the most fundamental document of government, which is the State budget, dares to propose measures which it was not able to negotiate, because it does not have the courage to demand the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u247	To reply, Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u248	Mr President, honourable Member, by the way, you have tried to hear me well, but I do not know if you have succeeded. Actually, I talked about the learning recovery plan, but I couldn't hear him talk about it. He talked about everything and something else, but I was waiting for you to ask me questions about what I talked about. [[PSD Member Protest Rui Cruz.]] He didn't, but anyway, we're going to talk about measures. Is it only the Socialist Party that talks in studies? The Social Democratic Party is that it also accuses the PS not to allow an OECD study, when we know that OECD has also done other studies. For example, I would like to recall the study Inclusive Education Analysis in Portugal, where OECD talks about historical improvements in access to education in the last 25 years in Portugal. Isn't this nothing? Has it been done with magic veins or with the measures that have been taken? Indeed, there were measures that were effectively taken. Even more: if I now report only, as I must, to the learning recovery plan, we are talking about a allocation of money in the order of EUR 900 million. This year alone, in the State budget, for inclusive education—which has many of the measures that effectively apply in the context of learning recovery—we have EUR 130 million. If this isn't about measures that have been implemented, I don't know what you want most. Studies are fundamental and, indeed, they bring and motivate your draft resolution. In other words, is it possible to consider extending the deadline of a learning recovery plan without conducting studies, without reporting, without thinking about what has been done and what is wanted to be done? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Please, let's be serious, let's talk about what actually brings the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u249	As there are no more speakers in this stage of the debate, we are moving to the closing stage. In the meantime, the Bureau informs me that Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has just written for an intervention Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group. [[CH protests.]] I request banks less close to me in the Hemicycle, less restlessness. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We already have some time for debate and I think it is worth going back a bit. With regard to public school, we do not put ourselves in a perspective of months, not in the perspective of two or three years, but in the perspective of democratic Portugal, in which all governments have contributed, even those of whom we sometimes disagree. It was not always to move forward, sometimes to retreat, but all governments have made their contribution to making public school a fundamental reality in democratic Portugal. Otherwise, in 1973 — the last year before the Revolution — Portugal had about 40 000 students in secondary school. Today, we have about 400 000, i.e. about 10 times more. This means something, it's one of the indicators that where the children of the poor, where before a child who had a physical disability did not enter, where before a child who had a cognitive disability did not enter, where before a child who was far away from school did not enter, today comes in and is here. And that makes all the difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not put ourselves in the perspective of the months, nor in the perspective of the parliamentary guerilla. We put ourselves in the perspective of vision for the country. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u251	If there's anyone who wants to put out of this vision for the country, the problem is theirs, it's not ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u252	It's been a while! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u253	But one thing is certain: 30 years ago, half of the students who were supposed to be at school left early. Today, we have early school dropout in historic minimums and today more than half of the young people are in higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] The country did that. And as the President of the National Education Council said today in the Education Committee of this Parliament, today we have 90 000 children of foreigners in our schools. [[CH protests.]] That makes a difference. Today it is worth studying, because those who qualify have more chances than others of being employed and are less at risk of being unemployed. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u254	In terms of quality, it is true that education does not reach everyone, because there are some who spend time shouting while others talk. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To these education has not come, but it may still come, because we have recovered adult education and there is a tramp for you! [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u255	You have to go to school!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, either of you. Members of this House have the right to listen. [[CH protests.]] So let us create conditions so that we can hear all our colleagues. [[CH protests.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u257	But it is not saying that we are shouting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. As regards the quality of education, as all international evaluations say, for 25 years the Portuguese public school has been progressing regularly for the better, in terms of the skills of students, as in fact demonstrate to our young people that, when they go abroad either to study or to go to work, they are always the best. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at this point, it is clear that we have to say that this did not fall from heaven. Obviously, in this collective work, education professionals played a key role: teachers, specialized technicians, operational assistants and technical assistants. It is therefore fair for education professionals to say « we want to continue to be valued in our careers and careers ». Fair enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u259	You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u260	Therefore, in addition to the appreciation of public servants that is being made cross-sectionally for the administration as a whole — and for this reason we had a medium-term agreement with the civil service unions — it is also just a special look for teachers. We started with the two problems that, in the case of teachers, are particularly serious and specific in this career: the problems of precariousness, which have a form in the teaching career that has nowhere else, and the problems of instability, the so-called 'home to back', which have a form in the teaching career that has no other sector of Public Administration. So we started there and started in September, we didn't wait for the demonstrations, we didn't wait for the strikes to come to Parliament to try to explore the street, as others do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u261	You can't hear them either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u262	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u263	We started before that, because it was in the Government Programme that was what we needed to do and that is what we were going to do. It is clear, Mr President, that there are other problems to solve. We must, by successive agreements, go to the point and go to everything we need. But this is done by building convergences, building the agreements, it is not just hanging on us in the contest and in the strikes, which is what some do in an opportunistic way, when, in the past, they have done everything contrary to what they now say.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u264	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u265	Yes, there is much to do, but what there is to do is not going back again, it is not introducing again—though in disguise, with shame — exams at times of schooling where there are no tests in any civilized country in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u266	No country!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u267	There is no civilized country in the world that has exams in 4. the year of schooling and that is what, although shamefully, the PSD wants to do again. I also wanted to go back to another subject. We have to bet on the intelligence of the school, we have to bet on the intelligence of the professionals. We cannot continue to have solutions « Bonapartists», equal to all, automatic and universal, when what we need is flexible management. Mr Rui Tavares brought here the relevant subject of the number of students per class. It is true that it is a matter of relevance, but what matters is that it may be schools, professionals, technicians who decide where it is necessary and where it is not necessary. Therefore, the measure of the dynamic classes and the measure of the formation of pedagogical teams—which my colleague, Mrs Catarina Lobo, has already mentioned—which involved, as shown by the monitoring study of Plan 21 23 School +, a very large increase in the hours of work of teachers and technicians, are important measures. [[CH protests.]] We must go further through the intelligence of the schools themselves, the intelligence of the professionals themselves who, more than the general directors, more than the central services, know well who their students are and what their context is. That's where we have to go. We know that there's a lot to do and that's because there's a lot to do that we're here and we're still gonna be there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u268	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u269	Mr. President, we have been here a long time ago. We had already seen the troika, Cavaco and even General Ramalho Eanes in this House, but there is one thing we had never seen before: in 1973.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u270	It's to know the country you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u271	Porfirio Silva said, justifying the disaster in which the public school is today: « My friends, in 1973 things weren’t like that. In 1973 — your mends! — we had this terrible thing and now, by virtue of the PS, we have a much better country. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by PS members Eurico Brilliant Dias and Porfírio Silva.]] But, Mr Porfirio Silva, if compared from 1961 to 1973, will also see a very different number of students in public school. And let me give you something new, which you probably don't know, but I will tell you: if you compare between 1950 and 1961, you will also see very different numbers; if you compare between 1926 and 1951, they are even more different numbers; if you compare between 1800 and... [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u272	You know more about fascism than democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u273	Mr Porfirio Silva, I am challenging you because I think this House was winning with that. The PS, instead of answering questions from the opposition, could bring a calendar, made by Dr. Porfirio, with all the decades since the eighteenth century, in fact, from the Marquis de Pombal, from the earthquake to today, with all the educational responses. [[CH's laughs.]] When there were teachers without assistance and travel allowance, Dr. Porfirio brought the Marquis de Pombal. [[CH's laughs.]] [[PS protests.]] When there were teachers who did not receive properly and had to move from Guarda to the Algarve, Dr. Porfirio Silva brought the first years of monarchical constitutionalism. [[Protests by PS members Eurico Brilliant Dias and Porfírio Silva.]] When we discussed the lack of teachers, who went half, Dr. Porfirio Silva would bring back Marcelo Caetano and Salazar.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u274	They're just crazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u275	The problem of the Socialist Party is even this: the Socialist Party has no response to the disaster in which the public school is located,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u277	...there is no answer to the disaster in which you are confining the teachers and there is no other answer than to speak of Marquis de Pombal, Passos Coelho or, now, 1973. My dear ones, it is not 1973, neither the Marquis de Pombal, nor the Passos Rabbit. Today, if we have teachers with poor wages, who do not receive what they should receive when they have to move from the North to the South, if we have school to degrade, gradually,... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... if we have the Ministry of Education, little by little, to destroy itself, in a damaging management that has to be identified, it is not the Marquis de Pombal, nor the Passos Coelho, nor the Cavaco Silva, nor the General Ramalho Eanes. The guilt, no matter how hard it costs you to admit, has the name of a man who was born in the 20th century and who is called António Costa. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u278	You have in your program to end public school, and now try to hide it! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u279	Mrs. Members, the form of treatment that we use when we address each other in this House is either « Mr Deputy» or « Mr. a Member ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u280	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u281	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u282	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u283	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u284	It is only to acknowledge, Mr President, that Mr Porfirio Silva should have been treated as « Mr. Member », as he is too. I should have treated it and I did not treat it, although the honourable Member referred to the bench of arriving as 'the ones who cried' and, therefore, I am not ashamed of what he said. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u285	As soon as possible, Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we are discussing public school, we must realize what it must serve, essentially. And in this debate that we have just had, the Socialist Party cannot recognize some of the realities we are all facing. We can no longer say that public school has damaged the social elevator in Portugal. The public school blew up the social elevator in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u287	I should have been in the Education Commission to hear the President of the National Education Council!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u288	Mr Porfirio Silva, I have been very quiet to hear you and now I ask you the same respect, when another Member is speaking, because here you do not send, who sends, are the Members who are talking! [[PSD applause.]] So let me just give you this note: the public school, unfortunately, has not contributed to us having a country in which a child, when he comes from a poor environment, does not need five generations to go up in life to ensure that he does not have his destiny set at the start. This is the reality, this is the real country, it is not the country that we have heard recently speak Mr Porfirio Silva. And let's talk about this. In recent years, the Socialist Party has sought to break down with all the instruments that we have to evaluate in the teaching system. We know the theses, the academic inspirations, even we know what they tried to do after the pandemic, trying to end the national exams in high school. It is curious that in this debate the Socialist Party has not had the honesty to tell the country whether the failed attempt of January 2023 will return. This is because in January 2023, you tried, or rather, the Minister of Education, Prof. João Costa, primarily responsible for trying to end the only element of external evaluation, which is the national secondary school exams, which exists in Portugal, tried to kill this element of evaluation. And you know what happened? You have to be the President of the Republic to put an end to the strike and to tell the Minister of Education that the vision of the Minister of Higher Education is that it overlaps! [[PSD applause.]] So what we were hoping for in this debate was that the Socialist Party had honesty, had the frontalness to say to the country: "Yes, we want to end the examinations". The Minister of Education himself has already admitted it. Thus, we would be in a situation where, more than what they did in basic education, what the country would have today was a reality in which it would be possible for a student to finish his secondary education without making any kind of external evaluation. Worse, the argument used was: "Well, but they don't go to higher education either! It's almost an argument of "who is cod enough"! That is, since they don't go to higher education, they don't need to have a national exam either. This doesn't make any sense! And I am glad that in the government — sometimes strangely enough — there is a researcher, a scientist, who took care of this attempt by the Minister of Education to kill the national exams in high school.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u289	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u290	But what the country needs to know is whether this will be just a single attempt or whether the Socialist Party, at the first opportunity, will again want to kill the national exams in high school. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame what you have tried to do. What was important for the Socialist Party to say in this debate is whether it is on the side of João Costa or is on the side of Elvira Fortunato. [[PS protests.]] If you are on the side of an advanced teaching system, whether you want to have results and evaluation measures or if you prefer to turn the teaching system into a complete banderie, which does not matter if people know or do not know, in which the system does not have any external evaluation! What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, it is to ensure, without surprise, that, rather than what came to be the results of the last two decades, what happened, for the first time, in the PISA and TIMSS, in which Portugal fell. This happened for some reason, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, may be poorly educated the times you understand, but the truths are to be heard. So what I have to tell you is that the PS, in this debate, is afraid to talk about the exams because it has no courage to admit that he wanted to kill the national exams in high school and was defeated by the Minister of Higher Education and the President of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u291	Too bad I didn't say that while I had time to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u292	To close the debate, Mrs Sonia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 1979, Hans Jonas published his fundamental work, The Principle of Responsibility, as a key concept of contemporary ethics. The human being is defined by the responsibility it assumes for future generations. Responsibility : this is the word that is imposed on a government which, for seven years, has ignored teachers, their demands, the needs of the entire educational community and, above all, the students—in short, the future of Portugal. The country demands responsibility for an absolute majority government which, after two years of pandemic, in which the learnings were clearly compromised, did not have the ability to avoid months of challenge and instability due to pure stubbornness and arrogance. The country demands responsibility for an absolute majority government that has not yet managed to solve the lack of teachers, value career or recover service time; did not extend the recovery plan of learning; did not update the values of school social action; did not schedule the promised requalification of 451 schools; and also, we understand today, did not read the PSD proposals. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] instead, he removed the external evaluation to not recognize his own incompetence, discredited the public school, bureaucratized the teachers' daily to exhaustion and became the best friend of the private in health and education. She's freaking out! Still, he achieved the unprecedented fact that he was the only country in the world in which, during the pandemic, students learned more at home than at school. This is the social elevator that socialism defends, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD applause.]] The projections for lack of teachers are dramatic and tell us that within a year we will have 110,000 students without teachers. the government requires the promotion of the social elevator to allow each one to have the opportunity of a dignified life through education. It is this opportunity that Antonio Costa withdraws us every day that he does not get an understanding with the teachers. That is why the PSD is presenting today a set of legislative proposals in defense of teachers and public school, subjecting itself to the government's obligation and responsibility. We still maintain the expectation of your approval for the benefit of Portugal. The human being is defined by the responsibility it assumes for future generations. António Costa has today the responsibility to watch over future generations rather than to compromise irremediably. That's what you're doing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u294	We are thus at the end of our debate. The voting period is followed. I request the services which activate the quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I request the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any or some honourable Member has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u295	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u296	Thank you, Mr President, for your presence. I would therefore ask the services to close the quorum verification system and to advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the general vote on draft resolution No 434 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of urgent measures in the education sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]] We will now vote, in general, the Bill No. 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Changes in external assessment of learning: introduction of measurement tests in 4. it's 6. years. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the CH.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u297	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written vote statement on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Member. Mr. Pedro Pinto is asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u299	Yes, Mr President, we shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u300	Thank you, sir. We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 454 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Desburocratize : return teachers to teaching. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro Pinto and IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 455 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — For a greater scope of the number of students receiving school social action and for the unburocratization in their allocation. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 456 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the effectiveness, duration and financing of learning recovery measures developed autonomously by public schools. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] [[CH and IL protests.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 575 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Accomplishment of measurement tests in the final years of each basic education cycle. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the CH.]] Is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real requesting the floor to announce that she will present a written statement of vote on the last vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u301	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u302	To be logical, Mr Pedro Pinto too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u303	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u304	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 576 / XV / 1. a (L) — lays down rules for the establishment of groups and classes of pre-school, education and training establishments and for the period of operation of pre-school and teaching establishments. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] Is Mr Pedro Pinto asking for the floor to say that he is going to make a statement of vote on the last vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u305	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u306	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 492 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Compliance with the school building intervention programme. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No 493 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government grant private and cooperative education greater autonomy for the hiring of teachers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 494 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Review of decision on the digitisation of final cycle evidence No 9. the year of education. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CH and IL and with abstentions from the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 495 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By strengthening, monitoring and extension of Plan 21 23 Schools + and diagnosis of learning losses. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The project goes down to 8.The Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 498 / XV / 1. a (L) — For fair compensation to teachers placed in schools away from their residence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] Mrs. Sonia Ramos is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u307	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD will make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u308	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. After the vote, I would like to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u309	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 577 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 578 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 580 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 581, 582 and 583 / XV / 1. a ( L ), down to 1. the Commission, 584 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 585 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 586 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 587 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 589 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 590 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted by Mr. President, the Resolution Projects Nos. 485 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 490 and 491 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), down to 13. the Commission, 496 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 499 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u310	We are thus at the end of our work. Mr. Paulo Pisco is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u311	Mr President, I am sorry, but as a result of my parliamentary activity, I was unable to record my presence on time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-02-22.u312	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The next plenary session is tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m., with four agenda items. of the first point is the discussion of the Proposal for Law No 44 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthens mechanisms for combating sport violence, along with Law Projects Nos 539 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July establishing the legal regime for security and combating racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows, and 545 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 June eliminating areas with special conditions for access and stay of followers. of the second point is the discussion of Bill 484 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the maximum age of the adopter ( amendment to Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September and Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November ), 507 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Review of the reception measures and programme for the empowerment of children and young people in danger ( fifth amendment to Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September approving the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger), 508 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the possibility of adoption of children up to 18 years ( first amendment to Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September and Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November ), 529 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Civil Code, Legal Scheme of the Adoption Process and the Labour Code, in order to reduce the number of institutionalized children guaranteeing them a process of rapid and successful adoption, 534 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the maximum age of the adopted to the age of 18, amending the Civil Code and the Legal Regime of the Adoption Process, 537 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Clarify the possibility of united couples can adopt, decrease the minimum age of adopters, increase the maximum age of adopters, decrease the consent age of adopters, remove the consent and hearing dispensation of neurodivergent people or with mental illness and introduce the possibilities of integration of professionals in the area of gender equality in the adoption technical teams, and 541 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amends the adoption process by extending the maximum age of the adopter to the age of 18 ( amends Decree-Law No 47344 / 66 of 25 November and Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September and Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September ), together with Draft Resolution No 440 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of integrated and speedy policies for the promotion of adoption. of the third point is the discussion of the draft resolution No 403 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the approved State budget and apply an effective 50 % discount on the porting rates of the interior territories together with the Drafts of Law No 542/XV/1. a ( CH) — Provides for the implementation of a gradual plan to exempt the payment of tolls, 548 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A25, 549 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removes the tolls on the former North Coastal SCUT ( A28 ) between Angeras and Darque, 550 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A29, 551 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A41, 552 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A42, 553 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A4, 554 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A13, 555 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls on A22, 556 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Delete tolls in A23 and 557 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remove the tolls on A24. of the fourth and last point is the discussion of Bill Nos 65 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Gives the nature of the executive title to the decisions condemning the ACT and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by proceeding with 3. the amendment to Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September and 543 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Gives executive strength to the sentencing decisions of the Labour Authority for suspension of dismissal and abusive sanctions and deepens the legal regime to combat harassment at work. Immediately after the end of this session there will be the possession of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into TAP Management Policy Protection, so I request the Members. Members of this Commission who travel to their own room. Thank you very much and very good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
