ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha for reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 984 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 985 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 986 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 987 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 990 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 991 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) and 992 / XV / 2. a ( PAN ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 993 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) ; and Resolution Projects Nos 965 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 966 / XV / 2. a ( PAN). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u3	Thank you very much. Let us then move on to our agenda, the first of which comes from the establishment required by the Free, on the theme « Solution of two States and the recognition of the independence of Palestine », under which the Resolution Projects Nos. 943 / XV / 2 will be discussed in general. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government progress towards the recognition of the independence of Palestine ; 944 / XV / 2. a (L) — Against the escalation of war in Israel and Palestine : urgent recommendations to the Government in the defence of cease-fire, humanitarian aid and the release of hostages; 946 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to promote integration into national educational institutions of students, researchers and teachers from higher education institutions in Israel, Gaza Strip and the West Bank ; 950 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine ; 957 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government start all diplomatic efforts to defend the establishment of the State of Palestine, alongside the existence of the State of Israel, side by side, to live in peace and security as provided for in the United Nations Sharing Plan of 1947 ; 961 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine ; 964 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Boycott and sanctions to Israel by the end of the genocide in Gaza ; and 966 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — At the immediate end of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and for lasting peace, with the implementation of the solution of the two States in accordance with the United Nations Sharing Plan of 1947. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiatives of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u4	Isn't anybody from the government coming?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u5	So much to argue in Portugal and you'll spend time with this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u6	I ask for silence so that we can listen to the speaker. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u7	Mr. President, Faces and Dear Colleagues, Faces and Dear Citizens in the galleries, wrote the Palestinian poet Refaat Alareer :"If I have to die/ you will have to live you/ to tell my story/ to sell my things/ to buy a piece of fabric/ and a few threads / do it white with a great tail/ for a child somewhere in Gaza/ to look at the sky, eyes in your eyes/ waiting for your father who left in an explosion/ without saying good-bye/ to his own flesh, nor even to himself/see the parrot, my parrot that you made / flying up there/ and think, for a moment, that is an angel bringing love/ If I have to die/ that this brings hope/ that it will be a story. Do not keep on seeking. ” Refaat Alareer died in a bombing in Gaza last December 6, 2023. I begin with his words because he thus asked all readers of his poem: if he had to die, that this would bring hope, that it would be a story, that each of us could bring hope to the eyes of a child in Gaza. I did not begin with the words of Refaat Alareer for agreeing with him in everything — Refaat Alareer considered the Hamas attacks of the last October 7, justified and I here, on the first occasion, on this rostrum, said that they were completely unjustified —, I began with the words of a poet from Gaza because in something we have to agree and what we have to agree on is that the words still save us and by words we understand ourselves. It could have begun with the story of Prof. Alex Danzig, a historian who, having been born in Poland and being a survivor of the Holocaust, dedicated his life to speaking of Poland in Israel, speaking of Israel in Poland and bringing friendship among the generations of those who had been chacinated and slaughtered. Prof. Danzig was kidnapped on October 7 and is still hostage in Gaza. The latest news we had is that Prof. Danzig was teaching history lessons to his fellow hostages and anyone who wanted to hear it, as they did, throughout history, so many historians when they were hostages, when they were in the ghettos, when they were in the concentration camps, making this gift of the word a way to create the future by recalling the past. The poem of Refaat Alareer tells us of a child in Gaza, but it could also have begun with the history of Almog. Almog is the two-year-old son of Or Levy. Or Levy is an Israeli hostage who has been imprisoned for 74 days, whose wife, the mother of little Almog, was murdered on October 7. And so little Almog hasn't seen his father in 74 days. Your uncle Michael, whom I met yesterday, doesn't even know how to tell his nephew he'll see his father again. We could start with many stories and we have to start with people's stories, because no one can be sure that everything will be right in a debate about Israel and Palestine. But perhaps there is a way to fool ourselves less, which is to start with the victims, be the victims of Hamas' heinous attacks on 7 October, be the victims of disproportionate, brute, unwarranted bombings at the Gaza Strip. After talking about the victims, we must speak of the perpetrators and, regardless of our position, know how to name the perpetrators and not be afraid to do it; know how to designate Hamas as a terrorist entity, which oppresses the Palestinian people and has an anti-Semitic death cult, which only wants a State of the Jordan to the sea; know how to appoint the army of Israel and the Government of Israel of Netanyahu, who violate international law by promoting this siege to Gaza and this bombing, and where there are elements that only want a State of the Jordan to the sea. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] By naming the victims, by naming the perpetrators, we must say what we heard, as what I heard in a refugee camp in Syria. There were Palestinian children in Iraq who, to survive, had to lie about their own identity, saying they were Shiites when they were Sunni. They told the Members present their history and, at the end, we were all practically washed up in tears, as we would also be hearing the stories of the families of the hostages and the murderers of 7 October. After listening to these stories and listening to political leaders — we meet to prepare this debate with the diplomatic representative of Palestine and the diplomatic representative of Israel — we know that what we all agree on is that a commitment is needed and that this commitment has to do with the territory, with the recognition of a State, with the recognition of the capital of one State and another State, because there is no solution from two States without recognizing both. That's actually the easiest thing to do. The most difficult will be these two societies to recover and reconcile in the next generations. When we look at the photographs of Israelis and Palestinians, we see that they are, after all, so similar, and so similar to Lebanese, and so similar to Cypriots and, indeed, so similar to Portuguese, of the same Mediterranean peoples who have lived in this region for thousands of years. A child, when born, does not choose to be born on either side of the border. We must start with these stories, because these stories tell us that in a debate where there will naturally be room for disagreement, we must agree with something. And in these fundamental things we must agree or lose our humanity. But there are other things that we agree with in this House of the Republic. This Assembly of the Republic, not in this legislature, but before, has already voted for a recommendation in 2014 even with a right-wing majority for the recognition of the independence of Palestine. Portugal already recognises, in its foreign policy, that the two-State solution is the possible solution. It's not the ideal, it won't be the fairest, it won't be the perfect, it's the one where fewer people die, it's the one where more lives we save. Portugal is in favour of this two-State solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u8	Is it? I don't know if it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u9	Portugal also recognises that the settlers are illegal, that the occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip are illegal, that the State of Palestine, while it is recognized as an independent State, must have a territory and have conditions of viability. And now, if Portugal already has this position, the time has come to take on more force and more urgency. If there is anything we see in the disproportionateness of this war, there are those who are interested, with this war, in preventing the solution of the two States. If Portugal defends the solution of the two States, no longer waiting to be the last to move forward and, together with other countries such as Spain and Belgium, dynamize and even lead, within the European Union, the recognition of Palestinian independence, takes two very important messages. I would like to say that the world and countries in the European Union and Western Europe are in favour of this commitment now and that they find it more urgent than ever. To anyone who wants only a State to come or ethnic cleansing, genocide, apartheid, or constant discrimination, or religious fanaticism, I would like to say that they will not succeed in their attempts to change the facts on the ground, creating a de facto finished policy and making the self-determination of Palestine impossible. A country such as Portugal, which fought for the self-determination of East Timor, which defends the self-determination of Western Sahara, which defends the self-determination and territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, cannot fail to defend the self-determination of Palestine and recognize the State of Palestine as an independent State. A country like Portugal can't stop doing as much as it can to save lives. There have already been Palestinian Luso-Killed during this war, there have already been Israeli Luso-Killed in the terrorist attack, but there are still people we can save. There are, at present, Luso-Israeli who are hostages. If I met Michael Levy yesterday it is because his brother has pending the application process of Portuguese nationality, and there are at least four or five other Israelites who have conditions, according to current law, to be Portuguese. And we know that dual nationality has, in spite of everything, been a help for these people to be released. The country that wanted to put Aristides Sousa Mendes in the Pantheon cannot leave, as soon as possible, to give Portuguese nationality, if people have that right and so can be saved. The Free Paper set this agenda because it did not seem acceptable to you that this House, having already discussed other wars, discussed twice in this Parliament, the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation of Putin, was dissolved without ever having had a debate in plenary, with all the solemnity possible, on the recognition of Palestine as an independent State and on an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, as requested by Secretary-General Guterres. It would not be acceptable for this House to be dissolved without taking a position, discussing or voting on the most important event of the international present. We would like other parties to bring their own initiatives to this debate. We could have said, in fact, that this debate would be completely monopolized by the Free Initiatives, but that is not what we wanted. We welcome all the projects that come to the debate and we think it is important to have this debate, because no party, no country, no person individually can be sure that they are all right in this conflict. But all the stories together will make a way for peace and something Europe can say: 80 years ago, we in Europe would do the same as we do today and European societies have sometimes made it worse, sometimes better. Maybe that's a lesson we can still teach the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u10	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, members of the public here present, social communication and other officials: I begin by thanking the Free for bringing us this issue, which talks to us, above all, about humanity. At the end of today's debate, we must bear in mind in our minds that at least 15 children have died in the Gaza Strip in the hands of Israel's disproportionate reaction to Hamas' criminal attacks. And we speak of Israel and Hamas because we cannot confuse the people of Palestine with Hamas nor, less so, the Israelite people with Netanyahu. Over three months and in the face of all this barbarity, we cannot fail to mention that one third of Gaza hospitals are closed. On average, there is a shower for every 700 people; the cuts of light, water and internet are constant; and the images of children to see their families, their own brothers, die in front of their eyes cannot leave any or any of us indifferent. The NAP does not deny Israel's right to defend itself, but we have always said that this right must be exercised proportionately, it cannot be a blank letter for genocide and it must also respect the limits of international humanitarian law, which has not happened. Destroying schools and hospitals, bombing refugee camps and making Gaza what António Guterres called "a cemetery of children" is cruel, perverse and must be punished. One cannot answer the barbaria with another chapter of what José Saramago called « a monument to the people's indignity». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is for this reason that we present the debate defending solidarity with all those who suffer, without frontiers; the accountability of the authors of this barbarity; the immediate ceasefire; the search for lasting peace between Israel and Palestine; but also the recognition of the independence of Palestine. Solidarity, because we want our country to honor its humanist past and be open to all those who suffer in the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and Israel. Since the universities are currently closed, Portugal can and should also play a role in awarding grants to these territories. Responsibility for barbarity, because we do not accept that violations of international law and human rights are unpunished and so we want the Government to demonstrate its full support for the investigation initiated by the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court on all of these crimes that are taking place, as well as that the Independent United Nations Investigation Commission (United Nations) can also carry out research with the Gaza Strip for evidence. We want to cease the fire on all sides involved, with the release of the hostages on both sides and the creation of quick and direct safe access to the Gaza Strip to help innocent victims. And we also want to talk about peace, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The planet and the world need peace, but the Gaza Strip, more than ever, needs this peace to be established. We therefore want Portugal, in line with what has been its diplomatic policy, to reaffirm this need and demonstrate that it is on the right side of history, with the relevant resolution of initiatives such as those of the United Nations General Assembly, the United Nations Security Council, and in agreements previously signed between Israelis and Palestinians in full compliance. The world needs peace, we need humanity and, above all, we need that human rights do not finally have borders.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u12	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « This Christmas there is no feast in Jerusalem or Bethlehem »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u14	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u15	... wrote Alexandra Lucas Coelho in the Public. The patriarchate of Catholics is in shock with the Israeli attack to a church in Gaza. An Israelite sniper killed two women in the parish of the Holy Family, where 600 Christians took refuge, and a tank reached a building that housed disabled people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u16	Now there are persecutions against Christians!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u17	The events of October 7 shocked the world and, since then, there has been no day of rest for horror. Almost 20,000 Palestinians were killed by Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip, 70% of which women and children. Most of the 2 million people in the territory are displaced, and half the population is estimated to be starving. There's no water, no energy. Hospital units went into bankruptcy. Thirty of his professionals were killed, as well as dozens of journalists and international humanitarian officials. There are no maternal or neonatal care, and among those who have not yet died there are thousands of injured without access to treatment, children to be operated without anesthesia and a deep despair. « Gaza became a cemetery for children», said the spokesperson for Unicef. « Gaza is hell on Earth », said the director of the United Nations Agency for Palestine. All the horrors we can name are happening in Gaza.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u18	It's terrorism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u19	in this huge open-air prison called Gaza, there are more than 2 million people to be eliminated by all means.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u20	And in Iran, women? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u21	And there's a word for this: genocide. The question is whether we want to be part of a sitting world, a world that watches or, at most, regrets a live genocide or whether we want to be a world that rises up to silence the weapons, to make peace and bring justice. So far, and shamefully, the position of those who attend has prevailed. Honorable exceptions should be recognized, such as that of Antonio Guterres, who has been tireless in calling for a ceasefire and reporting war crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u23	On 8 December, following an unpublished request by the UN Secretary-General, the United States vetoed the adoption of a Security Council resolution for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in the Gaza Strip. The UN General Assembly adopted the same resolution by an express majority, but without binding power. Today, the subject will return to the Security Council. Portugal and the European Union cannot continue to look the other way. Let me quote an open letter, signed by several European politicians, saying: "Our continent knows too well how fragile the fine veil of humanity is. History will severely judge the leaders of the European Union for their “unconditional” support to Israel’s far-right government carnage. Do not keep on seeking. ” at present, there are more than 2 million people sentenced to death by international passivity. To do what is within our power to prevent the indiscriminate massacre of men, women and children is an imperative of those who do not abandon positions for peace and good. Portugal cannot sit, just watch it; it cannot stand on the side of the carnage. But what to do? We propose two last gestures of humanity. First, you have to do everything for a cease-fire. In the face of the Israeli Government's project of total destruction of Gaza, of the extermination of those living there, it is necessary for the international community to force Israel to stop violence, both in the Gaza Strip and in the occupied Palestinian territories. How?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u24	And condemn terrorists? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u25	Through the unequivocal condemnation of Israel's actions against Palestine, in addition to defending international and humanitarian law, in addition to bringing Israeli political and military leaders to the International Criminal Court, as well as all war crimes, they have been committed by the Israeli army or Hamas. It is necessary to move forward towards the application of sanctions and boycotts to Israel so that aggression will stop immediately. We defend and propose sanctions for Israel while continuing a policy of collective punishment, colonialist expansion and ethnic cleansing. The Portuguese State must refuse any military or logistical collaboration in operations involving the Israeli defence forces. Israeli companies linked to the arms industry which finance the activities of the Government and the army, or which are complicit in the occupation of Palestinian territories, must be targeted by a national and international boycott. We are clear: Israel must be subject to political and economic sanctions as long as the massacre lasts. France has already undertaken to apply sanctions to Israeli settlers for acts of extreme violence against Palestinians in the West Bank. Other European countries, and even the United States of America, are discussing similar measures. In view of the fact that, on the far-right side of the Government, there is no intention to stop the aggression, both in Gaza and in the West Bank, sanctions and the international boycott must move forward. We demand no less than the international pressure that has put an end to the apartheid regime in South Africa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u26	"We demand"? Oh, my God! You're five! Like a futsal team!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u27	But stopping the genocide is just the first step. Peace must be built. It is 139 countries represented in the UN General Assembly that already recognize the State of Palestine, and Portugal is not one of them. Portugal remains afraid to support a hypocritical position of those who claim to defend the solution of the two States, but then only one recognizes the State of Israel. A subordinate, dependent position, which will eventually be overcome, if not even hit by reality. The policy of hypocrisy, fear and subservience is a computational way of compacting with what is happening in Gaza. It is necessary to recognize Palestine and to defend its recognition in all international bodies. That is what the Assembly of the Republic has already voted on by a majority, and which today must again approve and demand that the Government do. Recognizing the State of Palestine and applying sanctions to stop a genocide are gestures of the last humanity that the Block of the Left here proposes. Because free Palestine and the end of the Israeli colonial project, yes, is the way to peace. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u28	Mariana's not even here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u29	To present the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conflict in the Middle East concerns us and occupies the political and media agenda around the world. Not because it is unusual, but because of the dimension of horror, suffering and death. This is no longer just a conflict between Israel and Palestine, adding to the many that have occurred over the decades. They were so many and started so long that probably no one in this room was born when it all started. The Council of Europe, the oldest European institution and the main organization of human rights had not even been set up yet, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was already of concern to the world. How is that possible? It is the question that permeates the mind of many of us. It is reality, unthinkable and painful. Herodotus said that it was necessary to think about the past in order to understand the present and idealize the future. Knowledge of history should prevent past mistakes from repeated in the present and in the future. We know it's not like that. Humanity has not always been able to learn from history and to draw lessons and illusions, but that is not why we should give up taking lessons from the past in order to better safeguard the future. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is one of the longest and most complex of contemporary history, going through decades of tensions and confrontations, whose genesis plunges into history, religion and geopolitics in the Middle East. Religion has, in fact, played a central role in the creation and maintenance of this conflict, adding obstacles to the already complex and difficult of itself, the path of peace. At the beginning of 1947, Britain, which administered Palestine after World War I, recognized the impossibility of resolving the growing conflict between Arabs and Jews and defended the creation of two states, an Arab and a Jew. This proposal for the sharing of Palestine was approved by the United Nations General Assembly, through Resolution 181, in November 1947, assigning some 56 % of the territory to the Jews and 44 % to the Arabs. Since the end of the British mandate and the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, the region has been the stage of intermittent conflicts, frustrated peace efforts, various changes, displacement of populations, cycles of renewed violence. The 1990s brought hope with the Oslo agreements, which aimed to establish a Palestinian State in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. The beginning of the 21st century witnessed more conflicts and the situation became even more complex with the emergence of Islamic extremist groups such as Hamas, Hezbollah and the Islamic State, on the one hand, and the rise to power in Israel from a dominant right that does not believe in the solution of two states and that everything has done to boycott it. That is how, despite decades of international efforts and negotiations, peace in the region seems to be increasingly distant. The Oslo agreements, I have already stated, represented an important step, but the intransigence of radical sectors on both sides has made it difficult to build a lasting solution. Loss of land, illegal settlements with more than 700 000 settlers—against all United Nations resolutions, say — control of water and energy sources, restrictions on movement, economic difficulties, shortage of essential goods, such as food and medicines, and the constant Israeli military presence makes the Palestinian living conditions more precarious and unacceptable. The Gaza Strip and the West Bank have become what many call open-air prisons, which represents a gross violation of human rights. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the peace agreements negotiated and signed were systematically ignored and forgotten by the actors in the processes and by the international community. So we arrived at the tragic October 7th, which should never have happened. The terrorist attack by Hamas must be condemned without reservation, like all terrorist acts. Israel had and has the right to defend itself. No one challenges Israel's right to defend its population and territory; no one challenges Israel's right to live in peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u31	But that's what's happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u32	But now it's not about that anymore. What we're watching is a lot more than that. As many as have been the atrocities committed by Hamas, and they were, these are no longer solved with more atrocities. Violence is condemnable, come from which side to come. War is no solution for anything. As Pope Francis said, “war shuts out the future”. The atrocities committed by Hamas, an extreme violence against defenseless civilians, indiscriminately killing more than one thousand Israelites, many women and children, making 240 hostages, including foreigners, sowing evil in a total disregard for human rights, were engraved on stone as one of the darkest moments of humanity. But Israel's response, legitimate if it respected international law, became a reaction of revenge, an indiscriminate slaughter that the murder of the three Israeli hostages is paradigmatic. Defenceless men, naked trunks and waving with white clothes to signal their condition as civilians asking for peace were shot down as if they were being treated by an armed group. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, has not spared any effort to get humanitarian aid to whom it needs and has done everything to appeal to moderation, calling for the release of all Hamas hostages and recalling that even wars have rules. His calls for the development of a diplomatic solution have also been a constant one. On International Human Rights Day, on 10 December, Antonio Guterres regretted that the UN Security Council did not vote in favour of a ceasefire in Gaza and did not spare the words. Cito :« The situation is rapidly evolving into a catastrophe, with potentially irreversible implications for Palestinians as a whole and for peace and security in the region. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree: war is no solution for anything, it is never. We all agree that it is necessary to avoid the useless suffering of human beings on both sides, people who have faces and names, who have the right to live in security and freedom. We all agree that it is urgent to put an end to the barbershop. We all agree that the path of peace must be made quickly. We all agree that peace, more than ever, presupposes the existence of two States: the State of Israel and the State of Palestine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u34	Today there is a very deep and shared conviction that the only solution is this: to recognize the State of Palestine. But we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. The past tells us that symbolic gestures, even romantic gestures, of isolated recognition did not serve anything. The recognition isolated by Portugal would be inconsequential. To have an impact, we have to evolve into a joint recognition. I know that Portugal and several European countries are working on a road map for the joint recognition of the State of Palestine. The PS draft resolution therefore recommends that the Government start all diplomatic efforts to defend the establishment of the State of Palestine, alongside the existence of the State of Israel, side by side, to live in peace and security, as provided for in the United Nations sharing plan of 1947. This is the way we advocate, so that, as on May 14, 1948, in which it was possible to proclaim the creation of the State of Israel and David Ben-Gurion said, and I quote, that "this is the natural right of the Jewish people—to be like any other nation", the same can be said soon about Palestine : "This is the natural right of the Palestinian people—to be like any other nation. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u35	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u36	Mr President, Mrs Edite Estrela, we agree on the substance of the matter. There are two nationalities in that territory, two national identities having the same right to self-determination. This is a classic position of the Portuguese State, but if the Portuguese State is in favour of the two-State solution, it cannot continue to recognize only one of them. I also understand what it says about the pragmatism of the exercise of this recognition. The recognition of a State is done once. It is a letter that is played once and that does not stop playing after it has been played. Portugal must therefore wish, in the interests of peace, security and respect for the right to self-determination, that its exercise be done at a time when it can help more. The question I ask you is whether there is another time when it can help more than this, since, if Portugal does delay, it happens that there may no longer be a State of Palestine to recognize, because we know very well that there are plans simply to clean up ethnically in Gaza and send the Palestinians to the Sinai desert, and because we know that the West Bank is increasingly far away from being able to form an independent, autonomous and sustainable entity with all the settlements that divide its territory. If the Portuguese State, waiting for unanimity, lets itself be held by the position of the one who is slower, of course it will exercise its right of recognition of Palestine as a late State. What the Free proposes is that the Portuguese State give concrete signs, steps to advance the recognition of Palestine as an independent State. The Portuguese State does not have to wait for the last state of the European Union to do so. It can lead together with other States that have this availability. The Portuguese State may set up a working group to see the legal implications of de facto recognizing the Palestinian Authority as an internationally recognized authority of the Palestinian State, excluding Hamas from any type of recognition and thus recognizing only the sovereignty over the Gaza Strip. This must be studied by who is under international law. The Portuguese State can also mark this debate in the Council of Europe and in the Council of the European Union. I ask you if you think it is time for the Portuguese State to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u37	In reply, Mrs Edite Estrela of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u38	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, thank you very much for your question. I think you have listened carefully to what I just said, especially the final part of my speech, in which I said that Portugal is not expecting to be the last to recognize the state of Palestine, is not expecting unanimity and is not even waiting for a decision from the European Union. of what I know is, together with a group of other European countries, working on a road map for the recognition of the State of Palestine. That is, Mr President, the difference, let us say, between our positions is not substantive and it is not even adjective, it is adverbial: it has to do with time and mode. It's not anymore and it's not alone. What we are defending is that it is together, that it is to have an impact, as indeed the honourable Member himself has acknowledged. Therefore, we believe that concerted action is the best way to achieve the goal of the creation of the State of Palestine, and Portugal is having a leading role in this joint work, with the European institutions and I assume that not only. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u39	To present the Resolution Project No 961 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine, now has the floor of Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin with the theme of the agenda of this plenary session, the subject of the recognition of the State of Palestine by the Portuguese Government. Let us start with this issue which today calls us to find out what evidence is: that this debate, about the decision or not to recognize the State of Palestine, is a debate which we should not be doing for a long time now. It is absurd, it is a shame that in a country where two States are supposed to be called upon and supported by a solution in compliance with the United Nations resolutions in that same country, Portugal, the Government does not recognize one of these two States and recognise only the occupying State, in response to the resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal. For more than 12 years, the Assembly of the Republic has spoken on this matter. The CFP actively contributed to this process, with the Resolution Project No 72 / XII / 1. a — Recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine on 14 September 2011 and in the debate that this initiative then sparked in this House. The Palestinian people have been waiting for decades for the realization of their legitimate and inalienable right to a sovereign, independent and viable state. Since 1947, with Resolution 181, the United Nations General Assembly has established the principle of the existence of two States, that of Palestine and that of Israel, a principle reaffirmed by organs of the United Nations, over the more than seven decades since then, and that Israel refuses to comply. The Palestinian question was the subject of decisions by the International Court of Justice — which is the example of the ruling in 2004 on the illegal wall built by Israel — decisions which Israel refuses to comply with. Despite the clear determination of the establishment of the State of Palestine, in the light of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the multiple resolutions adopted within its framework, this determination has continued to be fulfilled for more than 70 years. In order not to ignore the numerous military actions and its many thousands of victims; the systematic and methodical construction of settlements that have doubled more than since the Oslo agreements, which have not been carried out by Israel; the effective occupation of Palestinian territory; the limitation of access to natural resources and economic activities; the destruction of infrastructure and equipment; the restriction of the mobility of the Palestinian population; the blockade of the Gaza Strip; the construction of the illegal wall, among many other systematic actions — all for Israel to prevent and, in fact, prevent the existence of a sovereign, independent, viable State of Palestine, being responsible for the dramatic conditions of survival to which over the years have been and continue to be subjected to the populations of Palestine. But a just solution to the conflict is inevitably due to the recognition and creation of the State of Palestine and the realization of the right to return Palestinian refugees, as determined by the relevant UN resolutions, as well as the dismantling of the settlements, the end of the blockades, in particular the Gaza Strip, and the release of detainees, political prisoners and Palestinian children held in Israeli prisons. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u41	What about Cuba? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u42	It's 138 countries. I repeat: 138 countries have already recognized the State of Palestine, i.e. more than 70% of the UN Member States, the vast majority of mankind. of these countries that have recognized the State of Palestine, 10 are countries that are members of the European Union. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk to us in isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u45	The Constitution of the Republic lays down in Article 7. the, which, in international relations, the Portuguese State is oriented, among others, by the principles of respect for the rights of peoples, in particular to self-determination, independence and development. The recognition of the State of Palestine, as advocated in the United Nations resolutions, is a sovereign decision of the exclusive competence of the States and in particular the Portuguese State. This recognition — which, moreover, highlights the importance and need for respect for the principles of the UN Charter, as well as the political solution to the conflict that international law has long established — is all the more relevant when there is a brutal escalation in the conflict, when the massacre that is taking place today and when those responsible for the State of Israel openly declare the objective of the violent expulsion of the Palestinian population from the Gaza Strip and other occupied Palestinian territories. The central problem of this tragedy is not in conjuncural, cultural, religious factors. The problem is colonialism. The problem is in the occupation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u46	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u47	This tragedy has lasted for 75 years and will only end, there will only be peace, when there is a political solution, with the end of the occupation by Israel, with the end of the violation of international law. This massacre must be brought to an end, with these war crimes, with this impunity, and Portugal must end this humiliating follow-up and subservience of the government. In fact, we do not fail to note that, in relation to the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party to this debate, the formulation of its draft resolution, which is intended to be ambiguous—I quote: « [...] and to defend the existence of two viable and sustainable States, on the basis of a fair and mutually accepted division of territory[...]» — is outside the framework for the fulfilment of the UN resolutions that determine the creation of the State of Palestine, with the 1967 borders and capital in East Jerusalem. That is, it opens up the possibility of even greater concessions and withdrawals in the process. That is why, having already been taken and approved of the Vote Project No 497 / XV / 2. the CFP, welcoming the adoption by the UN General Assembly of a resolution advocating an immediate, lasting and sustained humanitarian truce, we draw attention to the need to recognize the State of Palestine, to take this position within the UN and other international bodies in which Portugal participates and to conduct the country's action in international relations with a view to the effective realization of a sovereign, independent, viable State of Palestine, as determined by the resolutions of the United Nations. This is the proposal of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u48	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u49	Mr President of a few seats in this Parliament, Mr. Members who have marked this debate here, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government absent from this debate, but who will certainly be in very important activities in a government in management: The country, today, should be discussing the crisis in housing and health, should be discussing employment, which does not exist, should be discussing the future of these young people who are here, in the galleries, and who do not find the future for their country. It should discuss today the profound crisis in which this country lives. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, today we should be discussing the country we do not have, the country they promised us, and which they failed to do. Today, we should be discussing pensioners who no longer have any money to buy drugs, but no. We are discussing whether or not Portugal should recognize the sovereign state of Palestine. Let's begin as Mr. Rui Tavares began : the murdered poet in Palestine. It could also be the story of the woman raped by the Gaza kidnappers, or of those who were raped and killed, or of the babies burned after the Hamas attack on Israel. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u50	It is no less curious to see this new culture of left-wing speaking of persecuted Christians, when for years it has supported regimes such as Iran, Palestine and others who persecute all Christians who can find. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is no less curious to see a woman defend the Palestinian regime when women have no rights, neither in the Gaza Strip nor in Palestine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u52	It is no longer curious to see the left defend the Gaza Strip and its Hamas, which, still in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 condemned to homosexual death for the sole reason of being homosexual. I repeat : for the only reason to be homosexual! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Perhaps a cloth of shame could be there above those who have always been filling their mouths to defend the poorest, to defend women, to defend minorities, and today it is here to defend the people who do everything they want and everything that they should not do to these minorities. Shame on this left, which shames us here in Portugal and out of doors. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe the country should know this. In the UN Security Council, there are two States that recognize the sovereignty of Palestine and its rights. They are China and Russia. Underlining, they are China and Russia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u53	Hey! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u54	I don't know what companions you want us to have, I don't know which companies you like to see us walk in the international scene, but it certainly isn't next to the Russian President, neither next to the Chinese President, nor next to all the worst dictatorships the world has produced. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u55	It is also curious to see the PCP beat in the chest, talk about two states, talk about aggressors, when it went to endure Russia in the greatest barbarism against Ukraine in Europe of the 21st century. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is shameful how they can come here and knock their hands on their chest, when they support, support and defend the most violent, more autocratic, more dictatorial and less respectable regimes of human rights around the world. They want humanitarian aid for Gaza, even recognizing that Hamas has a large part of it and uses it to support its terrorist networks. They want more infrastructure, even knowing that Hamas has developed the most complex network of tunnels to finance terrorism. They want to give money to terrorism, which will one day come knocking on our door, as it has already done in Spain, France, Italy and Germany. on that day, the others will be here, as always, to defend Europe and its civilization from those who have endured dictators, those who have been enduring those who want to destroy us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, when Russia invaded Ukraine, we had no doubt which side we were on. We are on the side of those who defend democracy, human rights, and those who have been attacked without any reason. On day 7, Israel was attacked without any reason. Women have been raped, babies have been burned, hundreds of men and women continue to be kidnapped. Ronald Reagan said: "We never negotiate with terrorists and, when we start negotiating with them, it is the beginning of our weakness. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u56	We've had enough of negotiating with terrorists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u57	I do not know which side we have, nor do I know which domain Portugal wants to have in Europe, but I know one thing: when we start to give in to terrorism, especially that worst one, which does not respect the human rights of anyone, especially minorities, it is in those places that are violently attacked, we start to present our own defeat. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u58	There's memory. There is a true memory, because we know who in recent years has caused terror all over the world. Israel must certainly comply with international humanitarian law. Israel certainly has the right to defend itself. But they don't ask us, they never ask us, because we won't, to support terrorists, who only know how to use a bazouca or a gun as a word. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u59	I congratulate all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. If you will allow me, I present a very special compliment to Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos, elected Secretary-General of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u60	No one hits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u61	I also welcome the citizens who participate in the galleries at this session, particularly young people. It is always a pleasure to have you with us in this parliamentary work. I now give the floor to Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Corria the year 1927. In France, the feeling of insecurity was growing in the face of Germany in accelerated re-armament by revising the clauses of the Versailles Treaty. Unable to find credible alternatives to mitigate the threat to their security, the French leaders exchanged strategic guidance for spectacular proclamations of principles and good intentions, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs Aristide Briand proposed to his American counterpart, Frank Kellogg, a sort of universal and perpetual commitment to peace. The following year in Paris, the Briand-Kellogg Pact was signed with a pump and circumstances, which consecrated collective resignation to war in relations between States. Eleven years later, World War II began. With good will and ignoring, for moments, that some just want to bring an ideological bias to foreign policy and attack certain countries, we can consider that, in these days, the idealistic spirit of the idealists of the period between world wars, whose ingenuity has ended in tragedy, is coming back with great force. For the idealist, politics is to achieve the ideal without looking at means, contexts and realities of power and security. The idealist abandons himself to the imagination of his ideals, disregarding reality. The idealist sees the world as he wanted it to be and not as he is, and in doing so, adopts wrong policies that, most of the time, end very badly. Even though we should never give up fighting for the world as it should be, we can never ignore the world as it is. That is even more important in this time of war and anarchy back to the center of the international system. Internationally, revisionist totalitarian powers, such as Russia, Iran and North Korea, are committed to exploiting the end of unipolar stability to attack on various fronts the liberal and democratic international order. The project of peace, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, international law and human rights to which we have devoted much of our lives is now under threat. The Middle East, in particular, lives permanently in the world of Mars, God of War, today being subject to the increasing assertiveness of Iran. Iran is today the great stabilizer of the region, betting on creating an arc of crisis and chaos that includes Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Gaza, using, above all, its proxies, such as Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad and Houthis. Israel, the only democracy in the region, is threatened existentially by the most sinister forces, defenders of practices worthy of the most barbaric moments of the Middle Ages, as demonstrated by the terrorist attack of Hamas on 7 October. It is within this broader context that we should look at the draft resolutions submitted by the PS, the Left Block, the PCP, the Free and the PAN, recommending to the Government that progress towards the recognition of the State of Palestine. Let us be very clear in the position we stand for: we are firmly in favour of the two-State solution. The decisions we made in the past, when we were government, are unequivocal. I recall that it was during an executive led by the PSD that in November 2012 Portugal voted in favour of the vote that recognized the Palestinian territories as a non-member State of the United Nations with observer status. We deeply believe that the two-State solution is the only possible way for lasting peace in the region and the only way for both peoples to live the dignified and decent life they both deserve. However, we do not ignore the time, the international and regional context, the more or less veiled intentions of each one. Of course, we do not ignore that this is the worst time to move forward to the recognition of the State of Palestine. You don't realize how realistic this can be when there is a war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip. If you now recognize the State of Palestine, what is done with the Gaza Strip? Moreover, this recognition, following the terrorist attack of 7 October, seems to compensate for the barbaric act of Hamas, and this is unacceptable. We also believe that the two-State solution should be part of the peace negotiation process. It can also be one of the most powerful incentives to negotiate and willingly among the parties concerned to live in peace and security. It is essential for us that the recognition of the State of Palestine be made within the framework of a common European position or, at least, when there is a overwhelming majority of Member States of the European Union in favour. The worst thing that can happen to the European Union is to appear once again all divided into its foreign policy. We even consider it irresponsible to think of a unilateral recognition by Portugal or even within the framework of an ultra-minority and radicalized coalition, driven by the internal policy of another State. Portugal has long held a clear and unequivocal position on this subject and should not even align itself with the position of other States, much less with Spain's current foreign policy. The recognition of the State of Palestine must also be linked with the main allies of Portugal and the European Union, and it is particularly important for us to consider the positions of our allies and Atlantic friends. All this is ignored by all the draft resolutions submitted, except for the Socialist Party. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The PS project, not being mayor, cautions several sensitive points, is moderate and recommends that the Government act in a concerted manner with our allies so that the peace negotiation process which culminates in the two-State solution be resumed. We agree with this line, although we still have several concerns that are not fully guarded in the PS project, so we should continue to talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u63	Surely the PS will thank you for these compliments!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u64	Moreover, for our part, we are very committed to maintaining national consensus on Portuguese foreign policy and to leaving it out of the political-party struggle. This consensus has resulted in a vote recently adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic to condemn the terrorist attacks of Hamas in Israel, to recognize Israel's right to defend itself, to demand the release of all hostages, to reaffirm our sacred commitment to international and humanitarian law and the values of humanity and to express our support for all efforts to achieve lasting peace in the region, through the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, on the basis of the two-State solution. We believe that this consensus is desirable and possible, provided that the PS does not give parties to its left and does not align, as it has recently done, with radical texts contrary to the official position of the Portuguese State. We share the essential: the same pain for the suffering of innocent peoples, whether in Israel or in Palestine; the notion that all lives are sacred and have the same value; the commitment to international law without exceptions; and the love of humanist values, which we consider universal and perpetual. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Portugal's position has been to defend the two-State solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u65	Will you go there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u66	We believe deeply in that solution and in the future of peace between Israel and Palestine. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] As Simon Schama said, at the end of the magnificent BBC series ( British Broadcasting Corporation ) The History of the Jews, inspired in his book with the same name, and I quote: "The Bible is full of encounters between men and God, between men and men and between defiant brothers. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u67	Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá, you have a request for clarification by Mr Rui Tavares of the Free, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u68	Mr President, my greetings, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá, thank you for your intervention. I would like to see some points clarified, which I think are important. It makes us a distinction between idealism and realism. On the contrary, I would put a distinction between conformityism and non-conformity. We can conform to the fact that, since Bible times, there have been many stories of wayward brothers or sisters, or we can fight for the future of those who are still alive. To fight for this youth who is here, in the galleries, is also to fight for a Portugal that is not ashamed to take international positions, which is not ashamed to bring these debates here to the Assembly of the Republic. The first request for clarification that I make to the PSD is: since the PSD is not seen in any of the draft resolutions presented—not even in the PS, which seems to me to see more favourably, but consider it not perfect—how is it that a group with so many tens of Members, such as the PSD, does not present its own draft resolution? The Freeman never made a box of this debate, nor did he ever want to sign it, on the contrary. It is time for the PSD — which, above all, wants to conduct Portuguese foreign policy within a very short time — to tell what comes and present its draft resolution. Mr President, it is important that Portugal is not isolated from its allies. I ask myself: is the Community of Portuguese-speaking countries certainly part of it our allies? They're taking our allies away from her? How many countries in this community have not yet recognized the independence of Palestine? I do not need to make this request for clarification, I myself can clarify: one, which is Portugal. We're the only ones missing. It is the intention of the PSD to comply with a situation in which the two-State solution will become unviable—and we have heard representatives of the Israeli Government say today that it died, that it is not viable—or is the PSD able to tell the extremists on either side and the other side that the world is fighting for the two-State solution, and that, in fact, abandoning the two-State solution is the best prize that Hamas could have, because it knows precisely that, within Palestinian society, Hamas was always the one who opposed it? So if we say « not now, because Hamas has done anything», we are not only giving this prize to Hamas, as we are saying that every time the two-State solution is on the table, it is to make another terrorist attack to get it out of the way. by its own principles of political realism, does not consider that Portugal should already give concrete signs, examining precisely the criteria it has set for recognition of where Palestinian sovereignty, in fact, has its territorial extension and where, by the Government being exercised by Hamas, should it not be recognised in fact? Or since you think that the debate should be held at European level, is the PSD available to support Portugal, on the agenda of the European Council, of the Council of the European Union, bringing the subject of Palestinian recognition? This is what we are talking about, Mr President, and there is no theory of idealism and realism that can leave us unanswered to questions that are very concrete.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u69	To reply, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u70	Mr President, thank you for your questions. With regard to the first question, of the draft resolution, it seems to me that with what I said it is clear that timing seems to us that it is not quite famous. It is a question that must be discussed and we are available to continue the discussion, and what I said is that we were available to continue the discussion at 2. the Commission, which I think makes sense. With regard to isolated Portugal, I did not say that Portugal was isolated. What I said was that it was important to have a set of criteria for the recognition of the two States and that it was important to have — and the honourable Member should be the first to be sensitive to that — a majority, at least very clear, in order not to say unanimity, which I realize cannot be, of the European Union in that regard. The worst thing the European Union can do is start. But it is not only the European Union, it is also our transatlantic allies. I think we should also negotiate with them and guard their positions. In essence, therefore, it is not to be isolated, it is to be able to create the greatest consensus, the largest possible group of States, to recognize and not be a unilateral measure of Portugal or an ultra-minority, of an ultra-minoristic position. The third question I think raises an important point. Alert is to the fact that you are careful in the early recognition, because you can look at Hamas's terrorist attacks as a prize. Now, your question is a good question and it must lead us to reflect, because we cannot remain hostage to radicals, which can at any time call into question the peace process. It is a good question that raises, and I confess that I do not have an answer to that. I think we should be careful with both things: with the question that it raises, but also that it may seem that we are rewarding such an action that is absolutely unacceptable on October 7. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u71	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The various draft resolutions currently under discussion in this plenary deal with a conflict that is older than some imagine. It is also about lives—many lives, too many lives that have already ended, many lives that are suspended, oppressed, in suffering—but we hope that it will be above all about the lives that still deserve future. It is one of the most complex and sensitive themes of geopolitics, but the most sensitive and with numerous variables. The current configuration of this conflict dates back to the first half of the 20th century, having expanded after the Second World War, the Holocaust and the British Mandate of Palestine. It is a conflict with origin in the Great War of 1914 - 1918, which involved the Sykes-Picot Agreement, the Balfour Declaration and the Arab revolt led by Thomas Edward Lawrence, the famous Lawrence of Arabia. Earlier, during the Third French Republic at the end of the 19th century, the Dreyfus case had occurred, with its stain of anti-Semitism, also stimulating great Jewish migration at the end of the 19th century to the Middle East. And, in the previous 400 years, there was occupation of the same territory, occupation now in Egypt. The Crusaders also existed, which in turn were related to the Islamic invasions of the seventh century. We could look further back, for the Byzantine management of the territory, for the province of Judea within the Roman Empire and for the various empires of which it was part before that, the Persians, Babylonians, Assyrians, even the kingdom of Israel, in the tenth century B.C. If not the last 75 years can or should be condensed and simplified in events that happened in the last 74 days, imagine trying to do the same to a story that already far exceeds the three millennia. This contextualization, which we believe is necessary, then we come to the basic theme of today's agenda: the solution of the two States and the recognition of the independence of Palestine. The solution of two States is the proposal advocated by many, including the Liberal Initiative, in line and in line with the position that the Portuguese State has established a long time ago. That is why it is a relatively peaceful issue between the majority of the parties with parliamentary representation. The solution must and must, or rather, be concluded with the existence of two States. Both the Jews and the Palestinian Arab population have the legitimate right to aspire to a future in that region and to manage their own destinations there. There may be points of disagreement, yes, in the details of that solution, but these details must, above all, be discussed between the parties. If an agreement is established between both sides, there must be recognition and approval by the Portuguese State, regardless of the outcome of this negotiation and the solutions most dearest to the various parties in this House. On the second part, the recognition of the independence of Palestine, we can judge that there are many differences between the parties, but here again, the differences are in the details. As the Liberal Initiative in favour of the solution of the two States, it is also about the recognition of the independence of Palestine. Where we differ from some parties and where we converge with others is essentially in the « when». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, speaking in the occupation of Palestine, perhaps we should speak in the various occupations of Palestine, all of which are negative. Yes, because Palestine was not only occupied by settlements in the West Bank, it was also occupied by the terrorist organization that is Hamas, in Gaza. This occupation is not just territorial. It is enough to remember that all political forces outside the Hamas agenda were expelled from Gaza through violence and terrorism. Gaza, where a large part of the money and donations of supplies, medicines and water offered by the West to the Palestinian people have been systematically collected and missed by Hamas operators and distributed through their objectives. Infrastructures, such as water pipes, have also been reused for the creation of rockets launching platforms for Israeli territory. But we also speak of a social, cultural and mental occupation, a doctrine that begins early, in children of pre-school age. There he teaches to hate Israel, to hate the Jews, to hate the others who are different, there he teaches that dying to kill innocent citizens of the neighbouring country is good and even will receive the divine reward. It has also been seen, at the hands of the current Government of Israel, to the progressive empowerment of ultra-orthodox factions, also feeding hatred, and this increase of intolerance and hatred compromises diplomacy and compromises a viable solution for all those who live in that territory. Turning to the subject of the « when » : some resolutions have been examined, in particular the Left Block, when they demand that such recognition be immediate, it is important to recall the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, at a recent hearing in this Parliament, when he says that Portugal considers that the recognition of the State of Palestine is something that must happen, but in coordination with some close partners and at a time with a consequence for peace. Recalling the Minister's own words, and I quote: "We look at recognition not as something that can happen, but as something that must happen, yet to be undetermined the right moment at which it must happen. » And the Liberal Initiative is being revised in these words. It is a consistent position of the sovereignty organs of Portugal. If we look at our recent past, in this House, we conclude that, precisely nine years and a week ago, the Draft Resolution No. 1173 / XII / 4 was voted here and approved. a ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine in coordination with the European Union. This resolution is in line with the position of the Liberal Initiative, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese State, in particular when it refers to, in point 1, “Recognizing, in coordination with the European Union, the State of Palestine [...]” and, in point 2, “In conjunction with its partners in the European and international Union, continuing to promote the dialogue and peaceful coexistence of two democratic states, Israel and Palestine [... ]”. I take advantage of it to remind the honourable Members. Members who all the parliamentary boards of then voted in favour of point 2 and none voted against point 1, and the draft resolution was therefore adopted. In short, the position of the Liberal Initiative is not recent; it is the same position defended for many years by various parties and by the Portuguese State. Our position has not changed, it has remained constant, because the circumstances of this serious problem have not changed in its essence. Our position is not new, it is as always the position of our country, the position of the Portuguese State, which we subscribe, without reservations of any kind. Those who defend the right to self-determination of freely expressed peoples can only agree that the recognition of existence, as well as of the independence of a State, is a formal step that must be taken at the right time, so that this formal step has concrete implications for the people. At the right time, so that the desires of the peoples can be expressed. At the right time, to promote development. At the right time, to contribute to peace. That peace and that day be achieved is the desire of the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u73	You have a request for clarification from Mr Rui Tavares of the Free, to whom I give the floor immediately. You have the floor, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u74	Today you're tired of talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u75	Mr President, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, we are not in this House to agree on everything, we are precisely because we disagree in many things, and it is natural and legitimate that there are disagreements about the 'when' of the exercise of the recognition of Palestine as an independent State. It is natural that there is this difference between the Free and the Liberal Initiative. My request for clarification does not, then, cover this difference, about something that I would like to know more about by the Liberal Initiative, which is not the « when», but the « how ». That is, what are the necessary steps to take before that recognition? I understand what you say when you quote the Minister for Foreign Affairs - it is not very common to see you agree, but register - which says that this letter should be played at the right time. But one thing is not to show the letter and another thing is to say that we are ready to play it and, for that reason, the Portuguese State, from a legal and technical point of view, must have prepared all the necessary dossiers for that recognition to be made when the Portuguese State decides so. That calls for the draft Free Resolution, I would like to know if it is your opinion. In order to know a coordinated position at European level, which would obviously be more desirable, and even ideal, it needs to be discussed at European level. And therefore the draft resolution of the Free Book calls for Portugal to include this item on the agenda of the European Council or the Council of the European Union, of the Foreign Affairs Council. I therefore ask you whether we agree with this 'how'. And also, for all this to be done, there is something more immediate. And I agree with you, every life to be saved, we, however far we are, for many differences we have, must be in agreement: we cannot rest until we do everything to save it, whether this Israeli or Palestinian life. I ask you, then, if you agree that we must urge the Portuguese Government to complete the process of recognition of nationality to the hostages, who had already requested it before they were made hostages and who, according to our current law, have the right to Portuguese nationality and can therefore be released. And I ask you, too, if you defend an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, because at the moment what is happening with the bombings impeding that population is that terrorism is not being destroyed, you are probably creating the conditions for even more terrorism, which will make the two-State solution even more difficult, and that is also part of a draft resolution presented today to this debate, for an immediate ceasefire and for humanitarian measures, and I wonder how the Liberal Initiative will vote on that project.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u76	To reply, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u77	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, as I said above, in the rostrum, the issue is quite complex and, therefore, if any of us in this House, in this debate, think that you are giving a quick, easy answer to what is happening, that has happened and that will happen in that territory, you will be lying because the answer will never be right or profound. Trying to sum up, I would say that there are two essential things for the recognition of the State of Palestine: the first is to stop the conflict that exists at that time, and anything that is done at this time can further enhance the conflict that exists than the reverse. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] And, therefore, only after that conflict stops—in which there is a democratic state fighting a terrorist organization, is not a war between two states that is happening—when that conflict ends, yes, it can move on to the second stage. And then, I think there is a macro criterion, greater, that there is the conditions for what is a state. And I think that none of us here can say with conviction that there is now conditions for Palestine to be a State. I don't think there is; if anyone says so, I'll disagree. [[L. Protests.]] With regard to ceasefire, it was easier if we were talking about a conflict between two States. Like I said, we're not. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u78	They haven't held elections for 15 years! Great state!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u79	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concept of two peoples, two States, Israelis and Palestinians, living side by side in two nations, is an internationally assumed postulate and the founding condition for a peace in the Middle East with justice. The current, deadly circumstances faced by the Middle East cannot inhibit the overall understanding of the issue. This conflict, resumed once again, tragically demonstrates that the solution of the two States is the only way, although difficult and painful to achieve. The right to self-determination is recognized in the Charter of the United Nations and applies to both Israelis and Palestinians and translates into the right to establish their own independent States. That is why Resolution n. o181, already mentioned above, approved in 1947 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, prior to the partition of the British Palestinian Mandate, the division of its territory with a view to the creation of a Hebrew State and another Arab State. Moreover, already in the Balfour Declaration itself of 1917, the United Kingdom was advancing with the promise of the creation of a homeland for the Jewish people, but it also stated clearly that such desire could not prejudice the civil and religious rights of non-Hebrew communities in the territory. The political-military circumstances said that in 1948 the Jewish people had achieved this homeland, now Israel, an objective which the Arabs had not achieved. Since then, peace and war have taken place. The international community has repeatedly affirmed the right of Palestinians to self-determination, including the Oslo Agreements of 1993, or the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative. In the Oslo Agreements, freely signed between the parties, i.e. the Government of Israel and the Organization for the Liberation of Palestine, the only legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, the path was clearly drawn: two States and two peoples living side by side, in security and internationally recognized borders, equivalent largely to those prior to the 1967 conflict. It's just missing, just doing it. Unfortunately, radical forces on both sides have always sought to undermine international consensus and signed agreements. In fact, in that area of the world, hatred always seems to speak higher than moderation; those who courageously overcome it and dare to wake up to peace often pay a very high price: so it was with Anwar al-Sadat, Egyptian President, after Camp David, but also with Yitzhak Rabin, Prime Minister of Israel, after the Oslo Accords, both murdered by those who, on either side, do not accept peace and understanding; before, the irredentism blind and violence. [[PSD applause.]] And so it has been with so many innocent, Hebrew, Arab, or Christian victims, who have aggravated the tragedy and whose loss keeps us from peace and understanding. Thus it is found that the question of the status of the State of Palestine is undoubtedly complex and is linked to a history of conflicts and political maneuvers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the aspirations of the Palestinian people to self-determination are therefore undeniable. However, recognition at this time can jeopardise the very prospect of a peaceful resolution. This has been the vision of the European Union, which has avoided hasty unilateral recognitions. The recognition by Member States was made, above all, while those countries were not members of the European Union. In most cases, in the course of autocratic regimes, such as the cases of 1988, the former Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria or Poland, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u81	What about the Swedish Social Democrat?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u82	in this framework, Israel's recognition of the State of Palestine would be extemporaneous and disrespectful of our country's international commitments and its status as a member of the European Union, in whose terms we must agree to positions in order to help constructively find a definitive solution to the peace process. Despite the difficult situation at present, the peace process will continue to be the crucial factor in determining the status of Palestine. Before recognition is considered, it is essential a concrete, binding peace plan that addresses the root causes of the conflict, including the status of Jerusalem, the question of settlers, the definition of borders, security and access to water, as well as the freedom of Palestinian movements and the right of return of refugees from previous conflicts. The international role of the European Union, the United States or the Arab League is fundamental for its implementation to be effective and the right to peace finally achieved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u83	Mr Deputy, you do not register requests for clarification and therefore we move to an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House : over the last few decades the Palestinian people have been the victim of a'sufficient occupation'. These are the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, who adds that the Palestinians saw their lands being continually devoured by settlers and desolated by violence, that their economy was suffocated, their people were displaced, their homes demolished, and that their hopes for a political solution to the situation have been disappearing. We don't need to look at the Gaza Strip, it's enough for the West Bank. At the end of June, the Government of the State of Israel, led by Benjamin Netanyahu, approved the construction of more than 5000 houses in illegal settlements in regions of the West Bank which, in the light of international agreements, do not belong to the State of Israel. Veterans of the Israeli army have come to denounce abuses, violations of law and the daily humiliations to which Palestinians are subjected in occupied regions. They also denounce the protection the Israelite army makes to ultra-Orthodox settlers who use violence to occupy more lands. Amnesty International denounces the Israeli authorities, who repeatedly use the administrative detention of Palestinian citizens in the West Bank and the repeated torture in their detention centres. The evidence is in sight, proven by various and credible international organizations. A few weeks ago, we received here in Parliament a delegation from several Portuguese authorships—presidents of municipal chambers elected by various political parties—who, in representation of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, visited the West Bank and reported what is easily evident on the ground: that Palestinian civilians cannot live their lives freely, as we do in Portugal. On 7 October this year, Hamas terrorist organization launched several attacks in Israeli cities near the Gaza Strip and the center of Israel, using the launch of thousands of rockets against Israeli population centres, killing about 1200 Israelis, wounding and kidnapping countless defenceless civilians. These brutal attacks on civilians deserve clear and unequivocal condemnation. Since then, the State of Israel has launched an offensive on the Gaza Strip that has not saved Palestinian civilians. According to the Ministry of Health, almost 19,000 Palestinians have already been killed in these attacks. of these, about 70% are women and children. Unicef has classified Gaza as the most dangerous place in the world to be a child. About 115 minors are being killed on average on a daily basis in that territory. « There is no water, no electricity, no medicines » and « no conditions for disease spreading to be prevented », said Jorge Moreira da Silva, Executive Director of UNOPS ( United Nations Office for Project Services ), who recognized the total collapse of Gaza Strip infrastructures. According to the World Health Organization, the last functional hospital in the north of that region is a humanitarian disaster zone. from the North to the South, there is today no safe zone in Gaza. Almost two million people have been displaced, about 80 % of the population of that territory. Therefore, the question is how, with these events, one can prepare the way for peace. Violence, revenge and repression generate hatred and more violence and have never brought anything good to mankind. This is something that the extreme right does not understand, but which must be at the head of any of the Democrats in this Parliament. The solution to the question of Palestinian territory is, therefore, political, non-military, and cannot go through anything other than the fulfilment of UN resolutions and international law, assuming the coexistence between these two peoples and their right to establish their own State. In other words, by implementing the known two-State solution, which is certainly not a silver bullet, but is an essential step. One of the parts is made. The existence of the State of Israel is neither and can be questioned and must be defended. What is to be fulfilled is the other side of the coin, the recognition of a free Palestinian state. The path that Portugal must follow is therefore to ensure multilaterally and in the organisations in which it is included, in particular in the European Union, that actions have consequences and a real impact on the search for a political solution to the conflict. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to work to ensure that the recognition of the State of Palestine is a reality, in order to ensure a fair division of territory, so that these two peoples can live side by side, in peace and in security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u85	You only had six palms! Only six palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u86	We now turn to an intervention by Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's get to the bottom. The essential is the perception of the geopolitical context in which the so-called "Israel-Palestinian" conflict is inserted, but which is, in fact, Israeli-Iranian. This conflict in which, in turn, if the concrete measures proposed in the projects brought to debate today are inserted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u89	Its discussion should take into account this geopolitical context, the alliance bringing together an arc of countries that extend from China and North Korea to Venezuela, passing through Russia, through Iran and, in an early manner, through Turkey, in its most ancient empires that intend to rebuild themselves as such in a world on the way to becoming multipolar. But in addition to the much that separates these autocracies, and much is, unites them the war that remains of the multi-century world predominance of the West and its values.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u90	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u91	It is a deaf and larval war, but it has become clear and open in two current battlefields, Ukraine and Israel, with the danger of two new battles this war may hatch: Taiwan, invaded by China, and South Korea, invaded by North Korea.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u92	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u93	Now, if you open up, simultaneously with the others, these two battlefields, the future of the West, their values and their liberal democracies, will be more than uncertain. But these two new battlefields will only open if the West does not stand firmly united in support of Israel, as it is with Ukraine, because it is in these two war theatres that today plays the future of the West. I said this a month ago, I repeated it a week ago, and I reaffirm it today, here too: Western democracies are united behind Ukraine, which is far from happening to Israel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u95	On the contrary. And this difference of positions does not find any justification, since, unlike Ukraine, Israel is a member of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). And then, because this conflict is not merely Israeli-Palestinian, but indeed Israeli-Iranian, that is, a greater conflict. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Hamas is just one more of the armed militia directly or indirectly controlled by Iran, which acts visibly in close alliance with Russia. It can be seen that this new front of fighting the West came, dividing efforts, removing pressure on the Ukrainian front. In view of this insurmountable issue of substance, and as regards the projects under discussion, we see that virtually all of them focus on the need for the recognition of the independence of Palestine or the promotion of the existence of two States. Nothing to oppose as to the objective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u97	... but he understands that there are no conditions for the simple beginning of negotiations while the Palestinians, and among them those in Gaza, are mere hostages of armed militias who use them now as a shield, now as a weapon of shooting, in order only to annihilate the State of Israel on account of Iran, who has already said, without beating, that Israel is a malignant tumor to have to be removed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As long as these movements exist and are supported by who they are, it is an illusion to think about negotiations that will never take anywhere. Successful negotiations are supposed to be good negotiation between the parties. As long as there is no such good faith in one part, these negotiations will only serve to aggravate the problem, never to solve it. And as long as Iran is ruled by whom it is, as it is, for the purposes of Israel which it publicly proclaims, and as long as the Palestinians are hostages to the armed militias that obey Iran, any negotiations will operate only against Israel. Should it be another way? I should. But politics — and, in particular, foreign policy — is based on judgments of reality, not on judgments of value. It is the kingdom of what it is, not the kingdom of what it should be. Israel has the equivalent of the population of Portugal concentrated in a territory equivalent to two thirds of the Alentejo, surrounded by enemies framed by militias armed by almost all borders. A mistake of analysis of its leaders and it will be a hecatombe for Israel and a grave defeat for the West, that is, for all of us. Understanding, though, the goodness and good intentions of the projects brought here, in the name of the indispensable realism, we must say that they do nothing to help resolve the situation on the ground. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u98	We now turn to an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u99	He's a single Member! You're the only Member who speaks!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The debate which today, in good time, the Free House has called on us, of course, many different opinions, many of them at a distance, often without the proximity and without the detail that it would be essential for a debate with these characteristics. The Prime Minister of the State of Israel, moreover, stressed that much of the conflict lies in the fact that there is a lot of history for so little geography. This is also the case in the debate, as we have seen today: diversity of views, even within the same benches, different positions on the various issues which, over the last 70 years, in the first line, and later, in relation to other aspects, divide public opinions, divide the debates in national parliaments. But perhaps we should start precisely by the opposite, by what unites us and by the points in which we tend to agree transversally, as Mr Rui Tavares said earlier. In times when everything apparently divides us, when everything is a pretext for division and conflict, we will begin the debate, first of all, from the two points on which I think we all agree. It is fundamental, it is the only guarantee for peace in that territory, the existence of two States with security and with viability for both. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And it is essential to save all innocent lives that have been hostages of side by side extremism for decades and difficulties in building solutions. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] First of all, those who were the victims, on October 7, of what is perhaps comparable to a sum of events similar to the pogroms of the 19th century, such as September 11, a Bataclan and an attack of the Islamic State, all happening in the same place at the same time, motivated by anti-Semitism. And then, of course, the many civilian victims of the bombings, of the use as human shields, of the release of rockets from one side to the other,... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] ... that has led to the loss of countless lives, that has made the existence of thousands and thousands of people cease and that, for this reason, of course, all must mobilize us in the same way. It is, apparently, to reiterate the obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u101	Only one side is he's a bully!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u102	But in some debates, to reiterate the obvious, sometimes it is also fundamental. And to reiterate the obvious would also be indispensable when we look at part of what we are watching. What Hamas practiced on October 7 has a degree of barbarism and rejection of common values that should all of us unite, which should have no margin for doubts in condemnation. And fortunately, in Portugal there have been few doubts and hesitations, which are not comparable to what we have seen in other states. But, in fact, at the moment of our debate, Hamas is the only agent in the territory who is having everything he wanted from the attacks he caused: he radicalized the debate, made extremists in Israel gain spaces that would have no other way and made them fall into the trap of promoting an unmeasured and unbalanced form and reaction, which in no way contributes to the solution of the conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u103	Ivan, are you listening?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u104	In addition, Europe outside, the United States outside, at various points in the world, has ensured an increase in anti-Semitism as it has not seen since the 1930s.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u105	This is a debate between the PS! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u106	And that's what should make us think about the monsters we let go and put back on the street. Since Islamophobia, taken advantage of by the far-rights of Europe outside as a way of marking points, the anti-Semitism that grows in various places and where today we have Jewish communities that are once again afraid. They're scared again because their synagogues are attacked, they're scared again because the walls of their schools are hit by saying they attack them and they're scared again because they're discriminated against, when we thought we didn't have to watch this again in Europe. And all this is fed because, on the side and in many places... This, of course, without generalizations: when it is said 'by the side', we are not trying to blame the Palestinians and the Israelites, who only want to live a decent life, only want to come alive at the end of the week. These are not the culprits of what is happening, but they are those who instrumentalize them, to themselves, to their pain and to their suffering, to achieve something different from themselves. As I said, what we are witnessing today, for Europe and for the outside world, must make us reflect that this is a debate about the State of Palestine, but it is also a debate about the State of Israel. And let us not forget, too, that they have to exist both. Therefore, it is important not to forget and try to understand something that is perhaps so difficult to do at this time, the ability to put ourselves in the place of the other — and the « other» is of the « others», of the other two» — and to try to understand why Israel, at the end of so many years of existence, still feels surrounded and still feels the need to defend its national state. It is an aspiration with two millennia. This is an aspiration of those who, every year, repeated: "for the year in Jerusalem" because they wanted and aspired to their origin. But, of course, this cannot be done in spite of the rights of others, who aspire to have their national state. So let us not rewrite the story in the convenience of the arguments that we want to use at each moment, and do a more difficult exercise: we understand why the Israelites continue to have a feeling that they have to fight every day for the assurance that there is a State on the planet where the Jews can feel safe. What we know, when we hear shouting « from river to sea» in demonstrations or political speeches, is that from river to sea means that there is no room for the State of Israel. from the river to the sea means that someone wants to replace those who have lived there for 75 years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u107	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u108	... to those who have lived there for 100 years, to those who have also lived there for thousands of years—because there are Jews in the territory of Israel and Palestine for thousands of years, uninterruptedly. And if we fail to meet these two sides, these two realities, these two peoples who have and will have to live in that place, we will not be doing a proper service to this cause.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u110	But having said this, it is also important not to forget that today, in Israel, the extremism of your government is the worst enemy of peace and a lasting solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u112	We have a judicially harassed Prime Minister who was not hesitated to destroy the rule of law to polarize society and to survive politically. A Prime Minister who bases his government coalition on extremist radicals who repeatedly want to expand the colonies into what they call Judea and Samaria and who instigate hatreds against the Palestinians — effectively finding, on the opposite side, extremists who do so in relation to the Israelites. Therefore, if we do not have the ability to look aside to the problems and to the decision-makers—who are not up to the history of the moment, they are not up to those who in the past have made peace and who, as has already been said in this debate, have lost their lives for peace, because they have been killed because they have the courage to go against the public opinions of their countries and have died victims of extremists on their own—if we do not have that ability to help calm the level of discussion and help to do this debate, we will not have the ability to build a debate either. That is why the use of concepts that are not rigorous should be avoided. When we look at this conflict, we can clearly criticize Israel for the excessive use of force in what is happening in Gaza without having to use expressions that do not have adequacy here like :apartheid, colonialism, genocide or ethnic cleansing. I think we can and should, or rather, have a duty to be strict with concepts because otherwise we will not help at all. If that is not the case, we, who are calmly and comfortably away from that confrontation, will not be helping to solve any of the problems. We can and should denounce the excessive use of force. We can and should repudiate the absence of humanitarian concerns. Above all, we must build peace and, once again, not dig a gap that creates more distance, demonstrating that we have more judgment than we often have in the way we view these debates. I grew up in a time of deceptive hope, when it was thought that the end of history was going around the corner and that Oslo was this hope about this conflict, which was razed, murdered, in a square in Telavive, when Yitzhak Rabin was shot by an extremist of his own people, having ended there the hopes of many. The story returned, with all the demolition strength it had; it returned to Israel, returned to Ukraine, returned to Latin America and Europe. Looks like we're living the worst years and the worst decades of the 20th century again. I mean again, this is not just a debate about the State of Palestine or the State of Israel. This is a debate about the State of Palestine and the State of Israel. Therefore, all that we believe to be right for the Israelites, which is to have a State with safe defences and life assurance for all its citizens, is exactly the same as we have to guarantee to the Palestinians, ensuring their recognition and the end of a occupation and an increase in colonies that have been very late. I recall the words of Israeli writer Amos Oz, who in his writings on fanaticism may have made the best contribution to this debate. In fact, the fanatic is the one who at one time loses empathy, loses humanity, loses the ability to evaluate the complex and is only focused on having the gain of cause of those hours, that day and that end. So, what the Socialist Party here proposes today is that we present a resolution that not only sets the right path, but that is consistent with that path, because, in fact, this debate is already full. Finally, recalling the words of the Ecclesiastics—although not quoting by order—that are often called here, there is a time to kill and a time to heal, a time to overthrow and a time to build up, a time to love and a time to hate, a time to be quiet and a time to speak. This is a time to speak because, above all, there is a time of war and a time of peace, and our role, our small contribution to this must be balanced and must recognize everyone on the ground today suffering the ability to build a State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u113	You have a request for clarification from Mr Rui Tavares, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u114	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, said in his speech that in debates like this, sometimes it is necessary to reiterate the obvious, and I fully agree with that. In humane debates, it is sometimes necessary to reiterate the obvious. However, I would like to ask you about one thing that after your intervention, which was long, was not obvious to me and that is the following: if there is a time for everything, we need to know what Parliament's time is, this Parliament's time is. Let us all understand: who will one day recognize the state of Palestine as an independent and sovereign state—if there is still Palestine to recognize—will be the Government of Portugal, it will not be Parliament. But what this Parliament can do, as it has done in the past, is to recommend that the Government recognise that independent State. The draft resolution of the Free will is this, because it proposes that the Portuguese State take the appropriate steps, the appropriate, appropriate steps, to make such recognition as soon as possible, in the appropriate time; that it is not in a position or to drag its feet, or to go after others; and that it prepares itself, from a technical and legal point of view, to, where necessary, have all the letters in hand in order to make that recognition. The draft Free Resolution also says that there is a time to debate and that there is a time to debate within the Council of the European Union. Therefore, the question is very simple; it is whether Mr Pedro Delgado Alves thinks it is legitimate, which is acceptable, that we can be head-on outside this Parliament. I say this because two of the most important things that happened during this legislature were: the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation of Putin, about which we talked and discussed, and we had several occasions to do so, having adopted one resolution; and the other, which is the current phase of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, for which we would not even have had a debate if the Book had not set the agenda for today. I repeat, we would not have had a debate on this subject of the recognition of Palestine in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u115	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u116	The Assembly of the Republic is about to be dissolved and no one has marked this debate in favour of legitimate themes, some of which were marked five, six, ten times during this legislature. That is why I ask you: is it legitimate to be able to close our mandate and say that the Assembly of the Republic did not say what it thought? Oh, my God! As for the government, you will do as you please. The government has the driving of foreign policy, the government has the driving of diplomacy. But Parliament has a political voice. And Portugal in which I believe is one where Parliament is not afraid to speak and to say what should be done and what will be done by the Executive. Therefore, the question I ask you is whether it is legitimate even that, at the present stage of the conflict — even more acute than others — Portugal, through this Assembly of the Republic, does not have a political and parliamentary position that is within the limit of what you can have, but without which we cannot look at our fellow citizens and say: « The world out there was burning and we were here to realize that nothing happened».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u117	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u118	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, we can stand up with a serious debate and recognize that the complexity and difficulty of the subject do not allow us to go beyond what we have here. We do not forget the scale of intervention and influence that we may have, we think that it must be done on its own, through the European institutions, and especially because we are at the most critical stage is that we should be more careful and more thoughtful, rather than contribute to matters that are, at the limit and in the way we view them, even extemporaneous. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u119	A weighted government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u120	The Bureau is not registering at the moment... [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the request for a speech by Mr Paulo Pisco of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A British journalist said that, as long as the 1948 ghost continues to mate, there will be no hope of peace in the Middle East. That is why today's debate in Parliament must be understood as a modest contribution to peace, to an immediate ceasefire, to the liberation of hostages and for Israelis and Palestinians to build a future of security and mutual recognition, without radicalism or radicalism. History shows that as time goes on, the creation of the State of Palestine becomes more difficult to achieve, particularly due to the constant and persistent construction of settlements in the West Bank in East Jerusalem, which the United Nations itself considers to be an illegal occupation. It was also the United Nations which in 1974 reaffirmed the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination, sovereignty and independence and the right to return all refugees to their territory. over decades there have been several exodus. Let us hope that now in Gaza there is no other place for Egypt, where more than one and a half million Palestinians run away from the bombs without knowing where to stay. If it is not through the creation of a State of Palestine, possibly with a strengthened and renewed Palestinian authority and without interference from terrorist groups, fully recognising the State of Israel, there will probably never again be peace, and societies will also suffer the consequences of this failure. Manichaeism, which cannot see more than good on one side and bad on the other, only nourishes hatred and inhumanization, which prevents the human being who exists behind the life of every Palestinian and every Israelite. the barbaric terrorist attacks of Hamas, which have spread pain and anguish in Israel, followed then a brutal offensive of the Israeli forces, which caused a humanitarian situation that the United Nations support organizations and agencies consider apocalyptic. Civilians cannot under any circumstances be the target of indiscriminate or humanitarian aid-free attacks — a violation of international humanitarian law. After the solution of the two states has been relatively forgotten in public opinion in recent years, here it is again breaking up forcefully in the context of this war, even by the voice of those who should never have left it, such as the United States and the European Union. For too long, the solution of the two States was little more than a rhetorical proclamation, without any concrete steps being taken, thus tolerating the fragmentation and progressive decrease of the territory, the loss of autonomy of the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and East Jerusalem, the increase in resentment and rejection of the creation of the State of Palestine. That is why there is now an urgent need. But it is necessary to change the approach to enforce the need for the establishment of the State of Palestine, with the adjustments which the parties consider mutually acceptable. It has already been noted that although there are 139 United Nations Member States that have been recognizing the State of Palestine, in an attempt to end the continuing violation of human rights and resolutions of the United Nations, the truth is that this has contributed nothing to the resolution of the problem or had any practical effect, not even those who have decided to make recognition unilaterally within the European Union, as was the case with Sweden in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u122	But you're not ashamed of what you're saying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u123	On the contrary, today the situation is much worse and there are those who consider that there are no more conditions for the creation of the State of Palestine.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u124	But do you really believe that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u125	The current Israeli government, the most extreme of all, opposes its creation and often appears publicly responsible Israeli governments framed by a map in which Palestine no longer exists. Gaza is devastated and the dead continue to increase, 60 % of which women and children, without counting on those who are in the rubble. Never so many journalists, United Nations officials and health personnel were victims of a conflict. at the same time, and at the outbreak of the tragedy in Gaza, in the West Bank continues the war of the settlers against the Palestinians, who continue to be killed, driven out of their lands, stripped of their possessions, without any scruple of humanity. Therefore, the creation of the State of Palestine, which Portugal has always defended and which now has a government that has been diligent in this matter is a last cry of appeal to avoid more deaths, destruction and suffering, so that it is given to the Palestinian people the same right as the Israeli people have already had and can both have their state living side by side in peace and security. But it is necessary to commit the international community and to persuade Israel to become part of this objective, working with a sense of urgency and firmness, and the European Union, the United States and the United Nations must be in line with the creation of the conditions for the recognition of a viable State of Palestine. For them to end, once and for all, aggression, hatred, insecurity and the tragedy of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as an unbearable moral burden on posterity. Therefore, although we understand the intention of some of the proposals presented here by the various parliamentary groups for the unilateral and immediate recognition of the State of Palestine, we believe that they have no effectiveness and that this would be diplomatically inconsequential, because there can be no state without territory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u126	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u127	... without the defined borders, without autonomy, without independence to make decisions and decide on their destiny and resources, without an entity that administers sovereignly and thus be integrated into international law and into the concert of nations. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] I'm done now, Mr. President. We defend that the Government of Portugal — the present and the next — is committed to putting all its efforts to mobilize as many countries and institutions as possible for this cause, creating the political conditions and the appropriate international framework for a state of Palestine to actually see and finally the light of the day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u128	The Bureau shall not record any request for clarification. For this reason, we now give the floor to Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech by pointing out that, contrary to what we have heard today, here, the PSD Parliamentary Group has brought this issue to debate during the past October, following Hamas' attacks on Israeli civilians and therefore, in this sense, Mr Rui Tavares, it is false that we are only discussing this subject on the initiative of the Free. It is not much my record, but since it has been said so many times, we could not fail to point out that the PSD Parliamentary Group also had this concern about two months ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u130	recognition of the independence of Palestine?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u131	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards the end of this debate and the PSD could not fail to reaffirm its position once again. We are firmly in favour of the solution of the two States, as called for in United Nations Resolution 181 of 1947, which provided for the creation of an Arab State and a Jewish State in the territory of Palestine. We believe that this solution, apart from being just and the most historically sustained, is also the one that will allow for peaceful and secure coexistence, so that millions of people can live their lives in peace. When we achieve this solution, the legitimate aspirations of Israel and Palestine will finally be guarded, recognizing both peoples' right to self-determination. We also believe that this should be the position of Portugal in the international community and, when we are government, we will work with our European and Atlantic allies to move forward on a concerted path, particularly in the resumption of the peace negotiation process that culminates in the solution of the two States.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u132	They said that 20 years ago, but they never did!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u133	The PSD participates in this debate and in all those involved, recognizing the complexity of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We do not make simple readings that lead us to hasty conclusions or sounds, seeking to place on one side all the blame and all the responsibilities of a serious matter, which has already cost thousands and thousands of people over the last seven decades. We will always be on the side of the solution that culminates in peace and we will not seek, with our positions, to contribute to inflame or divide, particularly when we know that the perpetuation of this conflict serves the interests of the terrorist groups, serves the interests of the radical groups on both sides and those who want the destabilization of the Middle East, all of this at a too tragic cost — the continued loss of lives on both sides and the destruction of entire families and communities. PSD, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will never compromise on the victory of hate. But today, we can also say more: for us, being a friend of Israel means telling our Israeli friends that we are proud of the democracy they have built,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u134	They're proud of apartheid!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u135	... and that their safety is a matter of concern to all of us; that the Jewish people must have a national home to live in peace and freedom,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u136	In the legalization of torture!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u137	... without being subjected to persecutions like those that were targeted throughout the history of humanity, living last October 7th the greatest pogrom since the horrors of World War II, with a barbaric attack for which there is no justification. Being a friend of Israel means being next to his pain and demanding that all of the more than 130 hostages, made by Hamas, return to their homes and be delivered to their families. Being a friend of Israel means helping to create and continue ties of friendship and recognition of its right to exist by Arab countries, such as Egypt and Jordan, with whom it has treaties of peace, and more recently through agreements with Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco or Sudan. But being a friend of Israel also means telling our Israeli friends to move away from the solution of the two states, which cautions the self-determination of the Palestinians, will also harm and question their own safety, security and life of their citizens and the future sustainability of their State. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the other hand, being a friend of Palestine means to tell our Palestinian friends that we agree with their goal and with their self-determination, which allows the creation of the State of Palestine. To be a friend of Palestine means, for us, to support its internationally recognized authority so that it can establish itself as a legitimate and peaceful interlocutor of the will of the Palestinian people. To be a friend of Palestine is to recognize that the Palestinians are not Hamas or any other terrorist group that undermines and hinders the national aspirations of the Palestinians. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, being a friend of Palestine means expressing our solidarity for all civilians who are victims of this conflict and the present war, also saying that the legitimate fight against terrorism should minimize the cost of civilian life in the Gaza Strip or the West Bank. To be a friend of Palestine means to continue to defend humanitarian support for people who suffer from war, always seeking to ensure that such support effectively reaches those who need it and does not remain in the hands of terrorists. But being a friend of Palestine also means telling our Palestinian friends that they must refuse terrorism and fundamentalism, the visions that defend the abolition of the State of Israel or the solutions that say that Palestine must be free from the river to the sea, because between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea there is another State, which also has the right to exist in the solution of the two States. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this statement, the PSD reaffirms its commitment to the past, present and future. We support the solution of the two States and support the right to Israel and Palestine. We defend that solution as part of a peace process. We defend the recognition of the State of Palestine within the framework of a common European position and will support all solutions that extend the peaceful coexistence of the two peoples in that region. To finish, and as we have already said today, we do not ignore the world as it is, but we always fight for the world as it should be. As statesman Shimon Peres once said: « I support the solution of the two national states: the Jewish State, Israel, an Arab State, Palestine. The Palestinians are our closest neighbors and I believe that one day they will be our best friends. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u138	The Bureau made a request for clarification from Mr Rui Tavares, whom I shall immediately address.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u139	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Poço, could request one of those requests from the Bureau for the distribution of documents, so that we could simply compare the title of the debate we had and the title of the debate we have. We have clearly not had any debate marked by the PSD on the recognition of Palestine's independence as part of the two-State solution. We had a legitimate debate in which, in fact, we worked in a common text, which we did not sign in common, precisely because the PSD felt that, in that text, we should only talk about the warming of the terrorist attack of 7 October, perpetrated by Hamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u140	Exactly! The terrorists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u141	He also considered it to be extemporaneous, for example, to speak of violations of international law, in the offensive and in the escalation that was announced about Gaza. Therefore, Mr Alexandre Poço, I would ask you to clarify this: if it was extemporaneous to talk about today's debate two months ago, it cannot say that today's debate has been discussed two months ago and that the PSD has marked it. But then I ask you something that now, two months back, is it possible to answer: are there violations of international humanitarian law in Gaza or not? Are there war crimes in the blocking of access to supplies, water and electricity, in the bombing of the structures of first need? If there are war crimes, we can say that—as we say in Ukraine, in relation to war crimes perpetrated by whoever it is, but in particular by the Wagner militia or the Russian army—where war crimes exist, there are war criminals. And where there are war criminals, they must be tried. Is Mr Alexandre Poço prepared to say that there were war crimes in Gaza and that his perpetrators must be tried, including in the Israeli Government? Finally, I did not hear this in your speech, but I would like to see whether you claim that there must be a cease-fire, because if there are violations of international law and if there are war crimes, they must stop and, for that, a cease-fire is necessary. I would therefore like to understand your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u142	In reply, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor. It still has 48 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, I asked to highlight that initial topic in my speech because I understand that no party has the exclusive concern about the issues. It is because you have spent the afternoon bragging that, if it weren't for the Free, this would never be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u144	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u145	Mr President, this subject would never be discussed in terms of the draft resolution of the Book, but, in terms of our concern with this conflict, the PSD was careful to schedule a debate on this issue last October, and therefore we made it clear, then, as now, some commitments that are essential to us. We understand that a State, when it is attacked, has the legitimate right to defend itself. We also said that all the hostages should be... [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u146	Let me hear, it's always the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u147	Mr. Rui Tavares, I kept quiet to hear you. He's just doing what he's always criticizing others. [[PSD applause.]] We have said some things with which we agreed in a text that had the majority support of this House: condemning terrorism, recognizing that those who are attacked have the right to defend themselves, and that they have the right to defend themselves in accordance with international law. So what does that mean? That should minimize to the maximum the number of civilian losses and people who are affected by a war situation, which is what is happening right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u148	What if they don't minimize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u149	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u150	I'm done, Mr. President. We also highlighted concerns such as the immediate return of all hostages and the guarantee that the Gaza Strip had humanitarian support that would effectively reach the population, and that it would not remain in the hands of terrorist organizations and terrorists that would prevent it from reaching the population. This was the position of the PSD: respect for international law, respect for people and minimization of civil losses. This has been and will always be our position. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u151	Mr Pedro Pessanha, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government who have just joined this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact is that, regardless of the initiatives that may be adopted — whether in this House or in other assemblies, where Hamas' dictatorship and terrorism have more followers than Israel's democracy — Israel will continue with all military operations necessary either to dismantle the physical structure of Hamas' tunnels and shelters, or to eliminate its human command structure. If neither Hezbollah nor Iran can stop Israel, it is certainly not this Free initiative that will succeed. So this conflict will continue, and what we have to ask ourselves is how it will evolve. on a plane closer to us, how can it affect us and what can we do to prevent its consequences for Portugal and the Portuguese? It is not very plausible that the direct fights between Israel's army and Hamas terrorists reach national territory, but it is very possible that Hamas' dirty war, made of attacks on civilians and massacres on defenseless people, spread across Europe. London, Paris and Madrid have already been the scene of cowardly attacks of Islamic terrorism that aim only and merely spread terror, killing defenseless people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u153	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u154	What can we do at national level to minimize this risk? First, and first of all, to prohibit the entry into Portugal of Islamic terrorists. We had already in October this year a terrorist who killed in Brussels, after having passed on to Portugal. The dismantling of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), which served as the first call for surveillance, was a wrong step in this direction. What we are strongly recommending is the rise in the level of alert of information services in this area. Let everything be done so that Portugal will not be accused by its partners in the European Union as an accomplice to the worsening of European insecurity. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u155	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: "We are fighting animals and we act accordingly. » This is the phrase of the Minister of Defence of Israel. If this phrase helps to perceive the brutality and violence we witnessed, it also helps to explain the death of three Israeli hostages by the Israeli Army itself. They were dressed in white robes, raised a white sheet and executed. The Israelite army thought they were Palestinian civilians. The episode is paradigmatic. Dehumanization is total. The Israelite hostages are victims of a thirst for revenge. In the face of this brutality, what do they tell us? In similar brutality, we were told that Ukraine had to join the European Union in order to protect the rights of the Ukrainian people; in Palestine only after the war ended. In Ukraine they first place the defence of the people, but the same criteria do not apply to the recognition of the Palestinian State. As to what has been brought here, to Mr Ventura's arguments — which, in the meantime, has gone out — I would reply that Argentina, the Vatican, Hungary, also recognised the State of Palestine. Mrs Rita Matias, who specializes in the subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u157	Mariana didn't show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u158	... perhaps you can explain to Mr André Ventura because these countries have recognized the State of Palestine. Ventura has a bad conscience in this debate, because he does not want to remember that the Arrival is the brother-party of the corrupt Likud, responsible for the death of hundreds of Palestinian Christians.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u159	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u160	Or by the babies who were in neonatal care in Gaza hospitals, to whom Israel turned off the catch. Perhaps the death of these babies does not affect both Mr. André Ventura and the death of other children. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I am moved by the death of any child and outraged by the violation of the rights of children, wherever they are. The Palestinians are, in fact, the only children in the world who are systematically processed by military courts. 6-year-olds are arrested, 12-year-olds are sentenced to 20 years in prison. The State of Israel, in military court, condemns 14-year-old children to life imprisonment;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u161	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u162	...or activists like Munther Amira, social worker of Aida Youth Camp, who was kidnapped on Sunday at his home, his brother was violently beaten up. He will be one of the 4000 prisoners in the West Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u163	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u164	I will finish, Mr. President. All we propose here has one goal: to save lives, to save innocent lives whose only fault is to have been born in a deadly trap called Gaza Strip. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u165	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u166	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is revolting is that the years are passing, the violations of international law by the State of Israel are happening—and it is not only international humanitarian law, we speak of illegality and crime, nothing less than that—and the PS and the parties on the right side of it continue to say that it is not yet the time to recognise the State of Palestine. Some may reactivate the rhetoric of self-proclaimed Western Civilization Defense Commands, or bring here, translated into Hebrew Portuguese, the discourses of the Israeli extreme right. But even if they do not enter this rhetoric, we have here the PS, with Mr. Paulo Pisco, who has come to the point of saying that what the 138 countries that have recognized the State of Palestine - have diplomatic relations, cooperation, solidarity with Palestine and with the Palestinian Authority - has done nothing. That's what the PS had to tell us. They speak of the ineffectiveness of those who have a voice to justify the complicity of those who shut up before the occupation. Mrs. Members, 1, 9 million people, in the vast majority of the population of Gaza, have been displaced. Information for hours — hours! — given by the United Nations : 19,400 Palestinians killed, 70 per cent of them women and children; 52 000 Palestinians injured; more than 1,000 children in Gaza lost both legs; of 36 hospitals, 24 completely destroyed; use of banned weapons, such as fragmentation bombs or white phosphorus. This is not without humanitarian concerns, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are war crimes. This is a proven practice of ethnic cleansing, already demonstrated in the reports of UN special envoys to the Middle East. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we reaffirm here the central issue in this debate: can the right of the peoples of Palestine and Israel to peace and security be achieved without a political solution and without the end of occupation? You can't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u168	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u169	I will finish, Mr. President. As for the assassinations of Palestinians in Hebron or Jenin — as you know, this is not in Gaza — by the occupying army, it is not the fight against Hamas that is at stake. The PS, side by side with the parties on the right, may continue to put the Portuguese State in the shameful position of follow-up in which it is placed, but will not put the Portuguese people, because the Portuguese people are making their voice heard in solidarity with the people of Palestine. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u170	To close the debate, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor. And to avoid saying that the Bureau is not generous, Mr Rui Tavares has 7 minutes and 37 seconds to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u171	No one deserves it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u172	It's not the Bureau, it's the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u173	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Dear Members of the Government : Regretting, however, that they have come to another debate on the agenda and that here, when we discussed, among other things, how to give everything to save Portuguese citizens as well, Luso-Israeli, Luso-Palestinian, has not been the Government to tell us that efforts are being made and we hope that they are many and urgent. in this debate much has been said about history. He spoke of Bible history, spoke of the Byzantine Empire, spoke of the line of Sykes-Picot and spoke of the Dreyfus case. I don't think I'm surprised to say I like history very much. It's my vocation, I dedicated my life to your study. I like history even when it's terrible and it doesn't stop being fascinating. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than you like history, we have to like living children. We must like children who will see their parents; that the hostage parents will be released; that they will not see, as in the poem of Refaat Alareer, which I read at first, the father disappears in an explosion. And, therefore, speaking of history cannot be an excuse to say that the problem is very complex. Of course, human existence is very complex, but there are things that are simple. It is not saying that the problem is very difficult. We have not been elected, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to talk about easy problems, we have been elected to discuss difficult problems. We were not elected to be at the coffee table saying: "Why do they not understand each other? When does that work? » We were elected to Portugal to have a voice, a political voice. [[P. Carla Sousa and Miguel Matos applauded.]] We have not been elected, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to say that in time the government will have to settle. Where is this proud Parliament, with parliamentary fame, capable of bringing a government into its control, capable of taking a political position and then the government will do its diplomacy, which is its role? That's why we were elected. We have not been elected, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to hear here just two months ago, it was necessary to condemn terrorism without ‘but’ — it is quite in fashion to say, ‘you cannot say ‘but’. Ladies and gentlemen, from the PS to the PSD, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival, to these parliamentary groups I have certainly heard many versions here « but» and « yet» and « however» and « however» and « not the time», which could use here the dictionary of synonyms. "We need a solution from the two states, but for now we only recognize one"; "Palestinian has to see its independence recognized, but it is not the time"; "without two states there is no peace, but we, who want peace and we want it now, will do nothing to recognize the two States now"; "Palestiny is not viable". But what we have said, proud defenders of the right to self-determination of East Timor, when they told us « Timor-Leste is not viable, is it far away, is it there at the bottom of the archipelago of Indonesia »? What will we say, then, when they tell us "we don't know if Palestine is viable, do we have two parts that are geographically discontinuous"? And Timor-Leste didn't have it? Is Oecussi-Ambeno not discontinuing from the rest of Timor-Leste? We have sometimes said 'it is not feasible, we will wait to discuss Timor-Leste's independence in 20 or 30 years, when there is no independence to discuss'? I have heard here that recognizing the independence of Palestine is to reward terrorists and fanatics. It's exactly the opposite! We all know that Hamas benefited because it made it difficult for the two States to solve. We all know that it was a mechanism used precisely for this debate if it did not. If we say « now is not the time» to recognize the State of Palestine, in which is the Palestinian Authority, the Organization of the Liberation of Palestine, of which Hamas is not part, of which are the Palestinian secular civil organizations, which Hamas has chacinated in Gaza, who will be the legitimate international representatives, how can it be said that this would be a prize to Hamas? Recognizing Palestine as an independent State, exercising its de facto authority in the West Bank, and acting in the Gaza Strip, until Hamas is removed from the Palestinian political scene and the Palestinian Authority can exercise its legitimate and internationally recognized authority, especially in Palestine, is the best response that the international community can give to those who want to prevent peace, to those who want to prevent the solution of the two States, to those who want to prevent the recognition of Palestine's independence. [[P. Carla Sousa and Miguel Matos applauded.]] So let's call things by names. Portugal must be a country that has a face-to-face in the world and which condemns a terrorist attack when it exists; it calls an organization of extreme-right religious fanatic, fascist, in practice, in Palestine, as Hamas is, of all this; it also says that when the Israeli Army commits war crimes they are war crimes, that these war crimes have war criminals and that war criminals have the place they have to be judged in the Hague Court. Portugal which we must be, the Assembly of the Republic we must be, must be consistent with itself and say in relation to Palestine what it said in relation to East Timor, as it says in relation to Western Sahara, as it says in relation to Ukraine. Portugal which we have to defend, which we have sworn to defend, has self-determination in its Constitution. Portugal, which we all say to defend, when we now discuss in the Possible Commission for Constitutional Review our Constitution, has to be an tireless Portugal in defending human rights and therefore cannot accept that human rights are a little less respected in one place and a little more in the other, cannot accept anything else but that they are universal and indivisible. Finally, Portugal we must want to be a decomplexed and fearless Portugal. The others come with us, have we achieved a unanimous position of the European Union? Well, that's good. Do others drag their feet or are they stuck on questions that also have their history, that I will excuse myself here detailing? Will we expect Germany to solve its history so that we can do what is right? Or should we acknowledge, respect the history that Germany has with itself and in its relations with Israel and, however, say that Portugal and other countries of the European Union have an obligation to remain consistent with its history, with what they have said about East Timor, with what they say about Western Sahara, with what they say about Ukraine? This is Portugal which in us voted to defend these principles, which are the constitutionally consecrated ones. I am very sorry that in this debate we have not heard the Government, because we know that if the principles of international law are in line with the principles of international law, the Government says that it defends the solution of the two States — and we would like to hear what preparation it is making for that solution — there is something insurmountable in individual rights, there are still lives at stake. There are lives which, depending on the granting of Portuguese nationality, can be saved. There are diplomatic efforts, together with, for example, a government like Qatar, which has made this diplomacy with Hamas itself, because it has a direct dialogue with it, and has achieved liberations from citizens who have dual nationality. I reaffirm, a Parliament that put Aristides Sousa Mendes in the Pantheon can only say one thing: this nationality must be recognized, acknowledge it to all who have rights, so that we can save lives. May we also save lives from all the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip, children, who also have the right to see their parents, like the Israelites. We believe that these children, on the one hand and on the other, will be able to do what we, in Europe, can at least say that we have some experience to do; after heinous massacres between brothers, we know how to make reconciliation and peace, which will take time, but which will come from the moment we take the necessary and urgent steps. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u174	Look, you've got a parliamentary group already, you're not bad anymore! [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u175	So we move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos 982 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Adjusts the rules for determining the tax result, based on IRC, 990 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter to Law No 22 -A / 2007 of 29 June, correcting the allocation of revenue from the single circulation tax, in particular from the part of these revenues that by law belongs to the municipalities, and 993 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Creates tax incentives for companies to promote the cycling mobility of their workers by amending the IRC Code. To present the PS bill, Mr. Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : On 3 October last, he entered the Assembly of the Republic's Bill No 108 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ), which intended to adapt the rules for determining the tax result within IRC ( income tax for legal persons ), integrating the changes produced by the international financial reporting standards known as IFRS 17. It happens that the period of budgetary debate, which took most of the months of October and November, has interrupted the remaining legislative processes, as always happens and as everyone knows, and at this time the political circumstance of having a management government determines the need to convert the bill into draft law, due to the importance of adapting the tax legislation in the case of IRC, and also to respond to the request of the Portuguese Insurance Association. This association sent a letter to the Committee on Budget and Finance last October 18 alerting the urgency of the adoption and publication of this legislation. These are companies subject to the supervision of the Insurance Supervision Authority and Pension Funds ( ASF ), companies for which specific accounting plans are planned, such as the Account Plan for Insurance Companies. This is a process of convergence with the international accounting standards that has taken place since 2008 and will now be complete. Essentially, it amends Article 50. that of the IRC Code, as regards the definition of taxable profit and the integration of other elements into their training, and creates a transitional regime for adapting to the new rules for determining taxable profit. StandardIFRS 17, referred to above, provides for the entry into force of the first financial year following 1 January 2023. In Portugal, as it is known, the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year, and from here the need for this schedule is inferred. It is only to adapt the IRC Code to best practices and international recommendations for the insurance sector. The representative association of companies in the sector also calls for such approval and thus appears to be a matter free of controversy, and I am therefore sure that it will be approved with the favourable vote of all banks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u177	To present the PSD initiative, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate that we are conducting evidence that we are even at the end of the cycle. And we are at the end of the cycle, Mr. President, because the jokes happen on the bench of the Socialist Party. They tell us about the transposition of a directive that is fundamental to the homeland, but for months, they haven't even remembered that it existed. The dissolution was necessary to quickly realize that it was even important to approve it. As the initiative of the Government fell, the Socialist Party had to re-enter and present. And the question is, why have you been waiting so long? If the President of the Republic had not promoted the dissolution of Parliament, would he not even discuss this? It seems that only because of that act is that we are finally having this debate. [[PSD applause.]] By now, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask this direct question: are you aware of the doubts about the constitutionality of having this rule retroactively come into force on 1 January 2023? Are you aware of these doubts that exist and that should be clarified? Mr. President, as a joke never comes only from the Socialist Party's bench, we have a second trick,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u179	... which also shows the very proper way to operate this bench: « We have an absolute majority, the proposal comes from the opposition, our vote is against. The content does not matter, which is not relevant there; just see a symbol of an opposition party for our vote to be against. Do not keep on seeking. ” That was the case in the budget. When the PSD presented the proposal to delete all the article of the IUC (the single circulation tax ), the Socialist Party, how did it vote? Against. Next, he discovered that, with this attitude, what was left of the IUC article took money away from the municipalities. That's the truth. So you have to reverse this mistake, but you have no courage to take it. First attempt: let's solve this in final writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u180	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u181	What we know is that in final writing — and Mr President, who is the first to guarantee compliance with the Rules of Procedure, is the first thing I would never accept — a vote that took place in plenary cannot be reversed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u182	Looks like it's the first time! Oh, Duarte, you have so much experience!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u183	So that could never happen. Sometimes I even wonder if the Socialist Party deserves a responsible opposition, as the PSD does.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u184	Yeah, yeah! And the Enough, the Liberal Initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u185	The PSD said, at that time: « We are available to find a solution. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u186	They must be available in final writing, and it doesn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u187	We are available so that between a legislative initiative that reverses all that article of the IUC, it can cause the mistake you made not to sacrifice the municipalities; we are available for this schedule to be made in a fast and expeditious manner; we are available for it to happen without discussion; we are available for the three votes to happen; we are available to solve the problem. What does the Socialist Party say about this? No, no, no. Why? Because it comes from the opposition and they are never available to find solutions, from the height of your absolute majority. Then there is what we can call the Kinder egg : in a proposal in which we are discussing IRC for insurance companies, you put an amendment that aims to change the IUC. Why not make a change to talk about the replacement of zero VAT (value added tax) for the food cabaz, since we are talking about a tax standard and everything is up to you? It is that the similarity of the object between the IRC and the IUC is very vague, but from the moment they open this door we can enter with all the changes to the Portuguese tax system! Well, that only proves your predisposition to try to solve things by force, of suspicion, using the force of the absolute majority. Bullshit happens, but they will end very soon, on March 10. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u188	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the analysis of the draft law in question does not raise great questions to us, the inexplicable persistence of successive governments in maintaining a high IRC rate is a matter of greater importance, with the high tax burden on Portuguese businesses and families — in particular, in the case of families, the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) — a major concern of the Party. But Portugal is now debating a serious problem of productivity in companies. This implies that they clearly need economies of scale. In Portugal we have a number of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and we have very few large companies, few companies with an international scale. But if we look at IRC, there is a clear disincentive to the acquisition of scale, to the merger of companies, because companies pay a higher rate of IRC if they have higher results. In short, our tax system penalises those who achieve higher results and, on the other hand, discourages the acquisition of scale. But it was internationally agreed at the initiative of the President of the United States of America, Joe Biden, a minimum IRC rate of 15%. We have no doubt that, sooner or later, countries will converge in this direction. In the future, there will be hardly any countries that will be competitive at rates away from this benchmark. We are more than double and the successive socialist governments do not even play on the basis of taxation or spills. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems, therefore, that there is a widespread forgetfulness on the part of successive socialist and social democratic governments that are the companies that employ people and generate wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u190	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u191	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, every year that successive governments refuse to release our companies from the brutal and complex tax burden they are subject to is another year lost for them to grow, gain scale and be competitive. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u192	And Mariana isn't coming today? It's been four days since he didn't show up! Are you drinking coffee? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u193	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fiscal justice today must certainly be synonymous with not only social but also environmental justice. There is no fight against climate change if we do not reduce emissions in the mobility and transport sector and without reducing dependence on fossil fuels, which results in tax incentives for this same objective. One of the ways to achieve these goals passes through the bet on the transition to cycling mobility, which may mean a reduction of emissions of 3, 2 kg CO2 per day and per person. If the path seems to be obvious, policies have not had the ambition needed to achieve it so far. Over the last 10 years, the modal share of bicycle travel in the country was only 0, 5 %, and the government just wanted to give EUR 1 million next year to promote cycling and pedestrian mobility. In terms of human resources, we know that it is far from what has been claimed. This is clearly low, because if we look, for example, at countries such as Ireland, we see that, despite having half the population of Portugal, he invests this money every day and not every year. It has been by the hand of the NAP, however, that in recent years a number of benefits and incentives for cycling mobility have emerged, such as the fall in bicycle VAT or even in children's chairs from 23 % to 6 %. There was also the creation of support for the acquisition of bicycles under the Environmental Fund or the inclusion of access to shared bicycle systems within free spaces. These were very important victories to have soft mobility and to encourage a more active lifestyle. But it is necessary to go further and that is what the NAP wants to achieve in this debate, proposing an amendment to the IRC Code which aims to create a deduction of 150 % for the costs of companies with the acquisition of passes for the use of shared bicycle systems and bicycles for their workers. Adopt this NAP proposal, more than a serious contribution to reducing emissions, is a way of giving businesses an impetus to implement their sustainable mobility plans, which the Government has foreseen in the Energy Savings Plan 2022 - 2023, but never implemented. To approve this proposal is still a guarantee of justice, since the IRC Code cannot only create incentives for the use of public transport, nor should it continue to give tax bills to those who are the most polluters and the most benefits, but it must create benefits that help workers who prefer cycling mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u195	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u196	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This bill is another one of those transmutations of bills that, however, had to be transformed into bills. in this particular case, this is the Bill No 108 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ). If it were just the transposition or transmutation of this bill, there wouldn't be much to say. It's late, but that's a PS custom, I didn't really care about it, even though it comes in time. Basically, what is this initiative doing? It is adapting the IRC Code so that the changes already introduced in the Account Plan for Insurance Companies from the beginning of this year could have an impact on the IRC Code exactly. Not having done this is a sign of the complexity of our system. We have to wait for the last day of the year, practically, to correct something that should have been corrected in good rigour since 1 January, because it was obvious. by not correcting this, it increases the difference between the result that is subject to taxes and the accounting result that companies present. It is very complex our system and this is a sign of it. The other sign of complexity comes from the part that no longer has to do with Bill No 108 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ) ; it is the part where the PS felt the need to make that graft of the IUC. And why did the PS make the IUC graft? Because I needed to fix a ashtray. It was an assailant who did not want to recognise — the case has already been explained here — and it has identified these two attempts to amend the IUC Code by means of this diploma. So what did you do? The PS, which was going to increase the IUC on grounds of social justice, resolved, for reasons that they could not stop being electoralists, to go back to the increase in the IUC on why? Social justice too! It's good for both. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] What's going on? It turns out you forgot to remove the rest of the article. Better, he forgot to vote in favour of two proposals that he had to take the rest of the article, one of the PSD and one of the Liberal Initiative. Forget it! It is such a degree of incompetence, which is further evidence that, despite everything, the PS is much better at raising taxes than reducing them or, in this case, even keeping them in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u197	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u198	Now, all of this — which I say in passing, because it is good for you to be registered — is a lesson, because we are facing a process of harmonisation of a series of tax criteria and procedures throughout Europe. This one, of the accounting rules, is another one. Last week, we discussed an important one here, that of SMEs, who are able to declare, settle and pay taxes at a location of their headquarters; if this place is no more complex, if it is no more expensive, they certainly leave the place where they are at the moment, and Portugal is not very well positioned in these rankings. We've always said—we've been on this for years! — that our taxes do not just need to be lower, as they need to be simpler. Otherwise, this will happen: when the harmonisation of these criteria and procedures is generalized, our complexity and our burden will become more obvious to all. It will be wrong to Portugal and, therefore, we should have begun this effort of dishonoring and simplification longer, but it will certainly not be due to the lack of notice of the Liberal Initiative. Let's start now from March 10th. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u199	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The draft law under review adjusts the IRC Code to changes in the insurance sector's account plans resulting from the implementation of international financial reporting standards such as IFRS 17. With regard to IFRS 17, it is a rule that has profoundly changed the way insurers account for the provision of contractual risks and thereby their profits and losses. It is a standard that improves the capacity of the State and any investors to know and compare internationally the results and financial strength of insurers. Having said that, we cannot fail to point out two aspects: firstly, the application of this standard in a blind manner, without taking into account the specificities of small insurers and cooperative carers. Insurance mutuals — although there is only one — in Portugal’s cooperative charities they have no vocation to be even quoted or considered to be bought by investors and therefore the application of this rule is too demanding for these small entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u201	Sure! Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u202	The principle of proportionality should have been considered to avoid costs for mutual and small insurers, which in practice means deepening the sector's concentration path, with profound negative impacts also for consumers, more exposed to oligopolistic power and direct or indirect forms of cartelization. Secondly, IFRS 17 does not solve the problems of complexity or lack of transparency, nor does it essentially solve the conflict between private interest and collective interest. In the IRC Code, tax benefits, exemptions, subterfuges benefiting the large economic groups and in particular the financial sector are not lacking. Large insurers, alongside the bank, have increased their profits at the cost of family sacrifices. In the most severe period of the pandemic, the insurers did not lower the insurance premiums paid by consumers, but had much less expenditure due to the cessation of economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u203	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u204	They have had extraordinary profits in this period and now. The CFP has proposed measures to tax these profits and, to date, both the government and the regulator, the ASF continue to ignore the disproportionate amount of profits obtained during that period, profits that continue to increase for other reasons, once again to the detriment of the vast majority of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u206	This initiative adjusts IRC to an accounting standard, but does not address this greater problem: the profound tax injustice of which insurers and, in general, the financial sector are the main beneficiaries, while the majority of tax revenue continues to fall on labour, on lower incomes and intermediates, on the consumption of essential goods, on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. on the vast majority of the population, who do not accept that this tax injustice continues. With regard to other initiatives under consideration, with regard to the NAP initiative, we cannot agree with the extension of an additional tax benefit for companies, which also applies to large companies ; and, with regard to the amendment of the IUC, as we voted against the proposal which has ended up in the Budget and which harms the municipalities, we will vote in favour of the amendments correcting this abscess that was left in the final version of the Budget, but which does not make any sense, ending with prejudice to the revenue of the municipalities. We will therefore follow the initiatives to address this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u207	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u208	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This debate is another example of a nightmare that afflicts accountants. What they fear most is that, at the end of a calendar year, which is also a fiscal year, they change the rules of the current year, forcing everyone to revisit their accounts. in this particular case, this is about the insurance sector, but we understand: in the insurance sector there are raw fish and small fish! The fat fish can even have large accounting offices and this is absolutely irrelevant, but the small insurers, these, will have more difficulty answering. So what are you paying for? They are paying for the laxism of the Government in failing to legislate when it should have transposed this directive, which is now being grasped by the Socialist Party, as we are in a pre-dissolution period of the Assembly of the Republic and a government in management. But these responsibilities exist and, for the sake of the debate, they must be fully announced, so that people will also know how to prepare for the next 10 March. As far as the initiative is concerned, it is an obligation to update accounting standards, and there is nothing to point out to you that it is not this shortness of time for its application. With regard to the other two initiatives — and not to repeat arguments, because it seems to me that they are already more than cheated at the moment — the PSD proposal for the IUC reveals the replacement of what was previously in the distribution of this tax and that it was only stirred because someone in the Ministry of Finance had the brilliant idea of thinking that it was the poor who should demand the payment of the energy transition, see there! A miraculous idea that was quickly put in the drawer, and still well, because it hurt the bad name of the PS, but it was very bad at the energy transition, which is necessary. It was a bad service that the PS gave to this goal. As far as the NAP proposal is concerned, we understand that it is basically consistent with the set of tax exemptions that currently exist in the country. Although we do not think they are brilliant, there is some coherence here that needs to be emphasized and on behalf of that we shall vote in favour of this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u209	You now have the floor to speak, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Nuno Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal on the application of a transitional standard, within IRC, to the insurance sector comes to the path of the tradition in Portugal, when we have significant changes in account plans, at the level of accounting references, to phase out its application in tax matters. This same principle was followed during the application of the accounting standardisation system and was also followed, specifically within the insurance sector, during the previous account plan for the sector. in this area, having been raised doubts as to the timing of the submission of this proposal, whether or not it would have been followed by the announcement of the resignation of the Government, it is important to bear in mind the facts, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The proposal entered this House on 3 October, at the culmination of an internal legislative circuit of the Government, and I believe that on 3 October, we were still working on the normal functioning of the institutions. This proposal entered this House on 3 October, at the culmination of what was an internal legislative process of the Government. The previous diplomas in this field, and I am speaking specifically in the case of the insurance sector, during the previous plan of accounts, were also approved in the month of December of the year in which these same amendments took effect. from the constitutional point of view, our Constitutional Court has been establishing a very clear distinction between the concept of retroactivity and the concept of retrospectivity, and in this case the tax case is considered to have occurred on 31 December, therefore the legislation that applies in this area is that which is in force at the end of this year. Therefore, when the alleged nightmare for accountants is invoked here, it is also important to be aware that these are profound changes from an accounting point of view and are also accounting changes that result from an international accounting standard—in fact, in this case two standards, IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 — with which accountants are working in this area. from a fiscal point of view, what we have is that, rather than being in an immediate way, in a single year, the translation of these accounting changes into the tax result is phased over a longer period. It is therefore to ensure the necessary predictability for both industry operators and the State itself, avoiding that mere accounting changes that do not result in a favorable or unfavorable evolution of the activity of these economic operators have a significant tax impact either in order to pay more or less, because these international accounting standards will have a very different impact on different players in the sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus once again fulfilling what has been the commitment to companies and to the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u211	Mr. Secretary of State has a request for clarification. Mr Filipe Melo has the floor to make it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u212	Mr. President of a few benches, Mr. Members, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, the main issue that I would like to put concerns the following: these companies have only obligations. They only have obligations! To the state, they only have obligations. I do not know whether the Secretary of State knows or does not know this issue. We understand that there is this accounting uniformization, this standardization, but insurers are not only large companies, they have intermediaries. Banks also have credit intermediaries, and they are those smaller ones who suffer daily.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u213	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u214	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u215	These were the ones who, during the time of the vault, had to close the doors and keep paying the employees. And these were also — the insurers — who extended the deadline, extended the deadline for payment of the policies. Did you know that? It was important to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u217	Did you also know that these are the companies that your government prevents you from competing with European funds, funding lines? And why? Oh, my God! They are companies that serve to pay, they serve to support the state machine, but when it is time to compete, they cannot. Don't you have any employees? They have. You don't pay rent? Pay for it. You don't pay for light, water, gas, communications? Pay for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u219	They only have duties, they only have obligations to the State. When it is time to keep their jobs, when it is time to continue to produce and prosper, the State, and in this case the socialist government, cuts their legs. Is this what fiscal justice is? This is what companies in our country, which have the second highest tax burden of OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), are subject to? Did you know that after Colombia, we have the highest tax burden, the most unjust and complex tax system in the OECD? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Did you know that? You know for sure. It is the most complex tax system in OECD, and this is what our entrepreneurs have to live with. You know how many thousands — thousands! — insurance brokers and credit intermediaries in the country? Thousands! And they are people who have their small businesses, who support families with this money, who support families with that business they have.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u220	Look at the weather! Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u221	Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, before putting this into question, think of the thousands of families that live and survive this type of business. They're not the big brands, they're the small intermediaries. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u222	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u223	Mr President, Mr Member, Portugal was not only one of the Member States that supported families and businesses the most in the context of the pandemic, and - see simplified lay-off,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u225	... and we are not only one of the Member States that, in the context of the energy crisis and the inflationary peak that followed it, had a wider set of support, as well as international figures do not support its completion at the level of the tax burden. Portugal has no higher tax burden than the European Union average or higher than the euro area average. In fact, if we look at the tax effort of families, the OECD wedge tax in 2022 is lower than it was in 2015. If we look at OECD studies on what is the effective corporate taxation, we see that, according to OECD, the effective rate in Portugal is 17, 1 %, while in neighbouring Spain, it is 21, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u226	He is a socialist, the government in Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u227	Why, sir? Because we have a set of tax benefits that are geared towards promoting investment, promoting job creation, promoting innovation and development, giving added value to our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u228	Tax billboards for large economic groups!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u229	But, Mr, if you do not like the OECD numbers, you can look at those of the European Commission. The European Commission, when analysing the average effective IRC rate of companies, says that in 2022, in Portugal, it is 21 % ; in neighbouring Spain, it is 29 %. More than this number, we have the trajectory. Mr Deputy, in 2015, was 27 % and is now 21 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u230	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u231	But I can go on,
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u232	You can answer the question. Objectively answer the question about these companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u233	... we can also look at those who are the European Commission's studies on labour taxation, according to which the implicit rate in Portugal is 30 % compared to 36 % in neighbouring Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u234	Mr. Secretary of State has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u235	I will conclude, Mr President, by recalling that over the last few years this House, on a proposal from the Government, has approved a very significant set of measures to bring down the IRS of Portuguese families over EUR 4 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u236	We're talking business. He didn't answer anything! He can't answer! You better say you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u237	With no further requests for intervention, we are closing the debate and the Bureau needs to know who closes the Socialist Party, which is the proposing party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u238	It's Pedro Nuno Santos!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u239	Mr. Carlos Brás, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u240	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : With this debate, there is a conclusion that we can draw and that is obvious. It is that there is an immense confusion of tax concepts, in a cross-sectional way, by the benches. First of all, it should be made clear to the PSD that IRC is an annual tax and, therefore, we are within the fiscal year. Any change has repercussions for the whole year, not only for the remainder until the end of the year. That is the difference between an annual tax and a non-annual tax. I would also like to say, on this subject, and as the Secretary of State has already pointed out, that a bill was introduced on 3 October, which would be perfectly in a position to be voted on in this House if there were not to be the phenomenon of dissolution. Then, in a cross-cutting way, also for all banks, the importance of updating the IRC and the transposition of this directive also has to do with not only simplification but also with a principle that is very expensive to all Members, which is the principle of fiscal harmonisation within the European Union. Therefore, this is about continuing a process of fiscal harmonisation, which in this particular case was initiated in 2008. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u241	We therefore close the second item on the agenda and we will proceed to the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u242	The PS left 4 minutes to use!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u243	I would ask the services which open the quorum verification period and the Members. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] They've all made it. I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. Mr. André Ventura, do you ask for the floor? Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u244	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u245	Manually registered. Mr Rui Tavares asks for the same floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u246	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u247	I ask the services to add two more to the quorum. We have quorum, we can proceed to the vote. We are in a position to vote. Mr. Hugo Carneiro, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to raise a question about the script here. We had several versions of the script throughout the afternoon, and this Socialist Party project that just got discussed, Bill No. 982 / XV / 2. a ( PS ), is in an agenda in which it has two drags, one from the PSD and the other from the PAN, and the one from the PSD touches deeply with other proposals that should be appreciated in the specialty. Our understanding is that the generality should first be done and therefore the PS bill, the PSD bill and the PAN bill should be voted on, and we will only then do the speciality. An agreement was reached on this issue in the Conference of Leaders, given the urgency of the transposition of rules on the insurance sector, and it was with regard to these rules that we agreed that the three votes should be taken today, but of course not prejudiced the precedence of the votes that should be taken, in particular, the generality and then the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u249	Sir, thank you very much. I myself would make this proposal, because it seems logical that the draft laws which are at issue are generally voted upon and which have now been appreciated. Then, for those who move on to the specialty, we will vote in the specialty and in the overall final vote. I believe that this interpretation does not deserve the disagreement of any parliamentary group and, therefore, we will do so. We shall then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 943 / XV / 2. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government progress towards the recognition of the independence of Palestine. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions of the IL and the CFP.]] Having been approved, down to 2. the Commission. Mrs. Susana Amador, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u250	To indicate that we are going to make a statement of vote in writing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u251	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote is followed by draft resolution No 944 / XV / 2. a (L) — Against the escalation of war in Israel and Palestine: urgent recommendations to the Government in the defence of cease-fire, humanitarian aid and the release of hostages. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] The draft resolution falls to 2. the Commission. We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 946 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting integration into national educational institutions of students, researchers and teachers from higher education institutions in Israel, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of IL, the PCP, BE, PAN, L and 13 PS (Ana Isabel Santos, André Pinotes Batista, Carla Sousa, Eduardo Alves, Ivan Gonçalves, Jamila Madeira, Maria Begonha, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio, Sobrinho Teixeira, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues and Tiago Soares Monteiro) and abstentions of PS, PSD and CH.]] Having been approved, down to 2. the Commission. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 950 / XV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PS, PS, CH and IL, votes in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN, L and 15 PS (Alexandra Leitão, André Pinotes Batista, Barbara Dias, Carla Sousa, Diogo Cunha, Diogo Leone, Eduardo Alves, Jamila Madeira, Maria Begonha, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio, Susana Barroso, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues and Tiago Soares Monteiro) and abstentions of 5 PS (Ana Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Paulo Rebelo, Luís Graça and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro).]] The general vote on draft resolution No 957 / XV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government start all diplomatic efforts to defend the establishment of the State of Palestine, alongside the existence of the State of Israel, side by side, to live in peace and security, as provided for in the United Nations Sharing Plan of 1947. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] Having been approved, down to 2. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 961 / XV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government recognise the State of Palestine. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PS, PS, CH and IL, votes in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN, L and 25 PS (Alexandra Leitão, Ana Isabel Santos, André Pinotes Batista, Barbara Dias, Carla Sousa, Clariste Campos, Cláudia Santos, Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Ivan Gonçalves, Jamila Madeira, Joana Sá Pereira, João Paulo Rebello, José Carlos Barbosa, José Pedro Ferreira, Luís Graça, Maria Begonha, Miguel Costa Matos, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Anastácio, Romualda Nunes Fernandes, Susana Barroso, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues and Tiago Soares Monteiro) and the abstention of the Deputy of the PS Rosário Gambôa.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 964 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Boycott and sanctions to Israel by the end of the genocide in Gaza. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by 10 PS Members (Ana Isabel Santos, André Pinotes Batista, Barbara Dias, Carla Sousa, Ivan Gonçalves, Jamila Madeira, Miguel Costa Matos, Rosário Gambôa, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and Tiago Brandão Rodrigues).]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 966 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — At the immediate end of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and for lasting peace, with the implementation of the solution of the two States in accordance with the United Nations Sharing Plan of 1947. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD and the CH.]] The draft resolution falls to 2. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 982 / XV / 2. a ( PS ) — Adjusts the rules for determining the tax result within IRC. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of PS, IL and L and with abstentions from PSD, CH, PCP, BE and PAN.]] We shall proceed to the vote on this same bill, in the specialty, immediately. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 990 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter to Law No 22 -A / 2007 of 29 June, correcting the allocation of revenue from the single circulation tax, in particular from the part of these revenues which by law belongs to municipalities. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mr. Hugo Carneiro asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u252	Mr President, just to announce that I will present on behalf of the PSD an oral vote on this vote that we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u253	All right. What makes sense is that the oral vote is at the end of the vote, if the PSD has no objection. We shall then, in general, vote on Bill No. 993 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Creates tax incentives for companies to promote the cycling mobility of their workers by amending the IRC Code. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP and votes against the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PS, in particular on Article 5. o -A to Bill No. 982 / XV / 2. a. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] It is as follows: Article 5. o -The Amendment to Law No 22 -A / 2007 of 29 June Article 3. the Law No 22 -A / 2007 of 29 June is replaced by the following: « Article 3. the [... ] 1 — It is the title of the municipality of residence of the taxable person or equivalent to the revenue generated by the IUC incident on vehicles of category A, E, F and G, as well as 70 % of the component relating to the cylinder accident on vehicles of category B, unless that revenue is an incident on vehicles subject to long-term rental or operational rental, if it is to be assigned to the municipality of residence of the respective user. 2 — [...]. 3 — The revenue generated by the IUC component relating to the level of emission of carbon dioxide incident on category B vehicles and 30 % of the component relating to the cylindrical incident on the same vehicles shall be the holder of: (a) [...; (b) [...]. 4 — [...]. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u254	We now proceed to the special vote on the PS proposal to replace Article 7. the draft Law No 982 / XV / 2. a. I am informed that there is a request by the PSD, which is consensual, requesting a separate vote of the two numbers of this amendment proposal. So let's start by voting paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L.]] It is as follows: 1 — This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication and shall take effect on 1 January 2023, with the exception of the following paragraph.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u255	We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 2. [[The vote was taken with the vote on PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] It is as follows: 2 — Article 5. the -A of this law comes into force on 1 January 2024, considering that the same provisions adopted earlier in the legislative process of the State budget for 2024, irrespective of their entry into force.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u256	We now proceed to the vote, also in the specialty, of the remaining rules of Bill No 982 / XV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the IL and abstentions of the PSD, the CH, the CCP, the BE, the NAP and the L were adopted.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No 982 / XV / 2. a. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, IL and L and with abstentions to CH, CCP, BE and NAP.]] Mrs. Susana Amador asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u257	Mr President, it is to request the waiver of the complaint and the deadline for final drafting of this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u258	I wonder if there's any objection to a bench. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, it is granted either the final drafting waiver or the time-limit exemption for complaints. We will now listen to the PSD oral vote statement by Mr Hugo Carneiro. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because we make our vote statement on the votes we have seen from Bills Nos 982 / XV / 2. a e 990 / XV / 2. What's the matter? In the context of the State budget, as explained here during the debate, the PSD and the Liberal Initiative presented separate proposals to correct this mess of the Socialist Party which aimed to withdraw some EUR 40 million from the municipalities in relation to the distribution of IUC funds. How did the Socialist Party vote? Against. Why did you vote against? Because the proposals came from the opposition. In the final writing, as has already been explained here, they have tried, of course, to put in place an integral elimination of the article that spoke about this distribution, after they have perceived the error they have made. In final writing, it would be illegal, if Members had authorized such an amendment, because in final writing we would be against the will of the legislator who, in plenary, had said twice, expressly, that it was against the deletion of this article. Then, at the end of writing, we presented a solution: we are going to make a bill, and the PSD is available to dispense the debate—so we would make an agenda, if it were consensual, timeless— and to make the three votes simultaneously. What did the Socialist Party do, despite the e-mail going to all parliamentary groups? None of that. Now, the PSD had already done its homework to amend this situation last week, with the presentation of a draft law, which we asked for for for this debate—as the PS extended, beyond what was consensual in the Conference of Leaders, the subject of the debate itself, including in this IUC rule—but after we did this drag, even before the vote on the PS proposals, what have we verified? The PS voted against the PSD proposal to correct this IUC standard, which shows that the PS, using its compressor roll, votes against everything that comes from the opposition. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would just like to explain why we abstained in the transposition of rules on IRC, but then we voted in favour of the final version of Bill No 982 / XV / 2. What's the matter? Because, for us, it was essential to solve the problem of municipalities and therefore we voted in favour of this diploma. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u260	In the meantime, it was also written for an oral vote on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Cabrita, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate on the single circulation tax was clear and was a debate on a new component of the IUC, at the head of the State budget, which fell. It also fell on the initiative of the PS Parliamentary Group. Now, having the object of the debate fallen, all its components would fall and, in fact, only by a conjugation of votes did not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u262	Great can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u263	That is what we have tried to resolve and clarify in the final drafting of the State budget. It must be said that all parliamentary groups, with the exception of one, that of the PPD / PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u264	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u265	PS bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u266	... were available to clarify and solve something that was clear as water for this whole Hemicycle. Basically, what the PSD wanted to do, after it had not wanted to solve where, by consensus, this situation could be solved, was to come here today to solve a problem that it itself did not resolve at the headquarters where it could have done so, creating a non-existent political fact. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to do so, it has created a new legislative initiative when it was not necessary. We had here a legislative initiative which, without the need to create a new autonomous legislative process, would solve this problem. That is what we announced we were going to do in the Commission and we did. The problem is solved and the most important one is assured, which is that municipalities will not be harmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u268	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u269	Pick up, pick up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u270	Because in just one and a half years of government, little more than that, in just three State budgets, this majority approved more proposals to amend the opposition than the right majority approved during four years of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, do not collect, and this will also be a mark of this majority, the majority of dialogue and which approves opposition proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u271	In the meantime, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo entered an oral vote. You have the word to do it on behalf of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u272	Mr President, it is a statement of vote on an approval which we have made, because we also believe that the last ones to be harmed by this trick are actually the municipalities. I would like to tell you with all the friendship, Mr Cabrita, that, of all the words I have said, two are missing — not two — there are four —: the PS has been wrong. There were two votes in which you were wrong. I had said that in the Commission, I had said this here, and I was ashamed to have called on you to draw attention to the fact that you have failed to say: 'We have been wrong to vote on the Budget, and that has given rise to this enormous confusion'. That's all. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u273	Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha now has the floor to provide information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u274	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to be aware that our colleague Miguel Iglesias attended this session by videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-12-19.u275	This concludes the session. The next plenary meeting will be tomorrow afternoon for 3 p.m. of the first point is the fixing of the agenda required by the CFP, in which the Drafts of Law Nos 964 / XV / 2 will be discussed. a ( PCP ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker ( twentieth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 965 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the expiry regime of collective bargaining, 968 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime and 969 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( 20th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and the 10th amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Labour Law in Public Functions ). The second point is that we will have a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Good night, and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 38 minutes.]]
