ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I would also like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and the ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. We have quorum, we can start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. We begin with the first item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No 657 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of codes of conduct and an independent structure of support for the victim and complaint in the event of harassment in higher education institutions and, in general, of the Bills Nos 743 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the legal type of crime of sexual harassment and qualified sexual harassment, reinforcing the legal protection of victims, 36 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents the crime of sexual harassment by making the fifty-sixth amendment to the Penal Code and the twentieth amendment to the Labour Code, 778 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures compliance with the Istanbul Convention by strengthening the protection of victims in the event of sexual harassment and 781 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates the Psychological Support Responses for Victims of Sexual Assets and Violence in Higher Education and extends the scope of the Codes of Good Conduct for Prevention and Combating Assets to All Members of the Academic Community, together with the discussion of the Resolution Project No 686 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government create strategies to deduce situations of moral and sexual harassment in higher education. To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block proposes a bill to this House to create the crime of sexual harassment. Whenever there is a scandal over cases of harassment in the academy — and they have not been few — indignation is general. However, complaints are few and convictions are even less. Whenever there is a controversy, a scandal, about cases of harassment in the academy—and they have not been few—, the cry for justice is the general cry. But the crime of harassment does not exist in the Criminal Code. That is what we propose: that he be there. There are three or four arguments against the introduction of this crime into the Criminal Code. The first argument is that it is already planned. There are several crimes in the Criminal Code against sexual freedom and self-determination, including importunation, sexual coercion and rape. The harassment can result in either of these three — harassment, coercion, rape — and, in this case, it will also be judged under these crimes. But harassment is not just what is included in the crime of sexual harassment. This is what Prof. Inês Ferreira Leite today says to the public, when she explains that the crime of sexual harassment, being thought of for individual harassment in street contact, is not suitable for situations of harassment in the institutional context. I remember that the crime of sexual harassment, for example, includes proposals of a sexual nature, but not comments, and therefore what defines whether it is a crime or not is the existence of a question point at the end of the comment, which makes it a proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u3	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u4	As for the institutional context, I recall that today or yesterday, a study that says that one third of students at Évora University were already victims of sexual or moral harassment and that the Association of the Portuguese Judges' Union itself did a study that revealed a large number of judges and, above all, judges who indicated that they were victims of harassment by colleagues with authority and that they did not report this harassment, for fear, for shame and for the absence of channels of denunciation. The Left Block believes that the cases of harassment are particularly serious in the context of functional dependence, but not only. They are also serious in the context of hierarchy, and this hierarchy does not only have to do with a hierarchy at work and with a hierarchical dependence of a hierarchical superior, it also has to do with other types of hierarchy, namely that which exists in the academy, which has to do with the descent or the power of a certain person, even if there is no hierarchical subjection, indeed, as all cases have been reported. We understand that these cases are particularly serious and that they are cases where the victim feels more difficult to report and, therefore, we opened the door to which they could be a public crime. We believe that this should not be an obstacle to the creation of the crime of harassment and we are very available to discuss this matter in the field of expertise. The third argument is that there is excessive criminal intervention. The Supreme Council of the Magistracy states: "There can never be criminalized acts of unwanted harassment that do not exceed rudeness or ill-education. This argument, really, takes me seriously. To think that a woman goes to the station not knowing how to distinguish between bad education and harassment is offensive and is perpetuating an idea of submission of women, which, as the Portuguese Association of Women Jurists says, part of a prejudice that is what women lie about. Women lie and, therefore, we cannot extend the crime, because we run the risk of women going to the police station to lie. And I ask, what woman is she going to a squad to complain about innocent behavior? Or is this idea of rudeness and bad education a way of normalizing and apologizing contacts of sexual content and sexual harassment? How many women have already been moved to complain of harassment with the following argument: 'It is not worth it, it is only mal-educational, it is a generational issue'? These are ways of normalizing the harassment we cannot admit. The fourth argument is that they are indeterminate concepts of difficult typification. And here I remember that injury is not a more determined concept than the concept of harassment. On address offensive words to someone's honor or consideration, a court, when he receives a complaint for injury, does not have a catalogue of offensive words. Of course, the charge of an injury crime will depend on the offender if he feels insulted and the court's assessment. Obviously, proof will be formulated and the courts will be able to conclude, or not, that it is a crime of injury. It therefore seems to us that the arguments which are intended to refuse the creation of a crime of harassment are removed. It is proven its need, for a question of social reality. The second project we bring here is a draft resolution to create channels of complaint in the academy. I think we all know why and why they are so necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u5	It would now be the turn of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to present Bill No. 36 / XV / 1. the Council shall, at the request of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Mr Rui Tavares, inform the House that their absence is not due to a lack of interest in the schedules that have been made, but because they are attending the Congress of European Greens, which is taking place in Vienna. Therefore, this is the reason for your absence and that is why you are not present to present your bills. Therefore, I give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias to present Bill No. 778 / XV / 1. a ( CH).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin this debate by mentioning common indicators. A survey of APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ) conducted in January 2022 tells us that 18 % of the sample already claims to have been sexually harassed at least once at their workplace. It also tells us that victims are mostly women and that 55% of cases were caused by hierarchical superiors. But I think that perhaps these are the only common points we have in this debate. It is because there are those who today schedule this debate to wash their faces after the overwhelming silence, in the face of complaints of sexual abuse in a university context, particularly in Coimbra, this silence because the complaints aimed at their intellectual guru, who was, without less, one of the first supporters of the candidacy of the new Bloc Coordinator. There are also those who come to the debate today with gentle words, but who do not present anything at all. And there are still the negationists: the Socialist Party, which talks a lot about these issues, but it is very, very little since its Minister of Science, who, when confronted by the Arrival on the hundreds of complaints of sexual abuse in a university context, which have been widely reported by the social communication, tells us only to have knowledge of 38 cases, to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, who deliberately plunged the proposals of the Arrival of Security in a university context or, for example, the national victim investigation, to know the reality of victims of sexual violence in Portugal, only for being proposed by the Arrival Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u7	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u8	We also have those who say that there are victims of good and evil. Even yesterday, we discussed violence on the Internet and became visible indifference to moral harassment, and, many times, sexual supporters of the Arrival suffer in these spaces, behaviors that are often caused by those who sit here in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u10	We also have xenophobics. They say that only violent condemnation deserves the stalker who is a Portuguese citizen, with Portuguese descent in three generations, perhaps, and if he has a past colonizer. Women who are victims of harassment on TVDE (individual and paid passenger transport on uncharacterised vehicles from an electronic platform) are less victims if they are victims of foreign citizens. Women who bathe on beaches, for example, in Odemira, and who see someone film them are less victims if this aggressor and who captures these images is, for example, a migrant. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u11	Men are also less victims of harassment, because they are not interested in the existing narrative. What this narrative tells us is that there is a generalized culture of harassment and this is good for us to maintain a sort of victim clientele, faithful to some parties in this Hemicycle. However, the data do not allow us to conclude this. Portugal, and if you continue without the broken doors, you still do not have a culture of harassment in force. You may have. What we have is, with open or closed doors, a culture of impunity. Sixty percent of the respondents in this study already mentioned consider that sexual harassment is difficult to prove and is difficult to punish. This is why what we are asking for today in this House is the aggravation of penalties for those who sexually import other people and that these penalties are aggravated, if they are practised against minors and if they are committed in a working environment, school or university, where the logic of power can translate into violence. It remains to be known who is truly on the side of the victims or who is merely populist. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u12	For the presentation of the Resolution Project No 686 / XV / 1. a ( IL), Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing here today is of utmost sensitivity. Assault is a true act of violence, attack on the dignity and physical or psychological integrity of the victim and can obviously have harmful consequences. They are diseases that urgently fight and we have a duty, as a society, not to close our eyes. For this reason, the Liberal Initiative presents here today a project with a view to creating codes of conduct, which specifically foresees the relationship in higher education institutions, in order to facilitate complaints mechanisms, so that there is a timely and efficient action, as well as the promotion of transparency mechanisms. Higher education institutions (ESI) are spaces of discovery, innovation, personal development, are spaces of freedom and, as in other places — indeed, as in all — freedom and dignity must be respected. Students, teachers and other professionals who live daily in higher education institutions must be able to live free from humiliations and abuses that attack dignity and integrity. Although the public discussion of moral and sexual harassment in recent weeks has focused on higher education institutions, it is important not to forget that these behaviors occur throughout society, and that cannot be isolated. On the concrete behaviors that proliferate in higher education institutions in Portugal, it is also important, as others, that do not perpetuate themselves—in fact, as everything in a system, it is important to remember, that there is a structural endogamy, which strengthens silence. Finally, in the midst of this whole scenario, silence broke. The victims begin to win voice and we, here, have the fundamental role of giving them that voice. We understand that higher education institutions must maintain their autonomy, but the State will never be able to resign from its regulatory role, and must, for that reason and from the outset, issue general guidelines of good practice for higher education institutions, so that it is possible to improve the reporting mechanisms and for timely and efficient action to be carried out. To this end, we also propose a comparative analysis, in particular that this be made available to higher education institutions, with good practices from countries that are most advanced on this issue. Measures, indicators, channels and codes of conduct. It is urgent that these rules exist and it is essential that higher education institutions establish these measures: preventing, identifying, combating all forms of harassment. Finally, the third and final point of our resolution: to promote and disseminate a culture of data, information and quantification, to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the mechanisms created. In short, we advocate transparency practices, because that is the only way we can do the evaluation. On the other hand, it is important to highlight the monitoring and monitoring of silence, because not to do, not to report, not to have a transparent practice outside will also be visible and it will also be a message. I would like to leave two additional notes. One first for the fact that the Government has announced a committee responsible for the strategy to prevent harassment in higher education. We have already pointed out developments in the face of an initial devaluation position—including by the Minister herself, but we are already accustomed, particularly on the eve of debate, to emptying the issue, saying the PS is already being done, and using various strategies. But let us say this differently: firstly, by congratulating ourselves on the subject; secondly, let us hope that they will approve our project so that, in a dialogueant majority logic, they can have the contributions of the various parties in this matter. Finally, I leave an important note. We can and should do our part. The government cannot stop doing its own and justice cannot fail either. Justice is not done in this house. We must guard and always remember the principle of the separation of powers, but we must also remember that there cannot be only laws and proclamations. We must remember that access to justice and the speed of it is a pillar of democracy and cannot be left out of this story. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the period of presentation of legislative initiatives and now we are moving to the period of intervention. For an intervention, Mrs Maria João Castro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the issue of sexual harassment in higher education institutions. We are united in repudiation for this crime that attacks the dignity and integrity of the victims. We are united in the desire to find the best mechanisms to prevent and combat these abusive practices. The increase in complaints of these cases in several countries and Portugal also shows that the collective mentality has changed and we no longer accept or silence these abuses. But numbers are worrying and require action. in this sense, we applaud the decision announced by the government to establish a commission, under the care of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, to define a strategy for the prevention of harassment in higher education institutions. This committee is formed by the IES, the Federations and Associations of Students, the Committee on Citizenship and Gender Equality, the Commission on Equality at Work and addressed to teachers, students, researchers and employees. Respecting the autonomy of the IES, the Government does not abdicate its regulatory function.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u17	In 2022, Minister Elvira Fortunato had appealed to the institutions to adopt codes of conduct and good practices to prevent and combat this harassment, creating channels of agile denunciation, safe, capable of impartial assessment of the situations concerned, then taking appropriate disciplinary procedures. Therefore, its composition is so important. Most institutions have responded positively — they must all be — which has contributed to more complaints and the first disciplinary proceedings. Of course, it is important to train the members of the institutions to know how to deal with this issue and it is important to have strong support from the psychology offices to all victims. The committee now formed can create solid and strict criteria and I believe that it meets many of the proposals for resolutions for which we have opened up for debate. It is also important to note that the urgent and necessary protection of victims cannot jeopardise the principles of the democratic rule of law, such as the reversal of the burden of proof. It is necessary to prove that the accused are guilty because the complaints cannot make the EIs furrows. The protection of true victims must be compatible with the exercise of all rights. In conclusion, I've been a high school teacher for almost 25 years. I know it's a learning, knowledge, research space. But it has to be more. It must be an area of freedom, sharing, cross-control, parity and democratic exercise of power. That is how you start to combat any form of abuse and therefore any form of harassment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u18	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The various cases of harassment that have come to the public, especially in the Higher Education Institutions, are proof that society is taking a path in order to allow victims to report these same cases without facing phenomena of secondary victimization. These victims are precisely those who are allowing the lifting of the veil from a reality that has been hidden for decades and has been ignored, which has perpetuated, for so long, these same cases. The Liberal Initiative shows solidarity with these real victims, but recognizes that some care is needed with regard to possible legislative intervention. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that criminal law, by creating new legal types of crimes or by increasing criminal frameworks, must always be the ultimatum of intervention. That is why, despite the seriousness of these situations — which we recognize and do not ignore — we must give due consideration to whether, on the one hand, these legal assets are no longer properly protected in legal types of crimes that already exist and, on the other hand, whether the creation of an autonomous type of sexual harassment is done with the due weight and care that the subject requires. In 2015, in this same Parliament, and in compliance with the Istanbul Convention, an extension of the concept of sexual import has already taken place, precisely so that this crime covers situations which are considered to be sexual harassment. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the case. The Criminal Code has already warned of sexual harassment, either through the crime of sexual harassment or through the crime of sexual co-operation, even more comprehensively, it seems to us that what is being done in the initiatives that are being discussed today. The Liberal Initiative does not, in principle, oppose the possibility of sexual harassment to commit an autonomous crime, but believes that this must be done in conscience and with due weighting, which does not seem to us to happen in the projects presented, particularly when it is proposed to create a crime of sexual harassment of public character. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to consider very well what we are going to do in this matter so as not to fall into a mistake and then the consequences are much worse than those we were expecting. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u20	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We thank the proponents for this opportunity to discuss once again a matter that is not new, but that has taken on worrying contours. In fact, the Government and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education came late to the scourge of moral and sexual harassment in Higher Education Institutions and, instead of taking immediate action, a year after complaints at the Lisbon Law School, they now set up an interministerial commission two days ago. It would be a good measure to be integrated into a comprehensive strategy on the causes of harassment and whether issues such as endogamy, abuse of power in academic relations and the necessary mobility — which does not exist — were part of the object of this Commission, but we do not think that this is the case. It will certainly be just one more working group like so many others that the government has already used to us, with no concrete consequences. It will be just another way of the Ministry itself to de-responsibility and show that it has changed very little to keep everything in it. It is clear to everyone that harassment in higher education institutions is a sensitive and complex matter—we all have this notion. Another reason for the Ministry to exercise the regulatory power of the State, which it should have done, rather than hide behind the argument of the autonomy of higher education institutions, as it has done so far. If you do not know what to do, you can always use good international practices and copy the good European examples in these areas, which are already some. But that wasn't even able to do, in this year of reflection. He did very little. It took a year to reflect and, after all, to provide us with the creation of another commission. Basically, they are consistent, because this says all about the sense of urgency of the socialist government. We know that most of the institutions have taken urgent measures to combat moral and sexual harassment in their contexts and the Board of Directors of the Portuguese Universities has already stated, and well again, that it will not wait for the government, nor for the conclusions of a Commission whose resources, resources and funding are not yet known. Moral and sexual harassment does not choose age, social or geographical environment and higher education institutions are naturally exposed to these situations. We cannot accept that the places where consciences are built and knowledge is produced, where consciences are awakened and built, or must be built, freedom is a stage of acts against human dignity, against the physical and psychological integrity of our students. We cannot, above all, allow the silence of the innocent to serve as a protective cloak to the aggressor. Therefore, we generally agree with the proposals put forward, but we all challenge that the discussion of the causes should be at the root and not go beyond these discussions. We want the revision of the RJIES (the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions) to be an in-depth reflection on what has brought us so far, which the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education and the Government have not yet been able to heed and on which they have not yet been able to reflect. We see ourselves urgently in a strategy to prevent and support victims of harassment, and it is important to create comprehensive codes of conduct, establishing behaviors and interactions within the institution and accessible complaints mechanisms. But above all, working simultaneously on two levels in prevention, to prevent harassment from occurring, and in combat, to effectively deal with concrete cases, assuming that the presumption of innocence is a pillar of the rule of law, that the credibility of the academy must be protected and that the rights of the victims, of course, are guaranteed. However, I repeat, we need to go further and we need to discuss the causes. And this is the challenge that has been presented to us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u22	Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u23	Madam President, today's theme should bring us together to achieve the greatest possible consensus on this subject. There is something the government could have done long ago. In conjunction with public, private and other educational institutions, the government could have created complaints and prevention mechanisms that would work. Today, the country is asking itself this: what the Socialist Government has done in seven years — seven years! — to combat this problem? He did something: yesterday, at the end of the day, we knew he had been created,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u24	Last night!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u25	... or earlier, a Commission. In all other cases that have passed and that have drawn the attention of the country, the PS bench and the PS government have little done. What we have, what we may have and what we should not have. What we have is a law that doesn't work anymore. Just look at the cases and compare it with the application of the law in our courts. What we can't have is an excess that ends up being even worse than what we have. The criminalization of pyrops,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u26	There he is! There he is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u27	... so said and transformed, it will not only be a banalization as a joke for those who come to us out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u29	Our responsibility is not to make jokes, it is to transform the law into a mechanism that actually works. So what we can't have is the criminalization of the piropo. What we have to have is complaints, prevention and a functioning law whose limitation periods do not prevent any investigation in practice. What can't we have in Portugal? A two-dimensional sexual harassment. If it is committed by Portuguese against minority people, it is a national scandal. If it is committed by Portuguese immigrants, no one wants to know, it is absolutely normal practice. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's what we can't have. We cannot have a situation in which, when the victims are right, it does not matter, it is a cultural issue. When the perpetrator, or alleged perpetrator, is a left figure, that is something we must tolerate, which we must understand. And it is even, I quote, « a pursuit of international neoliberalism».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u30	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u31	This is what we can't have. If we really want to fight harassment, we must start by treating it equally, looking at victims and aggressors like those who have to be, some, protected by law, and others, whether migrants or not, whether left or right, punished by it. That's what we want, because the law is tough, but it's to fulfill. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u32	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The practice of sexual harassment, with that name or other, in contexts of work relationship, has a lot of systemic. As the exercise of a power that primarily intimidates women—and, secondaryly, men—who are subject to hierarchical relations and, in general, power, sexual harassment materializes in various forms of sexual coercion, which can lead to attacks on sexual self-determination or what, in the Criminal Code, has been referred to as'sexual import'. The studies and data of the newspaper show that a very significant proportion of women were, at some point in their lives — or in several — victims of sexual harassment in a context, therefore, that has a very strong dimension of gender and culture of patriarchal domination that is far from being eradicated from our society. In the academic sphere, these behaviors are of their own nature, it is true, but in a context which, however, does not differ much from all power relations marked by logics of social inequality and identity. The abuse of power exercised by those with legal or institutional superiority over victims tends to be common in the context of institutions such as higher education, which remain strongly hierarchical and where there is an institutional culture tendingly corporate that, until a few years ago, ensured a more or less diffuse environment of impunity. If the working relationships reproduce, in these institutions, the same context as any other public or private institution or company, there are specific dimensions that relate to relations of relative dependence between, on the one hand, teachers, evaluators, scientific supervisors or project managers, and, on the other hand, students and researchers whose success in school, scholarship and / or research contract depends on the effective respect for their identity, dignity and rights. The projects under discussion today, relating to sexual harassment in an academic context, propose, on the one hand, more or less formal schemes that facilitate the denunciation of such practices, in a framework in which, in higher education institutions as in any other workplace, the vast majority of victims feel greatly intimidated, and the creation of codes of conduct that help prevent and provide for sanctions against harassment. It is in this formal and institutional dimension that, without rejecting the proposed initiatives, we have very reasonable doubts about their effectiveness. It is to the institutions where perpetrators work that are asked to develop, adopt and apply these same codes of conduct. We speak, I insist, in the same institutions where often some of the perpetrators have stood out or stand out as managers and leaders, creating webs of professional relations that have ensured them social, professional and still institutional prestige. The logic that I have just stated was very evident in the reply that on 15 April, Minister Elvira Fortunato announced for these problems: that they should be « resolved on the basis of the autonomy of higher education institutions and their bodies ». What will this mean in a framework of generalized dedemocratization of educational institutions, universities and polytechnics, thanks to the RJIES and, within the framework of this, the spousal creation of private law foundations where there were previously public institutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u35	It is the bodies from which students and researchers are practically absent, as well as most precarious teachers who today work in higher education who are asked to define codes of conduct and exercise the disciplinary power. Higher education institutions are to all degrees — as schools and centres of scientific and technological research — places of work, although they are simultaneously spaces of educational and educational training, in which, although they must be spaces of emancipation and empowerment, they reproduce, despite the full civic majority of all members of the academic community, power relations that we so well know in the history of educational institutions, as well as those in which the professions structured in highly hierarchical professional careers are developed. Without effective democratization of labour relations and social relations in all spheres of collective life, it will always be difficult to derail the sexual or moral harassment of our lives now. Inequities increase abuse. It is precariousness that promotes impunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u37	As for the two projects for the creation of specific crimes of sexual harassment, although our Criminal Code does not consecrate it, remember two expert judges, José Mouraz Lopes and Tiago Caiado Milheiro, who he "provides, a set of crimes, which vary according to the severity of the harassment, such as sexual coercion, the threat to sexual self-determination (for example, in the sending of messages of sexual charity), sexual harassment, injury, words, gestures, images, or any means of expression, which is attentive to the honour and consideration of the victim), the repeated acts of persecution or harassment of another person, by any means, directly or indirectly, to harm their freedom of determination. As the Supreme Council of the Magistratura maintains in its opinion on the concrete project of the Block of the Left, «the only reasons justifying this empowerment of the crime of “qualified sexual harassment” through standard examples rooted in the increase of the abstract frame of punishment and in the public allocation to crime, while not deserving, except for better opinion, any of them, agreement». Do not agree with the definition of the crime of sexual harassment in the Criminal Code — that is, its empowerment as such — has nothing to do with some kind of a tibiasity or moral reactionaryism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u39	The history of the PCP proves it well. What we think is that it is above all a logic of not taking into account the concrete material conditions in which the relations of power and hierarchy that always push us to criminal responses to social issues develop. I don't think that's the position of the Left Block, but it's not at least certainly ours. [[Applause from the PCP and the PS deputy Cládia Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u41	Madam President, you are right to say that leaving the fight against harassment to the autonomy of the institutions, as has been the speech of the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, is to leave everything in it. Above all, think that the Higher Education Institutions, whose management and organization is increasingly less democratic, as it has been said, will create the mechanisms themselves to find, to punish, the attackers, the aggressors that exist within them, that is to say that nothing will change. That is why the Left Block proposes a channel that is outside the Higher Education Institutions and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, which brings together institutions within the Secretariat of State for Equality and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. That is where complaints must be dealt with. As for the working group proposed by the Government, it is another. We have nothing against him, but we're going to have to do more than advertise working groups. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u42	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will talk about the draft laws of the Left Block and of the Arrival, which seek to amend the Penal Code on sexual harassment. At first glance it might seem strange to us that this harmony between the Bloc and the Arrival, but those who pay attention to these matters will conclude that it has been recurrent. The two bills have, of course, differences, but sit on the same preference for a symbolic criminal law, almost pamphletary, ignoring that, in a democratic state, criminal law should be used with much parsimony and efficiency. Enough wants to make the feathers worse, and there's nothing particularly new about it. It is a kind of belief in the magical power of the aggravation of the feathers, a belief not supported by any evidence and, in the opinion of APAV, it is called this « fallacy» and it is said to be harmful to the victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u44	But we don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u45	In the bill there is nothing very new, but in the explanatory statement there is. It is that sexual harassment is associated with some migrant communities, a perspective that is not based on empirical studies and that is clearly discriminatory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the same statement of reasons, it is also written, and I will quote, that "women must have the freedom to enjoy their femininity, just as men should have the freedom to appreciate it. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Rice from PS and PCP Members.]] We could not understand the scope of such a miraculous statement in a bill that aims to combat sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u46	It's from the caves!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u47	So I move on to the bill of the Left Block, which wants to create a crime of sexual harassment. The problem, of course, is that sexual harassment is already criminalized and, as has been said persistently, depending on the modality of conduct, sexual coercion, rape, persecution or sexual harassment can be applied in cases of sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u48	The problem is prescription, prescription!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u49	The problem is that the Bloc bill has other much more serious difficulties, which lead the opinions to provoke the possible unconstitutionality. These more serious problems of the Block project relate to the indetermination of the concepts used to describe the conduct they want to prohibit. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr. André Aventura, the pyropo has been criminalized since 2015. That's not what we're discussing today. What we're discussing is, I'm sorry to say, it's a lot more scary than the criminalization of the Block, and I'm going to give two examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u50	They want nothing to be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u51	First, the Block whether it is a crime, I will quote, « make non-verbal comments of sexual content». I wonder what will be « non-verbal comments of sexual content». Obsessive sexual gestures are already criminalized, as explained by the Superior Council of the Magistrate. So we ask ourselves: What do you want to ban now more when adding non-verbal comments of sexual content? We refer to blinking eyes in a libidinous way, to lust, to obscene thoughts, do we want to prohibit obscene thoughts? I move on to the second example. The Block wants it to be a crime to verbally hinder intimate contact, even if it is not of a sexual nature. I wonder again what the behaviors included here might lead a person to jail in the future because that is what we are talking about. To verbally hinder intimate contact, even without sexual nature, to talk to someone else about intimate matters, if they do not want to listen to us, should it be a crime in this ideal world of chaste people that the Block seems to crave? Maybe it's hard to have this kind of conversation, brutally rude, but when did you ever think anything rude or rude should be a crime?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u53	We all think sexual harassment is unacceptable. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u54	The problem of the projects is not even the globalization of its proponents, although we may have doubts about a certain implicit idea that violence is a kind of an appanagio of relations between men and women, as if there was no harassment of men against men and women against women. But the main problem of these projects is another: it is the misunderstanding that criminal law is the armed arm of the State, the branch of law that has the exclusive of prison and that therefore cannot be used as an instrument of education or promotion of our worlds. Using criminal law to do social pedagogy, treating concrete people condemned as collateral damage towards another future, is rendering a terrible service to democracy. In 1995 there was a paradigm shift in the Penal Code and sexual crimes ceased to relate to « the protection of collective feelings of dominant sexual morality. » The phrase is not mine. They don't count on us to put the criminal right back into service any other moral, dominant or not. History shows us that this is bad for everyone, for men and, above all, for women, and it is freedom that we are talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u55	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today proposals from the Left Block, the Arrival and the NAP that aim to alter the crime of sexual harassment, empowering sexual harassment, exacerbating the legal type, exacerbating the criminal frame and conferring public nature to the crime. The crime of sexual harassment covers three typical behaviors, namely: the practice, in front of another person, of acts of exhibitionist character; the embarrassment of contact of a sexual nature; and the formulation of proposals of a sexual content. The crime of sexual import was densified by Law No 83 / 2015 of 15 August, which aimed to comply with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, of course the doctrine and jurisprudence have debated its scope. In this regard, Clara Sottomayor considers that « the concept of sexual proposals contained in the current article 170. that of the Criminal Code should be interpreted in the light of the concept of gender violence of the Istanbul Convention, covering not only unwanted sexual invitations as well as humiliating and degrading words, comments or expressions on the body of women or referring to sexual acts desired by the stalker, even if metaphorical or symbolic language is used, but whose sexual meaning is perceived by the generality of people. This applies not only to women, but also to men, however we all know that women are the great majority. Also Paulo Pinto de Albuquerque includes this legal type, which already exists, and I quote also, "words or sounds expressed or communicated by the agent, such as jokes, questions, considerations, spoken orally or in writing, as well as expressions or communications by the agent that do not involve words or sounds, such as facial expressions, movements with hands or symbols. Do not keep on seeking. ” Courts have also understood that the crime of sexual harassment aims to protect the sexual freedom of another person, with particular focus on the fact that they do not have to endure any conduct that attacks or constrains the sexual sphere of that person. The ethical and social reprobation that these conducts deserve, and which include the set of behaviours that initiatives intend to empower, is already recognized and has translation into various legal types of crime, in a panoply that covers crimes of lesser gravity, such as sexual import, even the most serious ones, such as sexual coercion or even rape. The figure assumes that the proposed amendments are already covered, in a broader way, in the law and that their empowerment does not have the virtuality of strengthening the protection of victims, and much less the worsening of penal frameworks. On the other hand, it ignores the principle of the minimum intervention of criminal law. It is good for Parliament to bear in mind that criminal law is the ultimate ratio and should only be used as a last resort. It is the most powerful weapon the State has and therefore should not embark on a spiral of criminal legislative inflation. This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament must be of good opinion, and it must be well aware of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. This was also quite explicit in the opinions that the APAV and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy issued on these initiatives. Finally, reiterating that criminal law should intervene only in the final instance. It's never too much to say. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have heard the Socialist Party's speech and I have noticed that we have a common issue in fact. How is it possible in real Portugal, in Lisbon today, in Odemira, in Santarém, we have no evidence of the situations of harassment that occur by some kind of communities? How is that possible? But you know why? Because the research centres, because the media are funded by those who are not independent and by someone who does well to maintain this narrative. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u59	So let's see: how is it possible to speak of mass migration,... [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] ... that it is polygamous, indeed, where policies of disrespect reign with women, where there is female genital mutilation, where women do not enjoy full rights, and do they think that this is not a risk to women?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u60	That's homophobia, and that's not what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u61	It is a huge hypocrisy and, above all, it is not knowing reality. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Get out of the cars of your drivers and get on a TVDE to understand what real Portugal is. And then I mean that fighting sexual harassment is also not opening the doors and not creating more spaces where harassment may occur. I have to confront the Left Block with one of your proposals. It is that the Left Block brought to this Parliament the proposal to create mixed bathrooms,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] ... that schools should ensure that students and members of staff, teachers and non-teachers—i.e., children and adults—, in exercising their rights, can access bathrooms and bathrooms,... [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] ... always taking into account your express will, whether the express will of a harasser, an abuser or a rapist. [[PS and BE protests.]] That is why anyone who hears us at home could say: “Hypocrisy! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u62	Do you agree now? You just got here now, you woke up now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u63	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, I ask you not to say « shame» while I am talking, while I am... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u64	You have to stop the time, Madam President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u65	I did not say « shame»!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u66	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no dialogue, as you know. There can be no dialogue between banks and between Members and Members. Therefore, Mrs. Rita Matias, please continue and conclude, because you have wasted your time. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u67	Of course I do. So I was here questioning the question of the Left Block proposal on mixed bathrooms, because whoever hears us there at home could say that this is a great hypocrisy, they want to protect us now, women and girls, in spaces of intimacy. But I say no, it is not a hypocrisy; indeed, it is the same clientelism as ever, because it is good to create more victims who use friendly associations to receive more funding from the state and, above all, to translate themselves into votes. But it will not happen, because we will oppose this kind of exploitation of victims and women. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Matias : It is peculiar that I have heard you talk about women's rights when you publicly say anti-feminist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u70	So what? Oh, my God! So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u71	Being a feminist means believing that half of humanity cannot be deprived of rights on the basis of gender criteria and, therefore, perhaps it should rethink its claim when it wants to talk about women's rights. I think your question related to the question of migrants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u72	I didn't ask any questions, I made a statement!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u73	... and with the fact that I have accused of discriminatory the draft law of the Arrival when, in the explanatory statement, it refers to migrant communities, men of migrant communities, such as the principal ones responsible for sexual harassment. This perspective is extraordinarily dangerous for the victims,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u74	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u75	... because it desensitizes the aggressors, who are not part of these communities and, above all, is a perspective that does not recognize the role of science, which does not understand what is criminology, which does not realize that the proposals of criminal policy should be made on the basis of empirical studies and therefore this perspective is, above all, in what we are concerned, very dangerous for the protection of the rights of all women and all victims of sexual harassment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u76	Mrs Rita Matias, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u77	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u79	Madam President, I would like to ask the President and the Bureau to be able to distribute to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group the various proposals that have been put forward by him in the defence of women, in the defence of victims of sexual violence, in particular the proposal to strengthen security measures in a university context. You don't have to be a feminist to defend women's rights...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u81	...and you don't have to adopt Marxist agendas to want to defend women, especially defend them from you. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u82	Mrs Deputy, as you know from the honourable Member and the House, all those documents you have referred to are from public knowledge. We are moving to the closing stage of this debate. To that end, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u83	Madam President: The Left Block has the same understanding that, historically, feminist associations and women's rights have had on amendments to the Criminal Code: they serve to introduce justice, but they also serve to show society the censorability of certain crimes, whose perception is evolving, according to social reality. This was the case with domestic violence, so it was with crimes of rape, so historically, with crimes of self-determination and sexual freedom that mainly affect women's rights. Parties, particularly the Socialist Party and Mrs Cláudia Santos, may agree or disagree with this view on amendments to the Penal Code and proposals in particular. What the honourable Member cannot do is ridicule the proposals, as you have done here, because this has a consequence, which is to ridicule women who are being harassed. When Mrs. Deputy comes here to say that the Left Block wants to condemn absolutely ridiculous things, like a blink of an eye, when our project is about sexual harassment, which is a serious reality, what Mrs. Deputy is doing is ridiculing women who suffer harassment, normalizing and excusing, confusing serious acts of harassment, which are those that the Block wants to criminalize, with acts that are not sexual harassment. It is necessary to distinguish, because there are no serious acts of harassment and not serious acts of harassment. What there is is acts that are sexual harassment and acts that are not sexual harassment. And those who are, must, in the perspective of the Left Block, be criminalized. It is not, in fact, strange this prospect, for example, of the Spanish Penal Code or the French Criminal Code. Our Criminal Code, from this point of view, is the most conservative, from the point of view of typification of the crime of sexual harassment. Mrs Mónica Quintela at least seemed to me to admit, or that is what I understand, that there may be a debate on this matter, which is already a little more advanced. We can debate what we may or may not refer to in the Criminal Code as sexual harassment, and whether this appears or is exhausted in the crime of importunation. It has been said here « the pyropo is already a crime». The pyropo is already a crime if it is formulated as a proposal; if it is not formulated as a proposal, it is not a crime, Mrs. I remember that we are discussing the censorship of the crime of harassment and we are discussing the ability of the Criminal Code to respond to a social reality. It is not the law that creates crimes; it is the crimes that create the law. And the truth is that sexual harassment is a very expressive reality in the country, unknown, in relation to which there are few complaints, few convictions...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u85	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is undeniable that the Penal Code has not responded to this social reality. We can expect reality to change or we can change the Penal Code. It seems to me that there is one that is more obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u86	Thank you very much. The honourable Member has already exceeded her time in a very long time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u87	Madam President, I just wanted to say that what determines what criminal populism is or is not the Socialist Party's agreement. I just wanted to remind Mrs. Deputy of that. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u88	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We turn to point 2 of our agenda, which is generally based on the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 16 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, repealing the tax benefits allocated to political parties. The Bureau does not have any inscriptions. [[Pause.]] This means that we can move on to the vote. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was indeed extraordinary if no party in this House wanted to pronounce on a proposal aimed at ending the tax benefits of the parties. It is that for us, this discussion today is particularly easy because we have been the party that has most often brought to plenary the issue of public funding from political parties, and we do not accept that the law confers on political parties benefits that are denied to all citizens. True, democracy has costs, but it has to be said with all the letters that it does not have to have such high costs. Between electoral campaign grants, financing grants and tax benefits, the parties represent tens of millions of euros of annual charges for all of us. We believe that dependence on private financing should be avoided and, therefore, never—never—we proposed the elimination of the limits to funding by individual donors or the exclusion of business financiers. But we say that the charges resulting from subsidies and tax benefits are excessive and unjustified. And we say more: any party that intends to manage the public thing in the future, that is, the money of the Portuguese in the future, should give the example of restraint and imagination of being able to do more with less, to depend more on the commitment and effort of its individual supporters and less on the state. We have already said here in Parliament at some point, and today is a good day to repeat: the left parties like a lot of taxes, but they like very much unless they have to pay them, because in fact they do not pay them, they do not pay them, they do not pay them, they do not pay them, they do not tax them, IMI (municipal tax on real estate), they do not like IMT (municipal tax on property tax), they do not pay them, they do not pay them, they do not pay them, they do not pay tax on value added tax. Nothing! Once and for all, we have to moralize the issue of financing the parties, of the tens of millions of euros that cost, of inequality between parties that perpetuate, of the waste of environmental impact that these pharaonic campaigns have. All this without reducing abstention, increasing the clarification of Portuguese and promoting the renewal of the political class. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are discussing, at the initiative of the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, a proposal to put an end to some tax benefits of political parties, in particular the existing exemptions relating to vehicle tax, IMI, IMT and other property taxes. It is unfortunate that the proposal does not go as far as that of the Liberal Initiative, which does not interfere with the seal tax and VAT exemption, which does not discuss again the issue of the reduction of subsidies, either of campaigning or of operating. But still, it is worth starting somewhere and today we can end some benefits that parties enjoy, but that do not give citizens who are supposed to represent. That is why we will vote in favour again, as we have always done, since the first day we arrived in this Parliament and, once again, we do it not because of an easy populism, but because of a matter of decency and because we have the deep conviction that it is the best thing for democracy. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block believes that this discussion should be held within the framework of the current financing paradigm of the parties that exist in Portugal, which is that of public financing. That is the right paradigm that protects democracy and does not leave it in the hands of private funding. Imagine the tragedy that would be if only the parties with the support of the Champalimaud family or the Mello family could have money to finance themselves, if only the parties with the support of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and Ricardo Salgado could have money to finance themselves, and of what this would represent for democracy. Let us look at other countries where public funding is not the rule to understand how this is an open door—it is not even a window, it is an open door—to corruption. But with public funding, there are special duties: special duties of transparency and special duties of justice, from the outset fiscal justice. The Left Block has already put forward measures in this House to end certain tax benefits that parties are, in our view, unduly beneficiaries. This is the case with IMI, it is the case with the car tax, and we have already introduced VAT measures. We also remember, however, against antidemocratic populism, that there are other entities, including the Santa Casa da Misericórdia, which benefits from the same exemptions, for example, in the case of property tax, even if the buildings are not affected by the social function of the Santa Casa. Therefore, if the Holy House decides to make its estate profitable, it must pay taxes, like any other entity that places its real estate to be profitable. We also believe that electoral campaigns should have limits on their financing and that there should therefore be duties of proportionality, fiscal justice and transparency. That is the view, that is what we are going to keep in Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u92	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have resumed a debate which we have not had for so long, precisely on the end of tax exemptions to political parties and, in large part, I will remember some of the things I have noted in this debate. I recall a judicial decision, on the other hand of the Atlantic, the infamous Citizens United of 2010, which opened in the United States the door to the absence of any limit to private contributions in the financing of election campaigns, opening the door to the development of the CAP (political action committee) and the Super CAP, in order, through forms created for campaign financing, there is a significant increase in the influence and reduction of party independence through private funding. What is the remedy to avoid dependence on private funding? There is robust public funding, which ensures that political parties are recognised in their instrumental role for democracy, a function to ensure representation, to create ways for political programmes to develop, to have formats for citizens to be able to participate, without dependence on private financiers, without becoming dependent on links to large economic groups, without being seen to what is going on in the United States, for example — which I also recalled here in the debate — around arms control, in which there is a clear repudiation of the overwhelming majority of public opinion on the subject, but in which the dependence on funding obtained through the arms lobby prevents it, precisely because there is dependence on the financing of electoral campaigns. Therefore, what we have on the table could be a debate on tax benefits, could be a general debate on tax benefits, whether other institutions, especially those that are beneficiaries of the status of public utility—some time ago Mrs Joana Mortágua identified several of them, such as IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), football clubs, cultural associations, trade unions—, must also benefit from the same regime, or a more favourable regime, because they are recognized as performing a mission and a purpose of public interest. I believe that this House continues to recognize the mission of public interest that political parties continue to play or must play. Because this debate is not about posters on the streets and environmental waste, this debate is not about the internal rules of the parties and about the malfunction of the parties, this debate is not about the lack of transparency within the political parties. We can do so, in fact, we must do so within the framework of the law of the functioning of political parties, but we must not confuse the two debates. The direct consequence of this debate would be to reduce the capacity of the parties to operate and to have financial independence, because, as has already been recalled by the previous speaker, only the buildings and only the cars that are affected by the party's activity are benefiting from this exemption. So, what is often placed on the table when this debate takes place, the idea that parties with vast real estate assets are vast beneficiaries of this reality, actually does not correspond to what results from the law. The law only provides exemption when there is a direct link between the party's activity and the property, or the car, which it is affecting. And it is a balance that, if dismantled, with the pure and simple revocation of tax benefits, naturally imbalances the way parties finance themselves, and it will not be fair to do this exercise without rethinking the financing model. If that is the debate they want, it is a debate we can have. But again, and back to the beginning of the conversation, the fundamental thing is to continue to ensure that public funding is the way to favour independence, impartiality and the absence of undue influences on the functioning of the party structures and, therefore, once again, we will not follow the end of these exemptions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u94	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u95	Mr President, my speech will indeed be very short just to say that, if anyone had doubts about the need for this debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' intervention would be absolutely right about that. I mean, come invoking things that no one is proposing, of the genre, end the limits to private financing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u96	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u97	...and come to say that there is an imbalance that can be created if we withdraw the tax benefits. The argument I used was that the tax benefits are immoral, because the Portuguese do not benefit them, it is not because other institutions benefit. We can also discuss this and end it. Now, the honourable Member is bringing about a new element in this discussion: it is that the end of the tax benefits would disbalance the financing of the parties. Therefore, what tells me is that immorality is much greater than I assumed, because campaigns cost EUR 8 million or EUR 9 million, PS subsidies must be EUR 10 million, and if that would disbalance the finances of political parties, then the matter is much more serious, and then we have to deal with this and we have to even end this little shame. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u98	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: So we are again discussing the law of financing parties and electoral campaigns. This debate repeats a discussion that we have had last year, on 7 June 2022, beyond all those that, over the last few years, now in the State Budget, now during the normal period of Parliament's operation, we will have, in which some parties, populistly, always bring the debate about the cutting of tax benefits or the subsidies of political parties. Well, here are some notions that we have to settle. First, the PSD completely refuses that the financing of the parties should proceed in ways other than public funding and the quotas of its militants or the respective donations of natural persons. Therefore, we do not accept funding from companies or civil builders, because this would bring little transparency to the functioning of our democracy. And, therefore, when we come into this discussion, we must be serious in the way we do the discussion, under the penalty of being opening doors to other phenomena which we certainly do not want to bring to the Portuguese example. And it's funny to talk about transparency. It is also the case that on 17 June 2022 a proposal was approved by a party — which, by chance, is not present at this time — which provided that political parties had to publish, on their websites, the annual accounts of the parties. And if we make a history of what is happening today in different parties, we see this: the Liberal Initiative presents on its website the list of actions and means, only the activities — does not correspond to the financial values it spends. So, transparency, none.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u100	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u101	The arrival does not disclose their annual accounts on your website.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u102	They were approved last week!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u103	In the case of the Left Block, the last time you published accounts was compared to 2017. The list of shares and means is on the website, corresponding to their respective financial means, but is relative to 2017. We're in 2023. The NAP, the last accounts it submits, relate to 2020. And the PCP has no accounts and the Free doesn't have accounts on your website either. So if we talk about transparency—now, if you go to see the PSD website, there's the budget, there's the accounts, there's the management report, there's the financial statements, cash flows, the reviewer's opinion, the audit report, it's all there — no party in this House has published this on its website. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] That is why we understand the discussion we are having here. It is a debate that provokes populism, which does not really want to discuss anything and ignores, for example, that political parties are not the only entities in our country that have tax benefits. But it is important to understand why the parties and these entities, where we include trade union associations, public utility collectives, cooperatives, IPSSs and a non-number of other entities, enjoy such benefits. Why do they have them? They have why they play a public function essential to the functioning of our democracy. [[PSD applause.]] And it is important to recognize this and therefore not to abdicate what is an essential element for us, which is transparency in funding. The law that exists is transparent and therefore we do not think there is reason to change the law that we have in this regard. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u104	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u105	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u107	Mr President, it is only because, in the previous speech, Mr Carneiro gave information that does not correspond to the truth and, therefore, it is for me to correct this information to the plenary. The truth is that the Liberal Initiative, on its website, following that proposal that was presented, in addition to actions and means, since 2017, when the Liberal Initiative began to be a political party, also has annual accounts, in addition to a set of information from all campaigns. Therefore, this information is all on the website of the Liberal Initiative, and not just the actions and means. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed once again the financing of the parties. This is a proposal that seeks to eliminate tax benefits from political parties. Unfortunately, it is a debate that is often marked by demagogy and hypocrisy, and today it is no exception either. In addition to diabolizing political parties, it systematically resorts to lies, in order to condition people's opinions. It is not true that parties do not pay taxes. The exemption, for example, from the IMI, which is expected, concerns what is its political activity. And this is also not different from what applies to other entities, such as IPSS, religious entities, trade union associations, associations of farmers, traders, industry, independent professionals, sports associations, youth associations, collectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u110	What about the Avante? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u111	It seems that this set of exemptions does not generate discussion. So why does the question always arise about political parties? Are they not an integral part of our society? It is clear that this suspicion is intended to be raised in relation to the political parties, which we reject. The parties are today the most controlled entities in their accounts. We understand that political parties should be responsible for collecting the financial resources they need to develop their activities, and that funding should essentially be based on the contributions of their militants and supporters and not on public subsidies. The current party financing law deserves the opposition of the CFP, because it imposes limitations on the freedom of action of the parties and constitutes an interference of the State in the internal life of the parties,... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] ... by hindering, or even preventing, the collection of funds based on the own initiative and the contribution of the party members and their supporters, while maintaining an exaggerated level of public funding of the parties through the high amounts of state grants. The party activity must be valued by the state, but this does not imply that the parties should live at the expense of the state, as happens to some of those who are here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u112	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u113	We therefore support the substantial reduction in public funding of the parties and the maximum amount of expenditure admitted to election campaigns. These are proposals that we have brought here the debate and we believe that this should be the way to take on the financing of the parties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u114	What about Fronte's VAT? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u115	Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u116	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot fail to praise this bill, which, in fact, comes in the way of what our party has been defending and which has been properly framed in a bill presented last year. from here we congratulate the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, having had the political courage to propose the elimination of these benefits, thus bringing more revenue to the state and less costs to the taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, according to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), the tax burden on citizens reached an unprecedented level in 2022, increasing almost 15 % nominally and reaching more than 87 billion euros, corresponding to 36, 4 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), having exceeded 35, 3 % registered in 2021. But while Portuguese businesses and families are suffocating with more taxes, political parties continue to enjoy tax exemptions without any justification. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it not only translates a political indecency as a huge fiscal injustice. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In our view, these tax exemptions are grossly in violation of the principle of taxpayer equality between citizens, ranging from inheritance and donation tax to municipal tax on expensive property transmissions, to municipal property tax and car tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u118	Thus, while the common citizen sees the burden of taxes rising constantly, political parties continue to enjoy various tax benefits, while millions and millions of euros in real estate. For example, according to the figures in the annual accounts of political parties for 2021 available on the website of the Political Accounts and Financing Entity, the CFP declared nearly EUR 15 million in tangible fixed assets and the PSD declared at this headquarters nearly EUR 23 million. It therefore seems clear to us that political parties live in a fiscal paradise where successive PS and PSD governments, with or without management, are afraid to remain untouchable. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In good rigour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asking which is rational for the maintenance of this kind of privilege. After all, what is the reason for the existence of tax exemptions and benefits for political parties? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Portuguese want from the political parties is that they are an example of responsibility and seriousness, and they must, as far as possible, be subject to the same tax obligations as the other entities or individuals. in this context, and the good of political decency and greater fiscal justice, the arrival maintains and defends that there are no plausible reasons for maintaining certain tax benefits attributed to political parties. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u119	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carneiro came here to make a survey of the publications of the parties on their official pages, regardless of the importance of this issue, and he said that this is what we are discussing today, which is what our debate is about. It is not, sir, it is not. Our debate is not on the parties' pages, nor is it on the party's accounts. Our debate is about tax benefits to parties, which, in the perspective of the Left Block, should be seen in a more comprehensive understanding, a more comprehensive discussion on tax benefits to various entities that we understand should not have. We mentioned social sector entities and, in particular, parties. But I would like to make it clear that we have this understanding, precisely to protect public funding and this paradigm of essentially public funding from the parties. We believe that measures must be taken to protect the public financing of attacks, yes, populists, which come and will always come against the parties and the public funding of the parties, which is the one that protects our democracy from corruption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u121	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently said that the Liberal Initiative did not present its annual accounts on your website and I am making the correction here. They find themselves in a next door link, which was not so perceptible and, therefore, will have-CL escaped me and I make that correction. However, it is only a record of the balance sheet and the demonstration of results. The PSD presents the audit report, the opinion of the official auditor, all financial statements, the management report, much more complete information, but I recognize that it is indeed a step forward that the Liberal Initiative has in relation to other parties, which do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u123	The arrival approved them this weekend!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u124	Also responding to Mrs Joana Mortágua, I must say that there is one point where we agree, which is the question of public funding. We agree on that. But the discussion has evolved a lot beyond the mere question of tax benefits and, therefore, if it is to talk about the parties and the financing of the parties, we must certainly also talk about transparency. Let me also comment on the Party's intervention: the Party comes, beating hands on its chest, talking about the dramatic tax benefits or public funding to the parties. Mr Member, since the arrival so much likes to propose committees of inquiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u125	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u126	... I hope that there is no need to propose a committee of inquiry to figure out where the arrival was going to get 7 million euros to buy the CDS headquarters.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u127	Bank financing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u128	It's still worth explaining where the arrival was going to get 7 million euros to buy the CDS headquarters! [[PSD applause.]] It's in the news, it's in the public domain, and it's about to be clarified. Let us hope that it will not be with any other funding other than public funding. And, therefore, it is to be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u129	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u130	I shall conclude by saying the following: the recent example of the CDS and also what happened with some parties, particularly with the Left Block, with regard to the reduction in the number of votes and the loss of subsidies, demonstrates that parties cannot remain in the hands of private companies to obtain their financing. We must ensure that the parties are independent. That is the position of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u131	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we bring the issue here, or when we talk about funding from political parties, I realize that there are parties that have difficulty talking about it. I listened carefully to Mr. Hugo Carneiro, who spoke in transparency, then spoke in populism, and asked how would the arrival buy the CDS headquarters. I understand you're worried, because the CDS is missing, the CDS that God has disappeared, and you need a mule. You've already noticed that with the arrival you don't have a crutch, and you've also realized that with the IL you will have difficulty having a crutch. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Sir, tell people the truth. It's indecent what's spent on political parties. Indecent! It is indecent that the PSD, in the 2022 campaign, spent EUR 2 million on the campaign, EUR 2 million! That's why it's indecent, when there are people who have difficulty having food on the table,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...have difficulty paying for the car by the end of the month, have difficulty paying for your home. It's indecent what the PSD does and keeps doing. Political parties cannot be benefited, while all Portuguese have to pay taxes. Political parties remain at the margins of these taxes, they continue not to pay IMI, when people have difficulty paying IMI. That is populism, and that is what you did here today. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u133	It's been registered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u134	For an intervention... Mr. Hugo Carneiro asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u135	Mr President, for one point of order to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, I would like to request the distribution of a document. It is public — certainly Mr President will say that he is public — but I have to point out, otherwise no one knows, and, if I may, that would be what I would do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u136	So do the favor, very quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u137	This is Law No 4 / 2017, also with the PSD initiative, which proposed a 10% cut in the political party subsidies in 2017, 20 % in the election campaigns and more than 20 % in the campaign for the elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u138	And we're populists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important to make it clear in this discussion that the exemption provided for in the law is what has to do with the political activity of political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u141	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u142	The PCP pays taxes, and that's a reality. This is the reality! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u143	How much do you pay? Oh, my God! And the Avante?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u144	How much is the VAT of the Avante? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u145	And whoever here has tax privileges, tax benefits, these, yes, attributed to economic groups, on which the party comes depends,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u146	It's enough financiers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u147	...is a crutch of these economic groups. [[PCP applause.]] And that is why he does not face them in this debate, because that is the real tax injustice right now. When we bring here the tax relief for the workers and the proposal to tax the economic groups, the great fortunes, the profits, the arrival is always against,... [[PCP applause.]] ...is against these proposals, which well reveals their position. Madam President, in conclusion, let me say the following. [[CH protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u148	Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u149	What about Aveiro's seat? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u150	We understand that, since its creation, the CFP has a great public utility for workers, for the people and for the country. If the leaders of other parties have the understanding that their parties do not have this utility, that is very enlightening, but it also reveals well the interests they defend and the interests on which they are dependent. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u151	If the parties don't serve anything, they're done with them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u152	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate, he apparently was not about the only thing that could have been useful. If what we discuss is tax benefits, then let us do this debate on tax benefits and their usefulness. Perhaps to begin this conversation on tax benefits, a good principle, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, was not to say « they are a little ashamed». It is not the best qualifier, not populist, to start a debate on tax benefits using that expression. Why? Because the tax benefits, when there are — you may think it is immoral, but knowing the law, perhaps, was more appropriate — are attributed by law when there is any reason for public interest to justify it. And there are reasons for public interest in unions in IPSS there are reasons for public interest in political parties. We can disagree about this identification, we can disagree about the quantification, but we do the debate at least with these minimums of adherence to what is contained and resulting from the law. I wanted to conclude by giving a note. Mr Rui Afonso, from the Czech Republic, asked a question which has been raised for some time now: what is the reason for the existence of exemptions for the parties? This question, in fact, brings another hidden question, is the foreword of another question. Who wants to ask which reason the existence of exemption for the parties is ultimately ashamed to ask the question: "What is the reason for the existence of parties? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u154	It is, in a way, the preamble to that question on « we do not need parties». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u155	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u156	« The parties are one thing that divides», it is an old conversation, it is a conversation that for many years was heard to delegitimize the form of representation of the Portuguese in this Chamber. And the Portuguese are in this House through political parties, organized from social democracy to communism, from the Block of Left to the Socialist Party, now, to the extreme right, too, and the parties have this instrumental function. Therefore, the reason why there are tax benefits that depend on the identification of the public interest, and it identifies itself in this context, is that the public interest, here underlying, is the functioning of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u157	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u158	We have concluded the second item on our agenda. Let us move on to the third point, with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I request the services which open the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] Have any Members or Members not been able to sign up because they had electronic problems? So, so, I ask the services that close the quorum verification and disclose the results. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we will proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No 355 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — regretting the death of Eduarda Dionisio. I ask Secretary Maria of the Rosinha Light to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u159	Madam President, let me read: « Eduarda Dionisio ( 1946 - 2023 ), daughter of the professor, writer, painter and committed antifascist Mário Dionisio, whose work continued, devoted his life to teaching, promoting cultural creation, critical sense and public debate, since the last years of the dictatorship and after April 1974. She was a teacher at the Camões High School of the University City and at the Gil Vicente High School ; she was an activist and union leader; she published educational books and contributed to the reflection on education; since her college time, she has been a translator of plays, actress, dramatist and stagemaker, having collaborated with some of the groups and companies that determined the paths of the new theatre in Portugal. He participated in newspapers and magazines (in the 1970s, Criticism, with Jorge Silva Melo and others ; in the 1980s and 1990s, Fight, with João Martins Pereira, Jorge Silva Melo and others ) ; wrote fiction about the enthusiasm and disillusionment in the years of the democratic turn(as Portrait of a Friend While Speaking, 1979 ; A short time later ( The Temptations ), 1984 ; The Stories No End, 1997 ) ; he analyzed the evolution of culture in Portugal ( Titles, Actions, Obligations: The Culture in Portugal, 1974 - 1994, 1994 ) ; he disclosed Tina Modotti's work of photography ; and made his own painting. Interested by all the arts and, above all, by the social movement that could develop around the cultural expression, he promoted collective initiatives that were significant in the life of his city, such as the space for evoking and updating social struggles in April in May or, from 2009 onwards, the Casa da Achada, where he brought together the husband of Mário Dionisio and began to carry out multiple activities inspired by the contributions of that generation to national public life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Eduarda Dionisio, honouring her as a prominent figure of culture and democratic life in Portugal and presents condolences to her family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u160	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absences of the PAN and L were recorded.]] Following the Vote Project No 357 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ), regretting the death of Lidia Sales, co-founder of the Lusopress group. To read it, I give the floor to Mrs. Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u161	Madam President, let me read: « He died last May 21st, Lídia Maria Pinheiro Sales Gomes de Sá, born in 1954 in Penha de France, Lisboa, co-founder of the Lusopress press group, which promotes events associated with the valorization of Portuguese and the name of Portugal in the communities. The group, which is based in Paris, was led with a great spirit of complicity along with her husband, José Gomes de Sá. Lídia Sales was a generous woman and a pillar of the group's entire activity, playing the role of director of the Lusopress magazine, which has a very important role in the valorization of Portuguese and Lusodescendants who stand out in the business, associative or cultural domains, particularly in France, having as the motto “Joining the Portuguese”, and through which he also disseminated many solidarity initiatives. Particularly focused on the business dimension, the magazine has always made known many dozens of Portuguese citizens or Portuguese citizens who would otherwise have become anonymous, not allowing themselves to know the importance they often have in their fields of activity and the invaluable contribution they make to valuing the name of Portugal. Lídia Sales moved from Paris to Lisbon precisely for the accomplishment of the 12. the edition of Portuguese Valor, one of the initiatives that most designed the group, but has already been able to follow the event remotely, conditioned by the disease. It was posthumously honoured by the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, having been thanked with the Order of Merit, on the very day the funeral ceremonies were held. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, laments the death of Lydia Sales and sends her deepest condolences to the family, friends and collaborators of Lusopress. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u162	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absences of the PAN and L were recorded.]] Some relatives and friends of Eduarda Dionisio and Lidia Sales are present, to whom I want to address the sentiments of condolences, on behalf of the Bureau and the House. Now, let's do a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now have the Vote Project No 352 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Greetings by the National Bomber Day. I ask Secretary Maria of the Rosinha Light to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u163	Madam President, I shall read the deliberative part: « On the occasion of the National Fire Day, in 2023, the Assembly of the Republic signs this date, greets and expresses its tribute to all Portuguese firemen and, in particular, to the victims in the exercise of their mission, making vows to finally be given the real steps necessary for their dignity and valorization. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u164	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, registering the absences of the PAN and L.]] Following the Vote Project No 356 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport) — Greetings to the National Body of Listening - Portuguese Catholic Escutism ( CNE ) by 100. the anniversary of its foundation. I ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u165	Madam President, let me read: « Founded in 1907, in England, by Baden-Powell, escutism is a world movement that aims to provide children and young people with global training so that they become responsible and participatory citizens in their communities. The National Body of Listening - Portuguese Catholic Escutism (CNE ) was founded on May 27, 1923, in Braga, by Archbishop D. Manuel Vieira de Matos and by Dr. Avelino Gonçalves, celebrating this year's 100. the anniversary. This movement has been growing and spreading throughout the territory, being a non-profit, residential and non-governmental association based on a model of non-formal education, intended for the integral formation of children and young people, based on the method created by Robert Baden-Powell and on the volunteering of its members. The history and activity of the NEC deserved recognition as an institution of public utility ( 1983 ), as well as various decorations, highlighting the Medal of Good Sports Services, the Order of Merit, awarded by the former President of the Mário Soares Republic ( 1992 ), the Order of Infante D. Henrique, awarded by the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio ( 1997 ) and the Order of Public Instruction, granted by the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa ( 2022 ). at a time when fraternity, solidarity, humanism and sustainability are increasingly important in our society, it is imperative to honor the greatest youth association in Portugal, with about 72,000 scouts, distributed by more than 1030 groups, in 20 regions, when it commemorates 100 years of its presence in our country. Thus within the framework of 100. the anniversary of the National Body of Listening - Catholic Escutism Portuguese, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 - Address the congratulations to the National Listening Body - Portuguese Catholic Escutism for 100 years at the service of the country; 2 - Greet all the elderly lobes, sculptors and volunteers by this historical framework, recognizing the contribution of the CNE to the construction of an authentic school for the life of thousands of Portuguese children and young people, making vows that their sense of mission, self-denial and joy continue to contribute to the construction of a more just and humanist society. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u166	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PSD, CH and IL were adopted unanimously and acclamation, and the absences of the NAP and L were recorded.]] The ladies and gentlemen. Members anticipate the information that the Bureau would give, that they are present, and would like to welcome them, but have already had a very expressive and spontaneous greeting, the 688 Grouping of Alhos Vedros ; the 773 Grouping of Póvoa de Santa Iria ; the Grouping of Santo André - Barreiro ; and the 1008 Grouping of Forte da Casa. We then proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 58 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Review the legal regime for explosives and dangerous substances. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the BE, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Resolution Project No. 624 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By the creation of the national water network. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and BE abstained.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 313 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Completion of Special Public Water Albueira Programmes. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 564 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Agenda for Action for Water in Portugal. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the BE and the abstention from the CFP.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 759 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Creates the child's provider. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of the CH, IL and BE and the abstention from the CFP.]] We then vote in general on Resolution No 638 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government allow families to choose the daycare and improve the Creche Felis programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 660 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government set up a awareness-raising campaign for the adoption of children and young people of different ages. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL and BE and the abstention of the CFP.]] The draft resolution goes down to 1. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution No. 661 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government allow the conversion of kindergartens into day care. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the BE and the abstention from the CFP.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 647 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the CFP and the BE and the IL abstained.]] The general vote of Bill No 770 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Replacement of family allowance steps for children and young people, with a view to their universality. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of the CH, the PCP and the BE and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 784 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the child provider. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH and BE and abstentions against the IL and the CFP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 786 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Creates the child's provider. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL and the CFP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 723 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL and the PCP and with abstentions from the PS, the CH and the BE.]] This draft resolution thus goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 577 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the final procedure for the completion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. [[Subject to the vote, the absences of the NAP and L were approved unanimously.]] This draft resolution is down to 2. the Commission. Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u167	It is to be said that, in relation to this Resolution Project No 577 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), we will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 741 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — A system for the sharing of hybrid insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion systems in order to increase the quality of life of people with type 1 diabetes. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 620 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Total participation in the hybrid system or adjustment of automatic insulin administration based on continuous monitoring of glucose. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE.]] Mrs. Susana Amador asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u169	Mr President, to announce a declaration of vote by the parliamentary group in the framework of these two projects we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u170	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 693 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to combat hate speech on the Internet. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CFP and the BE, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PS and the IL.]] This draft resolution thus goes down to 1. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution No 657 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Establishment of codes of conduct and an independent structure of support for the victim and complaint in the event of harassment in higher education institutions. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the CH, the CFP and the BE and with abstentions from the PS, the SDP and the IL.]] This draft resolution goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u171	Madam President, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u172	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u173	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u174	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 743 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Creates the legal type of crime of sexual harassment and qualified sexual harassment, reinforcing the legal protection of victims. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP were rejected, votes against the BE and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u175	To say that, in relation to Bill No. 743 / XV / 1. a ( BE), we will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u176	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Moreira asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u177	Madam President, to announce a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Alexandra Leitão and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u178	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 778 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures compliance with the Istanbul Convention by strengthening the protection of victims in the event of sexual harassment. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, IL, PCP and BE and votes in favour of the CH were rejected.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 686 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government create strategies to deduce situations of moral and sexual harassment in higher education. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE and the PS abstention.]] Therefore, this draft resolution goes down to 8. the Commission. Mrs. Susana Amador asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u179	Madam President, to announce a statement of vote on draft resolutions No 657 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and 686 / XV / 1. a ( IL).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u180	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now turn to the general vote on the Bill No 16 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, repealing the tax benefits allocated to political parties. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD and PCP and with votes in favour of CH, IL and BE.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 701 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the extension of the general scheme for the allocation of financial support to agricultural, livestock, fisheries and aquaculture sectors and the extension of the validity of the professional gas oil mechanism provided for in Decree-Law No 28 -A / 2023 of 3 May to Azores and Madeira. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries, on draft resolution No 691 / XV / 1, follows. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary procedures with a view to the urgent construction of a new structure of the existing units at the Pranto River. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL and PCP and the abstention of BE.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, on the Proposal for a Law No 39 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Clarify the intervention of municipalities in the procedures for the construction, expansion or modification of an aerodrome. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CH, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions from the PSD and IL.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on Bill No. 659 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to lay down the car insurance policy. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the PCP and the BE, against the CH and the abstention from the PSD.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on Bills Nos 459 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the statutes of the Climate Action Council established by the Climate Bases Act ( Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December ) and 558 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Establishs the composition, organization, operation and status of the Climate Action Council. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, IL and BE and votes against CH and the PCP.]] Mr Duarte Alves asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u181	Madam President, to announce a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 64 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2021 / 514 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, votes against the PCP and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL and BE.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment and Energy, on draft resolution No 405 / XV / 1, follows. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the Basic Climate Law, as approved by Law No 98 / 2021 of 31 December and carry out the procedures in this respect under its competence. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and BE and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL and the CFP.]] We turn to the final overall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 618 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Operationalization of a working group for the implementation of an integrated solution for the collection, treatment and enhancement of the effluents of pig husbandry, with a view to protecting the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, IL and BE, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u183	Madam President, I wanted to correct the vote on draft resolution No 660 / XV / 1. a ( IL), in which the vote on the CFP is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-06-02.u184	It does not alter the result, but it is recorded, Mrs. We thus conclude our agenda. I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the fact that our next plenary meeting is on Tuesday, 6, at 3 p.m. the first point is the current debate required by BE on the theme « Education and government failures in public school ». The second point deals with the discussion of the Resolution Project No. 695 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create a programme of attracting remote workers to low-density territories. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for keeping quiet so that I can give the information to the House. [[Pause.]] of the third point is the general assessment of Bill Nos 183 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For payment of 100 % disease allowance for cancer patients and for parents of children with cancer, 26 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the right of follow-up to young people in health care facilities at the time they reach 18 years of age, amending Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March, 794 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Guarantees the payment to 100 % of the disease allowance in situations of cancer and the allowance for assistance to minor children in cancer, amending Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 803 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the payment of the disease allowance for situations of tuberculosis and chronic diseases, including oncological disease, by amending Decree No 28 / 2004 of 4 February and 806 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Increased disease allowance for serious, chronic or cancer patients ( Sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004 ), together with Draft Resolution No 13 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen protection measures for children and young people with cancer. The fourth point deals with the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No. 324 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the subsidisation scheme applicable to maritime cabotage between the islands of the Azores and Madeira and between them and the continent and 798 / XV / 1. a (CH) — establishes the maritime cabotage subsidy programme between the Azores and Madeira archipelagos and between them and the continent, and establishes conditions for access to it. Now, we're done with our session. I wish everyone a good weekend. See you Tuesday. [[It was 12 hours and 12 minutes.]]
