ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We are in a position to begin our work, and I therefore declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. The next item is the opinion of the Censorship Motion No 2 / XV / 1. a (IL) — In defence of the institutions and by the end of the political, economic and social degradation to which the Government has led the country. Quiet request to the House. [[Pause.]] For everyone to have a precise notion of the structure of the debate, there will be a period of openness, when the Liberal Initiative will present its motion, following the intervention of the Prime Minister. After that opening period, requests for clarification regarding the interventions of the Liberal Initiative and the Prime Minister will be made by each parliamentary group of up to 5 minutes to formulate the first request for clarification, from which the rule of two minutes will apply. Speakers to whom clarifications are requested will freely manage how to respond to them. Let us, then, start the debate on this motion of censure, so I ask everyone to hear as much noise as possible. To open the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone already knows that the Liberal Initiative believes that the PS Government is a bad government for Portugal. Since we entered this Parliament, our criticisms and our alternative proposals have been a constant one. But last week, the Liberal Initiative decided to present the motion of censure that is being discussed here today, something that we do not take lightly. It is no longer just a criticism of the government to change policies, it is an appeal to this Parliament and the country to change from government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u4	So it is important to start by explaining why now. Why stop asking for new policies to ask for a new government, and a new government now? The answer is simple: in the face of the evidence of these nine months of absolute majority, we no longer believe that this government is able to renew itself and to catch up, be able to avoid the continued degradation of public life and political life, the degradation of the social and economic conditions of the Portuguese and, ultimately, the degradation of democracy. More serious is that every day the situation will only tend to get worse, making it more difficult to reverse it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u6	The government is no longer just incompetent, the government has become a source of instability. This motion of censure is therefore our way of saying to Parliament and the country: “No, ” to incompetence! “ No, ” to instability! We need a new government, and we need it now! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Applause from the IL.]] The results of these nine months of absolute majority give to assess the degree of incompetence of this government. We have incompetence in the management of public services, starting in health, where the collapse is in sight of everyone, or rather, is being lived by all, especially those who have no alternative to the SNS (National Health Service). In November, resorting to the Transparency Area of the SNS Portal, there were already more than 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor, more than twice as much as in 2017, a year after the Prime Minister promised that everyone would have a family doctor. With regard to the waiting lists, also using the SNS Portal, there are two particularly dramatic examples. In surgery, the waiting time for oncologic neurosurgery in Santa Maria is 695 days, almost two years. What is the maximum response time guaranteed? It's 60 days, 12 times less! As for examples of late consultations, for normal cardiology at Hospital Sousa Martins, in Guarda, waiting is 1433 days – almost four years for a cardiology consultation! — the maximum response time guaranteed 150 days. It's almost 10 times more! There is complete chaos in emergencies, with successive closures, in winter because it's cold, in summer because there's vacation. Temporary solutions become final, as in the case of maternity, in which the head himself, Prof. Ayres de Campos, says that the solution cannot only be temporary as it is not defensive in a European country. As regards debts to SNS suppliers, once again using the Transparency Area of the SNS Portal, in November there were more than EUR 2400 million of debts in hospitals and EUR 1081 million of debts to the pharmaceutical industry, i.e. EUR 3500 million. This is much more than the debt that the troika, which the PS called to Portugal, found in 2011. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u7	Oh, the troika was missing here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u8	Mr Prime Minister, will this debt be reduced by some of the EUR 8 billion of taxes which it raised in 2022 over the previous year? Or will you continue to use Portuguese health as a mere budget tool? [[Applause from the IL.]] We have incompetence in education. More than 60 000 high school students have taken the school year without full hours and these tests of evaluation of basic education, which, we knew last week, compare 2019 to 2022, are a scandal. They are proof that they want us to believe that students have learned more from closed schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u9	It's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u10	... or, then, they want us to believe that there was a recovery of learning, something that definitely did not happen, because nothing was done. Thus, we are mortgageting the future of a whole generation and of the country itself. We have incompetence in social security. In addition to the attempt to deceive pensioners with a cut of EUR 1000 million from 2024, this government cut out special education subsidies and disability bonus, and only solved part of this problem a few weeks ago, probably because the Liberal Initiative resorted to the Ombudsman's Office on these scandalous cases. [[PS Members' laughs.]] Nor do the sovereignty functions escape the incompetence of this government : in justice, where ridicule has reached the peak of lack of role in the courts; in the restructuring of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), that no one knows where to; in the case of the informal teams of China in Portugal, which Mr. Prime Minister, in this Chamber, attempted to devalue and became a scandal at European level. And we have a huge incompetence in the management of the economy, which is in divergent trajectory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u11	Divergent? Oh, my God! Oh, for God's sake! Then I imagine what it was like in the '70s! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u12	Divergent, yes, from the European average. GDP (gross domestic product) per Portuguese head was 85 % of the European average in 2000 and last year, according to Eurostat's latest data, was 74 %. It was 85 % and rose to 74 %. If this, in the PS vision, is to converge, I'm going there and I'm coming! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is also divergent from the countries that have entered the European Union after us. This list must already be recorded on everyone's head: we have been overtaken by Czechia, Estonia, Slovenia, Hungary, Lithuania and Poland and we are 1 % overcome by Romania and 2 % exceeded by Latvia. Twenty years ago, these countries were 50 or 60 percentage points from us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u13	It's the IL paradises!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u14	It's a shame, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, not recognizing this is an even greater shame! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] The economy is divergent in productivity: 25 years ago it was 68 % of the European average and by 2020 it was 65 % of the European average, using Eurostat itself. And the most dramatic and shameful sign of all of this incompetence in the economy is that we have 4 and a half million Portuguese people who are either poor or at risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u15	And how was she with the troika?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u16	What greater testimony of incompetence do you want? In the middle of this dantesco scenario, António Costa prepares to announce with pump a budgetary shine for 2022. Mr. Prime Minister, if you are serious, you will say that the shine was from the Portuguese, who, in 2021, survived a record tax burden of 35, 8 %, remember that it would probably have been struck in 2022. I hope you will present the numbers of the tax burden with the same pump as you will announce those of the deficit. [[Applause from the IL.]] We also know that it will announce with pump the growth of GDP in 2022. And once again, if it is serious, you will remember with the same pump as GDP in Portugal, in 2020, fell 8, 3 %, the biggest fall in the European Union. With all this, it is not surprising that our most qualified young people immigrate in mass. Portugal now has more than 20 % of its population living outside the European Union. The worst thing is that these emigrants don't want to come back anymore, or rather, they don't see any reason to come back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u17	It's... and they were coming that didn't hurt in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u18	And no wonder: the INE (National Institute of Statistics) tells us that 50% of Portuguese workers earn less than €950 per month, I repeat, less than €950 per month — another statement of incompetence, if still necessary. If you think it's only the Liberal Initiative that this government considers incompetent, I suggest that you see the World Competitiveness Center's 2022 report of the International Institute for Management Development,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u19	Isn't that The Economist anymore?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u20	...in which the number of respondents who listed the competence of the government as a factor of attraction of the country was... zero! Nothing, ball, zero! [[Applause from the IL.]] « What report? ' — you are asking. That report that the PS used to quote with great pride when it worked out, but for which this year he didn't even open the kiss. Why? Because it shows that Portugal has fallen from position 36 to 42, the biggest fall since this index exists. There is no doubt: the trajectory of the Portuguese economy is divergent because the government is incompetent! [[Applause from the IL.]] All this obvious incompetence now joins the fact that the PS Government has become a source of instability. In almost 50 years of democracy, we have never seen an absolute majority being broken so quickly. At 11 resignations in nine months - a succession of cases - yes, Prime Minister, cases, they are not houses invented by opposition or by social communication. The case of the former Secretary of State Alexandra Reis is only the last episode of a long series, and perhaps we still do not know the final chapters of it,... [[There has been!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u21	... as the role of Mr. Minister of Finance and as the responsibility of executive management in the Portuguese Air Transport ( TAP ) in this episode. We had the case of the EUR 3 million to pour out in the works of the Military Hospital of Belém and the subsequent indigitation of Alberto Coelho for EMPORDEF ( Portuguese Defense Company ), which the Minister of Defence at this time, in this Chamber, failed to explain. We had the case of Pedro Nuno Santos' office on the Lisbon airport, in which no one understood why the Minister did not resign, nor was he resigned. We have had the case of the Minister of Economy's public disauthorisations — by his own colleagues of government, say — when he wanted to cross-borderly lower taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u22	They don't even rule the party, how much more the country! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u23	We had the case of the appointment of Miguel Alves to Under-Secretary of State, when he was already accused in two cases. It was only 55 days in office, but if the Prime Minister had thought, even if it was 55 minutes, he had at least avoided this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u25	And today, let's see if the new Secretary of State for Agriculture is not going to become another case. Important point in this regard: I could cite many more cases, but all of these I quoted — all! — occurred after the discussion of the last motion of censure last July.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u26	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u27	To all these cases and to all this instability, the Prime Minister and the PS have still resolved to bring together an increasing arrogance of absolute majority, summarized in the great expression « get used! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, we're not getting used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u29	The one who is known as the parliamentary compressor roll has so far refused 21 hearings in these nine months.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u30	And how many?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u31	I didn't do the math, but they suspect they're already more than in all the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u32	And how many?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u33	And finally, they resort easily and apparently with some taste to insult to opposition. All this because António Costa decided to form a government more concerned about internal struggles for its own succession than with the country. In other words, this government will continue to be a source of instability. So in summary: it was clear that we had an incompetent government, and now we also know that we have a government that is a source of instability. We already know what they say about this motion of censure and, therefore, we have already left the answer here, not to spend too much time on useless debate. They say it's just a political maneuver. It's not! It is the parliamentary tool that we have to demonstrate that the best for the country and for the Portuguese is even going to elections, it is even changing from government. This is our conviction, and that is why we tabled this motion of censure. [[Applause from the IL.]] Some say, more or less useful to PS, that it is an inconsequential initiative, because it will not be approved. Look at some history, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I think this is 32. the motion of censure to be presented in the Portuguese Parliament, in the Portuguese democratic Parliament. of these, only one was approved. Is it because it is not approved that it becomes inconsequential? None would have been presented. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] to those who want to change the government, I say, don't be afraid. Some even tell us that, especially when there is an absolute majority, it makes no sense to present motions of censure. Good notion of democracy, to these useful appendices of the Socialist Party! They also say that the IL is in transition of leadership. Do not worry about the transition of leadership of the IL, we will be prepared, so others, in this House, also be and stop being always waiting for electoral calculations or seeking refuge in the skirts of the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the IL.]] Some say that the motion is irresponsible and comes at a bad time, because there is a crisis, there are huge challenges and uncertainty. They're looking the other way around! It is precisely because we have enormous challenges and because we face enormous uncertainties that it is irresponsible to keep this government in office one day more than that. The worst thing that can happen is not going to elections, we have another four years of this incompetent and unstable government. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal cannot continue on this path, it cannot continue any more day, I repeat, incompetent and unstable. We have to change before it is too late and the Liberal Initiative will not wait for neither the President of the Republic, who will make his own reading or the electoral calculations that some people are waiting for the stars to align themselves. The Liberal Initiative is not afraid of elections, it is not afraid of democracy, it trusts the Portuguese and asks the Portuguese to trust us, because Portugal cannot wait. We need to change the government and we need to change it now! [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u34	To intervene in the opening of the debate, Mr Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today the Assembly of the Republic is discussing a motion of censure to the Government. It is a motion of censure presented by the resignation leader of the Liberal Initiative,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... which seeks to dismiss the leadership of the Liberal Initiative by seeking to overthrow the legitimate Government of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u36	And do it right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u37	Just one year ago, the Portuguese were called upon to resolve a real political crisis. A political crisis which resulted from the lead, by all the oppositions, of the State budget for 2022 and the dissolution of this Parliament by the President of the Republic. Less than a year later, the leader of the Liberal Initiative proposes not only that there be elections in the Liberal Initiative, but that the country be called again to repeat the elections, in which the Liberal Initiative was defeated about a year ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] My answer, our response, to the resignations, to those who wish and cause instability is the determination to ensure what is essential: the stability of policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u38	The stability of poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u39	... irrespective of personal vicissitudes or organic imbalances that occur in government. We have been elected with a programme, it is with this programme that we have to govern. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second question which naturally arises is the following: is there a more stable alternative than the one that the current government offers? The answer is previously announced because, as we know, not even in the censorship of the right government can be understood to censor the government as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third question is obvious: then, how has this majority exercised power? As we said on the night of the elections, an absolute majority is an absolute responsibility, the responsibility to rule well and in dialogue with society as a whole. And in nine months, what do we have to present?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u40	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u41	Almost nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u42	We have to present a medium-term agreement in the context of social dialogue, as it has not been signed for decades and it offers economic operators predictability and stability in the evolution of fiscal policy, increased productivity and increased income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What do we have to present? We have to present a medium-term agreement with the public administration unions which guarantees the entire Public Administration the valorization of careers and wages on the horizon of this legislature until 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What do we have to present? We have to present a government that, with a majority in the Assembly of the Republic, was able to negotiate with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities the realization of the most important reform of the state of the last decades, through the decentralization of such difficult areas as education, health and social action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH and IL protests.]] This is a decentralization made in agreement and in dialogue, a decentralization that means sharing power. For those who fear that the absolute majority will abuse power, because here they have an absolute majority that shares power with those directly elected by the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What about the parliamentary level? At parliamentary level, we have kept the channels of open dialogue with all those in the democratic field who want to dialogue with us. You could begin by quoting the example of having been able to obtain, with the current leader of the PPD / PSD, an agreement on the methodology for the definition of the public work because for decades the State has been unable to make a decision, or even to understand itself, about the methodology and the path to be followed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH and IL protests.]] I could recall that only in the votes of the last State budget were more opposition proposals approved than in previous State budgets and supplementary budgets submitted by the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Truly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a number that needs to be taken into account: 21 legislative acts proposed by this Government have so far been approved by the Assembly of the Republic. of the 21 approved proposals, only one third had the PS's exclusive votes and two thirds had the PS's vote with at least other Members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] As Prime Minister, I cannot of course fail to be aware of the fact that the Liberal Initiative's demission leader is concerned with problems in the government. Thank you very much! But my role as Prime Minister is not only to solve problems that arise in the government, but above all to worry about the problems affecting Portuguese. These are problems that really count for political life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] I have the deep conviction and I can assure that until today I have never been asked on the street by any citizen to ask me whether A or B was or was not a State Secretary, whether C or D had stopped being a State Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u43	But the President of the Republic has already called into question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u44	What people ask me is, for example, how to respond to rising cost of living. And to these citizens what I am responding to is with the action of the Government : fuels rise up and we adopt measures to reduce VAT ( value added tax ), or to neutralise the increase in VAT, or to reduce the ISP ( oil product tax ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] With these measures, we guarantee that, in a deposit of 50 l of petrol, there are less than 16 € paid by the citizens and, in a deposit of 50 l of gas, there are less than 17, 9 € paid by the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u45	Don't tell anyone that! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u46	People are concerned about increasing the price of light and that is why we negotiated with Spain the Iberian mechanism and injected into the regulatory system as a whole EUR 4500 million. As a result, a regulatory entity came to say this week that an average family with two children will pay in 2023 minus 500 € in the bill of light than it would pay if these measures had not been adopted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese families are concerned with the increase in the interest rates of the credits and therefore we have approved a diploma to oblige banks to renegotiate the credits whenever the ability of families to respond to the stress tests to which they were subjected is concerned. People are actually concerned about the functioning of the National Health Service and that is why we, with all the measures we have taken, ensure that there were more 3, 2 million consultations last year in primary health care than in 2015, more 644,000 consultations in hospitals than in 2015 and more 83,000 surgeries than in 2015. That's what we're investing in Portuguese money, i.e. improving the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, yes, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, we have adopted measures to reduce late debts and, in the last week of the year, we have paid EUR 1040 million of late debts from the National Health Service to start with zero debts this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are these, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems that concern the Portuguese, and that is why it is essential that we act to control prices and continue a path of sustained improvement in income. That is why the national minimum wage rises above inflation. That is why average pensions rise above inflation, taking into account the measures we have taken on extraordinary support and the annual increase. That is why all minimum social benefits rise above inflation. We must respond to this increase in the shortage of life by controlling, on the one hand, the increase in prices and increasing, on the other hand, the available income of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I ask: how does a government really assess itself? By its composition or by its results?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u47	For both of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u48	So let's go for the results and the activity. We are now focusing on the results and, of course, on economic growth: in 2022, Portugal was 2. the country of the European Union which has grown the most. We have had the greatest economic growth since 1990 and, according to international comparisons that they so like in the last seven years, we have reduced the difference for France by 2, 6 percentage points, the difference for Germany by 3, 8 percentage points, the difference for Spain by 7, 1 percentage points. Yes, we are closer to the most economically developed countries in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] Let's say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that with our policies we do not attract investment. For last year, in 2022, despite all uncertainty, despite the war between January and September, we kept the record increase in business investment — EUR 24 billion, an amount that has never existed since there were records. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Public debt was reduced last year by 10 percentage points, one of the largest ever reductions in our public debt, which removed us from the podium of the three largest public debts in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Knowing that this is not the most relevant macroeconomic criterion for the Liberal Initiative, but that it is certainly the most relevant for Portuguese families last year we had 4, 9 million employees, we had the maximum employment in our history, a minimum unemployment rate and, very important, 80 % of contracts without term, having had an effective decrease in precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must conclude: the Government maintains stable policies on the basis of which it has committed itself to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u49	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u50	The government continues to be focused on identifying and responding to as far as possible to the many problems that Portuguese people are facing today with the inflationist crisis. The Government maintains its continuing economic growth, job protection, investment growth, export growth and certain accounts as a guarantee of the stability of the future of Portugal. And we do this with the same determination that in 2022 we exceeded the goal that was set for the implementation of the funds of Portugal 2020 and concluded the negotiation of all the programmes of Portugal 2030. at this moment we have already awarded two thirds of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), which is in motion and moving will continue,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the government standing firm in the implementation of its policies and fulfilling and honouring the commitments with the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u51	Just those palms? Oh, my God! More!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u52	We've won!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u53	Let us then proceed to the requests for clarification. Mr Cotrim Figueiredo has two requests for clarification and has informed the Bureau that he wishes to respond to them together. The first request for clarification shall be made by Mr João Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u54	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, although it does not look like it, the legislative elections took place less than 11 months ago. The government has taken possession of it for nine months. to the Socialist Party, the Portuguese entrusted an absolute majority and the people guaranteed the PS all the conditions to rule in a stable manner. Contrary to the expectable, at a hallucinating pace, we are confronted with government scams in the good style of a television drama series. Even today, in the past of agriculture, the State secretary has not yet sprouted and the crop rotation is already known. [[IL Members' laughs.]] The government wants to believe that people's lives are not real, that people's lives are part of a fiction, a series. The cause of the government drama has to do with the socialist "war of throne". This war of succession to the socialist throne, with many similarities to the original series, revolves around a battle between the kingdoms of the various dominant families, who fight unbridledly for political control and survival during the « coming winter». [[PSD applause.]] The horror of this series has already taken several seasons. Invariably, the victims are always the same: the Portuguese. of the two, one : either the government changes its life and breaks the « ice wall » that separates it from the Portuguese or does not reach winter, because the Portuguese will change from government. António Costa, a high position, says to the people: « Get used to it! » — they get used to a seriously ill health system; they get used to schools without teachers; they get used to a country with the forest to burn, but which, according to the algorithm, can burn much more; they get used to impoverishment. PSD is not a protest party. PSD is a party that wants to be a government. The PSD is a party with responsibility and a party with responsibility does not ask for elections from year to year. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. João Cotrim, we know that we both censor the government, but what makes us different, as you said in your speech, is that you want elections already and the PSD does not. The PSD believes that there is no time for the third elections in three years. This is the time of the government to return to the Real Country and rule. If you don't get it, you'll have to shoulder your responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u55	The second request for clarification lies with Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u56	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, the motion of censure of the IL is an exercise of revenge on the retarder. It evokes the history of the last seven years, forgetting what the Portuguese were saying during those seven years. This motion is useless, even the PSD recognizes it. in this, the PSD is right: a motion of censure is useless when there is no political alternative. And the PSD knows for its own sake that there is no political alternative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, in fact, will only serve for a historical irony, which is to see the liberals and the miguelists vote side by side, something that should embarrass the true liberal politicians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let's be fair: what IL says matters. Why does it matter? Oh, my God! Because the PSD, to the lack of its own creation, imitates the bricks of the IL. Romania has lost 17% of the population in recent years, has significantly lower wages than Portugal, an average life expectancy lower than Portugal, a infant mortality rate that is more than twice ours, a risk of poverty higher than ours. But the IL thinks Romania is an example and the PSD goes back!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u57	Eldorado is Romania! You've come to be the Eldorado!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u58	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what moves us is not the satisfaction of what is being done. What we're moving is what we need to do, that's what we're doing. That is why the IL wanted to bring the government down immediately and wanted elections now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u59	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u60	It was precisely to block this category of irresponsibilities that the people chose this majority and it is in the exercise of this popular mandate that we will chum this motion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But IL's speech also brings a great deal of personalized attacks to members of this government. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u61	I want to be clear about this: these ministers and ministers who are here and all the others who have served in the governments of Antonio Costa are in public life because of the common good. [[CH protests.]] No one has been, or is, out of greed, no has been, or is, to win the video. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u62	They may not have an X-ray to detect at a distance a greedy, and that may even mean that our institutions lack this mechanism, but walking in politics for greed is incompatible with us, abhors every card socialist or belief. [[CH and IL rice.]] I know you laugh at those who despise greed. We know that, but that's why with us you won't pass. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm done, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, with a specific question about greed. You're going to submit a proposal to the IL... [[CH protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have screamed a lot not to hear what others are saying, but we realize it's uncomfortable! We got it! But listen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Will IL present any proposal to go further than the medium-term agreement with social agreement to reduce wage disparities in companies, without prejudice to public undertakings in relation to private undertakings? I would like you to answer that to know whether IL really has greed as a defect or as a virtue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u63	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u64	Mr President, I thank Mr. João Moura and Mr. Porfirio Silva for the questions they addressed to me. With Mr. João Moura I am not going to spend too much time because I think the PS would very much like this debate to be a kind of fight between the IL and the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u65	That's what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u66	We disagree with many things, we disagree with the sense of vote that you have decided to choose for this motion of censure, but you are not the opponent of the IL. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD.]] But he asked me a question and I do not resist returning the question to him, until he formulated it in cinematic terms, based on the series The War of the Thrones. I want to ask you what the PSD, saying it's not election time, is waiting for it to happen. What evidence of the 'winter' is waiting for it to happen to defend that it is time for elections? It is because the "white walkers" of poverty and the disintegration of public services have arrived, Mr Deputies. They're here! [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, I have already seen you in a better way, I must say. Revenge? Oh, my God! [[Rice from IL.]] Revenge of what? You have to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u67	You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u68	Is that what you're saying and I have to explain it to you? Oh, my God! OK, it's answered. Okay, then we'll talk outside, around a coffee. What's the payoff? Oh, my God! This extraordinary thing has been said: Liberals and miguelists — they must be here on my left — will vote together, which is a shame. Do you know which party most often voted alongside the PS in the last budget votes? [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u69	You know? Guess what? It's not too hard. You were the miguelists, Mr. Deputies, you were the miguelists! [[Applause from the IL.]] It brings us this extraordinary information: we have a government with no longer know how many members — it must again be the greatest government of all time, or it must have been, I haven't done it again — it's all impolite, no one is doing for the video, no one is greedy. But what do ministers need? They need X-rays. If it's a matter of having money for equipment in the National Health Service, there won't be. An X-ray slot machine, sir? Oh, my God! Tell me what that is! It is enough to look at the curriculum of the people and not appoint people who have already been accused, who are accused in proceedings and who have just received compensation of half a million euros. It's simple. I don't finish this speech without making a repair to Mr. Prime Minister, who probably...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u70	It's better to answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u71	I was already waiting for the subject... [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you mind? Oh, my God! [[PS and CH protests.]] I had already hoped that Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u72	I ask for silence so that we can hear the speaker. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u73	I had already hoped that Mr. Prime Minister would use the condition of the transition of leadership in the Liberal Initiative to make politics. According to your interpretation, someone who is not relegated to a position loses political rights, the authority to criticize...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u74	That's not what was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u75	...and to draw attention to a number of matters in which, I take advantage of, I would say, I did not give a single one. Therefore, when asking whether the government should be evaluated by the results or by its composition, the answer is obviously by both, because the composition is in disintegration and the results are the misery I have had opportunity to explain. [[Applause from the IL.]] That is why, without revenge, no political calculations, no alignment with anyone, we firmly believe that this is the time to change government. That time is now. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u76	We are now passing on to the requests for clarification to the Prime Minister, who are 13, and the Bureau is informed that the Prime Minister will answer one by one to the first eight and then to all the others. I would like to draw your attention to the management of the available intervention time. The first request for clarification is from the Liberal Initiative. To that end, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, since he took possession of Portuguese GDP seven years ago, it has grown 15 %, about half of what has grown in the cohesion countries, such as Estonia, Poland, Lithuania or Romania. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u78	in that same period, Ireland grew by about 50 %. This is not just numbers thrown into the air, this has a real impact on people's lives. This means that if your government, since 2016, had managed to make the country grow as much as the other cohesion countries, by this time, a person who wins 1200 € would earn about 1400 €. If I had managed to make the country grow as much as Ireland, only in the last 7 years—it's not in the last 30 years, it's in the last 7 years! —, a person who wins 1200 € today would earn about 1600 €. It would be more than € 6000 per year. It was €6000 per year that these Portuguese lost, as a result of wrong policies; €6000 that the Portuguese lost because their government prefers to rule for the propaganda of the present and not for the growth of the future; €6000 lost because Mr. Prime Minister mounts governments not to think about the challenges of the country but to think about the internal challenges of his party. In exchange for these €6000 that the Portuguese could earn more, if we had followed other policies, what does your government have to give them? Oh, my God! A stamp of 125 €, when remaining money from the State Budget. But if the income of families increases little, the income of the state has not stopped rising. Next year, the State will have more than EUR 30 billion of revenue than when it took possession. I repeat, 30 billion! By coincidence, it is exactly 6000 € of revenue for each Portuguese that works. The 6000 € that the Portuguese could receive more, in fact, is the state that will receive them next year. But my question — and what are the Portuguese asking — is: where are these EUR 30 billion going? Education is not better, health is not better, safety is not better, pensioners are not better, so where are these EUR 30 billion going that the state earns more? Your Government, Prime Minister, is a black hole of incompetence, where more and more money comes in and where almost nothing comes out that improves the lives of the Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. Prime Minister, your governments have had a golden opportunity. You inherited a country recovered from the worst financial crises that went through, with balanced accounts after many years, with unemployment falling two years ago, with a commercial surplus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u79	Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u80	...with historically low interest rates for years...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u81	With salaries and pensions cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u82	... and is now receiving the largest package of European funds this century. We could have made a historic leap, we could have offered a different future to the new generation, but instead its government sinks the country even further. In view of an opportunity like this, all you interested in satisfying were the internal customers within your party, and this, Mr. Prime Minister, is unforgivable. [[PS Members' laughs.]] They will not forgive him or the young people, who have to leave the country, nor the older ones, who will spend their last years away from the children who emigrate and with the reform swallowed up by inflation. They tell us that the alternative is not prepared; therefore, I say that there is no one as badly prepared to rule the country as the PS... [[Applause from the IL.]] ... the PS that left the country in the swamp in 2001, which shot the country into the tank in 2011 and now has placed the country in a political mud. With all these resignations, we already know that Mr. Prime Minister regretted the government he chose, but, like Mr. Prime Minister, many Portuguese will certainly have regretted the government they chose a year ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u84	But still, they tell us to wait, they tell us that the PS should pick up the crisis that it planted to learn any lesson, but we will never accept that the Portuguese are collateral victims of any lesson that the PS needs to learn. [[Applause from the IL.]] We know that for every day as much as the PS goes through the government, it will be more of the thousands of Portuguese who will leave the country or who, if left, will not get out of poverty. Every day that passes with PS in power is a day when the turn is delayed for policies that work. Every day that passes is another missed opportunity for the country. For us, this country would not lose any more day and no more opportunity would be stolen from the young Portuguese by these policies. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u85	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo and Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I will make an effort to identify the concrete question addressed to me. Firstly, as far as growth is concerned, it is clear that we all have the ambition to be able to grow ever more and as far as possible. The comparison criterion that we may have is as follows: Portugal grew between 2000 and 2015 on average 0, 2 % per year. For 15 years, it was the average. It grew 0, 2%.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u87	And who was in the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u88	From 2016 to 2022, including with the brutal recession caused by the pandemic, Portugal grew, on average annually, 2 %, i.e., grew, on average, in these seven years, 10 times more than the annual average of the previous 15 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u89	I don't care! ...2 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u90	He'll say, it should be more. I should, but, look, 10 times more is quite relative to what's normal. It's only 10 times more than it had happened in the previous 10 years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you need to know who we want to compare with...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u91	With those who grew bigger!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u92	... and approach: do we want to compare ourselves with countries that have lost 17% of their population or do we want to compare ourselves and bring us closer to the countries that are in front of us and that are more developed? [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] I have no doubt: I want to get closer, Portugal wants to get closer, the Portuguese want to get closer to the ones that are most developed. And when we were approaching in these seven years, 2, 8 percentage points in France, 3, 6 percentage points in Germany or 7, 1 percentage points in Spain, we were approaching the most developed and over these seven years we have always grown above the European average. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u93	The others go faster!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u94	The honourable Member will say: they have grown above the European average, but they have done nothing more than your obligation. I don't even discuss this; I just say that in these seven years we only didn't grow above the European average at the peak of the cod in 2020. He knows that in the previous 15 years we only grew above the European average once, which was in 2009.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u95	Now it's worse with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u96	The difference is this. Let's look at the previous 15 years and these last seven years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what is important, Mr. Member, is that this growth has not been made, fortunately, with the policies of the Liberal Initiative,... [[Yeah, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u97	...because it is difficult to find a country in civilised Europe where your policies have been tested.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u98	How many do you want?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u99	What about Ireland? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u100	Coitados, in Ireland! If Ireland ever ruled as you wanted to rule, my God, poor Ireland! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] But we had a real case study—as they like to say—of what would be the application of your policies,... [[IL protests.]] ...that was that dynamic government of Mrs. Truss...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u101	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u102	... which, in three days, destroyed all liberal myths: the myth of fiscal shock, which caused the higher interest rate rise, the destruction of the pound and the obligation to redeem private funds from social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Tax shock, private funds of social security, monetary stability, all torn apart in three days by your policies. That is why, with our policies, not only has the country grown as average income increased by 19 %, the minimum wage has already risen by 40 %, the migration balance has reversed - since 2017 and, contrary to what they feared, growth is sustained in private investment - with a record maximum last year - in the growth of exports where, for the first time, 50 % of GDP has been in exports, and, above all, with employment, employment, employment, and employment of ever more and less quality and precarious employment. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u103	You now have the floor to make your request for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u104	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I confess that when I thought about this debate yesterday, I thought that the Liberal Initiative was in fact doing a great favor to the Government, because once the motion of censure was debated and voted, the case was closed and the Government had no more to answer. That is deeply wrong, because there are so many unanswered questions! But actually, this morning, when I read the papers, I could only think that it would be difficult for a Socialist Party government to do as many favors to the right as this government is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u105	Big Liberal Initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u106	In each case that is closed, each appointment that is made opens a new case. I do not want to discuss each of the cases here, but is it not absolutely unwise how the government has dealt with the appointments and the responsibilities of its members? Is it not absolutely unwise that, after resignation, on such a course of action as to explain, the first thing the government does in the new appointments is another appointment in which it needs to explain what, in fact, seems so inexplicable to most of the citizens of this country? How can these cases be explained? How can this misapplicability of the absolute majority be explained, this disapplicability of the Socialist Party to the public, to democracy, to its institutions? I heard the Prime Minister say now: forget the cases. What matters are the results, they mix us with the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u107	I didn't say that phrase!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u108	What a dangerous path, Prime Minister! What does this phrase tell us about the fight against corruption or about the commitment to democracy? Every time we think that Republican ethics or the need for transparency is indispensable, we are attacking the legitimacy of democracy itself, and that is what the government has done. And I also ask: what are the results? What are the results? It is that this populist discourse of "judge us for the results, let us do what we do" feeds the worst of populisms. And I register as the Socialist Party, who asked for an absolute majority and wants to always hold on to the dad of the extreme right, is the party that most feeds the extreme right with the cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u109	The far left is that you put them in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u110	The absolute disparity between the discourse of government successes and the difficulties of people's concrete lives is another dangerous way to withdraw legitimacy from democracy, to withdraw legitimacy from democratic debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u111	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u112	...is one of the most dangerous ways, and that was the choice of the Socialist Party. On the results, let us be clear: what results, after all? What results, when we have the greatest loss of real income for those who work, since the time of the troika?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u113	And I thought it was Salazar's!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u114	What results? And what results can differentiate this PS from the right? In fact, the cases are a favour to the right, because the right of politics cannot speak, because the right, like the Government, lives well with wages and pensions below inflation, because the right, like the Government, does not want to even hear about controlling prices or setting margins.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u115	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u116	Yeah, when it's poorer, better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u117	Yes, because the right, like the government, like gold visas and tax regimes that give benefits and make housing prices impossible for those who work here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u118	You guys like golden visas and local accommodation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u119	Yes, because the right one lives well with a health in which almost half of the budget goes to the private and in which there is no longer any public health planning capacity in Portugal. Yes, because the right is well associated with a school in which almost everything is missing and in which the daily, for students, for teachers and for the entire educational community is a kind of race of impossible obstacles. [[IL protests.]] The right has no alternative to this government, because the absolute majority of the Socialist Party is even very much like the right and fail at all in response to people's lives. But, Prime Minister, the questions are so many, so many, they are too many, and I am going back to the case that started this debate, which depoled this debate: we have a person who has been in the administration of the TAP, a public company, who leaves mid-term with half a million euros to go to another public entity with the same guardianship, and who is later appointed Secretary of State of the Treasury, who has financial protection for both the TAP and the NAV ( Air Navigation of Portugal ), and no one knew that he had received half a million euros. In the Ministry of Finance, no one saw anything. The Ministry of Finance has financial protection, but nobody knew anything. TAP, a public company, a public company with a regime of privilege for its administrators, but who fired, who cut wages and who needed, yes, public capital injections. And what does the government do? The Government believes that the matter is closed with the resignation of the Secretary of State, of a minister and of another Secretary of State, without reply, because the TAP privilege regime continues there. And as far as we know, it can continue, because no one assumes any responsibility. How did we get here? Who knew what? How does the shareholder assume, or not, his responsibilities? The Socialist Party, with its absolute majority, has led all the auditions, does not want to answer any questions, but I assure you that the whole country wants answers. The Left Block is going to fight for a parliamentary committee of inquiry that can give these answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u120	That's it! He's in! There are those who work more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u121	And, above all, Mr Prime Minister, I am sure that we do not accept populism against republican ethics, which tells us that there is no need for transparency or that the absolute majority can everything. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u122	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u123	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, which even delegitimises democratic debate is to invent a phrase which the opponent did not say to criticize. I did not say « do not evaluate us by the cases, evaluate us by the results». I asked if they wanted to evaluate us for composition or results. I didn't say cases didn't matter, and there are cases and homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u124	And cassions!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u125	The case you mentioned is relevant, and so when the Minister of Finance got to know him, he asked the Secretary of State to resign. And the honourable Member asks: "Who knew? Everyone already knows who knew, and who knew took the proper consequences of knowing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u126	And Mr. Prime Minister, didn't you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u127	The current Minister of Finance was not yet and the former Minister of Finance has already publicly explained that the Ministry of Finance was not aware of the payment of this compensation. [[CH and IL protests.]] He talked about today's case, and the explanation is in the newspaper itself. And I am very surprised that you are a Member of the Left Block, and that you are Mrs Catarina Martins, whom I think I know, to ask the question about the need to resign a woman from the government, because her husband is accused of a criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u128	He's putting words in my mouth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u129	Let's see: this case is particularly clear. We could still be in the scope of the investigation and, therefore, we do not know who was suspected, who was accused, and what was at stake, but not. in this specific case, the Public Prosecutor's Office has already investigated everything and certainly had access to all the information he wanted and could, to investigate. This is a case in which the Public Prosecutor's Office, having investigated everything — the accounts, the heritage, this and that — accused one person and only one person. So, let's go, I'll be replacing myself with the Public Prosecutor for a reason I don't have, I don't know and about which I don't know anything, unless you know something that I don't know, and I'm going to dismiss someone's wife because her husband is accused? We do not know whether the husband will be convicted, but there is one thing we know: the Secretary of State has not been accused of anything! So if you're not accused of anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u130	What about ethics?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u131	What is the case with ethics? Is it being married to someone who was accused? Does that question ethics? [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see the following: civilization in the world of justice has taken many centuries to build and there is no left-wing populism that causes my convictions on the fundamental principles of the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] You do not have to be a lawyer, you just have to have the minimum of a liberal and democratic political culture, to know that one of the basic principles of the rule of law is the personality of criminal responsibility. It's not because I commit a crime that my wife is guilty, that my son is guilty or that my mother is suspected. If I commit a crime, I'm the criminal and no one else is contaminated by any crime I've committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what I regret, Secretary of State,... [[Rice from PS, CH, IL and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u132	It's almost there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u133	... excuse me, Mrs. Member — it is also not offensive, even in my liberal criterion, it is not offensive —,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ... what I find very sad is that in the 21st century it is necessary to remind the leader of the Block of the Left of something that is a civilizational conquest that the Century of Lights has brought us more than two centuries ago, which is the rule of law, liberal and democratic, which is ours, that we cannot lie down in the window because we are afraid of populists. Don't fight the populists on the right being populist on the left, Mrs. Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I recommend that you see the interview that Mr. National Director of the Judicial Police gave yesterday to the RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), to know what the current and the previous governments, to which I chaired, have done to equip the Judicial Police with the necessary means to combat corruption. And ask, Mrs. Member, someone who knows the minimum history of our criminal law in recent decades to tell you who was the author of the framework of the legislation that typified the new type of crime of corruption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u134	Was it the Steps? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u135	... ending with the need for proof of the marked relationship between who gives and who receives, who created the mechanisms of procedural investigation that today actually allow to act procedurally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u136	That was Antonio Costa! Figueireto Dias e António Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u137	...who created it—see! — the standard referred to today in this paper, which provides for the preventive arrest of the property of those who are accused of the crime of corruption, because it is assumed that all the property obtained by those who are accused of corruption was unlawful and the burden of proof is reversed for the demonstration of the lawful origin of the property being arrested. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u138	Mrs Catarina Martins, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u139	To defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u140	Was it because it was called the State Secretary?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u141	Please, Your Honor. Do not forget to explain to what extent the honor of the bench has been offended. You've got up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u142	Mr President, Prime Minister, to escape the issues I have raised, he made a grave statement and accusation to the Left Block that this would not recognize the autonomy of women. This is an attack that we cannot accept, and that has been done. Mr. Prime Minister is making two mistakes. The first is to answer me with criminal matters when I have failed Republican ethics, and that is a worrying mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u143	But that's the republican ethic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u144	In fact, this government always believes that everything can happen as long as it is not a crime, even if it puts the public interest at risk, even if it undermines the confidence of the population in the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u145	And you call into question that kind of speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u146	Yes, we have public responsibilities that go far beyond criminals, that are demanding, that determine our lives, that determine both mine and their lives. Mr. Prime Minister knows that, and I realized I made an accusation that I didn't do him well, and that's not how he runs away from the problem. Secondly, it would be impossible to speak of a case which has been reported, because it takes into account the husband of a state secretary. in the same way that, in the case of a joint account, in which the two had availed themselves of the benefit and in which the woman was accused and the husband had only the name in the account, if he could question whether it was prudent—because that was the expression I used, that the government was unwise with this appointment— could also ask whether, in the current scenario, such appointment would have been prudent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u147	But is this a defense of honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u148	And yes, being a feminist means equality as a whole, and I'm not afraid to do any scrutiny, in any way, nor am I limited in my ability to vote. What Mr. Prime Minister tried to do was a solo accusation to the Left Block not to explain the huge unwiseness of making appointments after appointments that, even if criminally they have no problems, are really a problem for Republican ethics. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u149	To give explanations, if you wish, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, who has up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u150	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, when it comes to the adjective, it is because there is a little noun, and your language says all about the noun. Madam Member, what you have made very clear to everyone. What you did was say that someone who is married to a person who is accused cannot be a member of the government. What I say...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u151	No, you're saying the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u152	... is that I see no reason why Republican ethics imposes that a person who is not accused, to prove otherwise and having no suspicion that he is involved in the case, may or may not be a member of the Government. [[Protests of BE Members.]] I can also tell you that we asked the Secretary of State whether or not this joint account contained the amounts which, according to the newspaper, are part of the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What we are told is that it is not, that it is a joint account where only the incomes of work appear. Secondly, we asked him: "What about the tax statements you made about your income? , and the answer was « No, I declared all the tax returns of the work I lent. Do not keep on seeking. ” I have at first to trust the word of people, and I have no alternative either, because I am not the Public Prosecutor's Office, and therefore I cannot investigate the accounts. I don't have access to the tax statement, but I know one thing: we live in a state where the institutions exist and work, where the Public Prosecutor's Office is autonomous and, if he investigated everything and didn't accuse her and only accused him, it's because he understood that only he should accuse. If the Public Prosecutor didn't point anything at her and if, until now, nothing is known, I don't see why I'm going to point something out to her that I don't know. Unless you know something, and then, as we would say in American films, or say now, or shut up forever, or say when you know. Now, we're not going to put ourselves here on assumptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u153	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u154	I conclude, Mr. President. Nor do I have the slightest doubt that, if there is any breach of any obligation, the authorities will find out. And there is another thing that I do not have the slightest doubt: if Republican ethics is injured, the Secretary of State will be dismissed in the same way that, if I ever hurt Republican ethics, I myself will resign.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u155	It could be today!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u156	And don't talk about cases, because in the various government resignations there are very different situations: two people have unfortunately left because of illness;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u157	That doesn't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u158	... there were two ministers who resigned for political reasons; there were three State Secretaries who went out for readjustments; there was one who did so to understand that, according to Republican ethics, having been charged in a criminal proceedings, he should not be kept in office; and there was the case of a State Secretary in which the Minister of Finance found that there was a situation that could challenge republican ethics and asked the Secretary of State to immediately resign, and she immediately bored and immediately resigned. The truth is this, Mrs. Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u159	For a request for clarification, you now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u160	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the question that everyone should be concerned about today is whether the Government is indeed responding and focused on responding to the problems of the country, or whether, on the contrary, as you have done here, it continues to insist on denying them and, by denying them, it is also making them worse, taking options that do not serve the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u162	When he brings us a foreign and alien discourse from the reality that lives in our country, he is already making problems worse. The result is in sight. When required — and demanded — real increases in wages and pensions, what the government does is to concentrate wealth on economic groups and still sacrifice the purchasing power of families, it continues to promote precariousness. None of that changes! When required — and urgently so — price control is required, rather than taking the part of the people, of those who pay the bills, and not of speculative profits, the government chose exactly the opposite side of the one who should have chosen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u163	The largest increase in the last 20 years has been seen in favour of motorway and bridge dealers. When urgent measures are required to save the National Health Service, the government continues to devalue professionals and sponsor — sponsoring! — the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u165	When action is required to value public school, give conditions to its professionals, give conditions to teach and learn, the government insists on precariousness and degradation. When what was required for the TAP was a truly public management, the government goes in the opposite direction to privatize it. I don't know if we're all seeing the same reality. How many people this month won't be able to pay the rent or the bank's benefit? Mr. Prime Minister, in concrete options, what we see is a total coincidence with the options of the Liberal Initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u166	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u167	And, after all, what we have concluded is that it is much more what unites you than what separates you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u169	But the question I have to ask you is, above all, this one, and I finish: what do you have to say to workers and pensioners, that they lose purchasing power every day, and to nurses, teachers, users of public services? Is everything okay? Won't you do anything to fight the injustices, the inequalities that get worse, which deepen? Are you going to respond, with solutions that we have repeatedly brought, or do you assume that this government only wanted the absolute majority to benefit the economic groups? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u170	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u171	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, understands that in a debate resulting from a motion of censure presented by the Liberal Initiative to overthrow this Government, it is a bit difficult to say that the Liberal Initiative wants to overthrow the Government because the Government follows the policies of the Liberal Initiative. It's hard, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u172	In what?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u173	But the government does not deny the problems, the government seeks to respond to the problems. We know that Russia has waged a war against Ukraine and Russia's war against Ukraine — yes, it does not laugh, Mrs Deputy —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u174	That's what we all know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u175	... in addition to the thousands of deaths that have already caused in Ukraine, in addition to the brutal destruction of a country like Ukraine, in addition to being a threat to global peace, there are serious economic consequences, in particular, that we are experiencing the greatest inflation in the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u176	What about the excessive profits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u177	And in the face of this inflation, what has the government been trying to do? It has sought to act, of course, on the price side, which had two fundamental causes of rising: first, energy; secondly, what has to do with food production, particularly rations and fertilizers. We have zeroed the VAT on rations and fertilizers. from the point of view of energy, a set of measures was adopted. As the regulator still this week explained, for a family, a couple with two children who have a normal consumption of electricity this year, the electricity bill will be less than 500 € than would be without all these measures. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] For fuels, due to the measures we have taken, in a 50 l tank, depending on whether gas or petrol, it is paid less than €17 or less than €16 than would have been paid had we not adopted these measures. Then we act on the income side. First, for the most vulnerable, with an extraordinary support of €60, to respond to the increase in the food cabaz of the first quarter; then with more €60; then with 125 € per person, up to €2700; then with more €50 per child; then with half board for all pensioners; and then with a new extraordinary support of € 240, paid at the end of December. There are other support we can add. I am going to give you an example for higher education students: in December, we paid extraordinary support of 10 % of the annual scholarship this year to all higher education students, to cope with the shortage of life. From this month onwards, 42 € per month, we increased support for the accommodation of students in the pockets that are displaced. Therefore, we have sought to respond according to what is necessary, and the size of the problem is really very large.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u178	The people are ungrateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u179	That is why we have sought, and we have succeeded, a medium-term income agreement to ensure that from here to the end of the legislature everyone has, not only the recovery of purchasing power, as an effective gain of purchasing power, taking into account the brutal inflation that we live in 2022 and that, progressively, in 2023, will maintain a deceleration path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u180	For a request for clarification, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, 11 months ago, the Portuguese gave him an absolute majority. Nine months of government has passed, you have been Prime Minister for seven years, and your government is breaking down, you are in the process of ruin. It is a rare case of dysplicity, arrogance, pride and even some incompetence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u183	The Portuguese trusted themselves to rule alone and what the Portuguese received in return were two things: impoverishment and instability. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u184	He knows it's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u185	Poverty in the cuts of EUR 1000 million in pensions; impoverishment in the maximum tax burden; impoverishment in the SNS in chaos; impoverishment in a public school where 60 000 students did not have at least one teacher at a discipline and where teachers are discouraged and are on the street in protest; impoverishment because there are thousands of higher education students who do not have housing; impoverishment because between 2016 and 2022, Portugal grew less than half the average of the cohesion countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u186	It's true! [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u187	But also instability, because you gave the Christmas gift that the Portuguese didn't want or deserve: a government crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u189	You were a kind of Santa Claus with the gift of instability. It has a government closed on itself and it has every condition to have a cohesive and stable government, but what it has is a government of instability and demorality. You, in just nine months — I repeat, in just nine months — have already lost a fifth of the initial Executive and therefore I ask you whether you are confident, if you are 100 % confident, about your new Secretary of State for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u191	You also have a government that is the compressor roll of an absolute majority: dozens of parliamentary hearings are rejected. [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party's apparatus is dominating the State and the Public Administration, because you confuse an absolute majority with absolute power. But let's talk about your Minister of Finance and the 2022 chronology for the former Secretary of State Alexandra Reis. His Finance Minister signed the appointment office for President of NAV, but did not look and ask why a few months earlier Eng.a Alexandra Reis had left TAP Administrator.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u192	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u193	After that, he had heard something he was asking about compensation, and the Minister for Finance asked nothing. Then she appointed her Secretary of State of the Treasury, and no one asked anything. So I ask you: this is your way of ruling -- you don't know, you didn't see, you didn't inquire? Is this how they replace the republican ethics of political responsibility? [[PSD applause.]] And I ask you, Prime Minister, which political authority has your Minister of Finance. How can Portuguese trust their Minister for Finance to ensure good management and control of public money? It is, Mr. Prime Minister, to have, as this case has revealed, an incompetent, light and irresponsible finance minister until it can happen, it is a bad choice; but to keep him in office, after this case, he has only one responsible, and he is responsible for you. [[PSD applause.]] So, what conditions does Dr. Medina have to lead the most important ministry of governance and to ensure good management and control of public money? Mr Prime Minister, you have to rule, because this is not the time for elections, but it has to rule well, you have to regain your political authority, you have to show the Portuguese what it is worth before the Portuguese conclude that it is no longer worth trusting you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u194	We, on this bench, do not play the motions, we respect the popular will that was expressed last January. The PSD is not a protest party, it is a responsible party and it is an alternative, because in democracy there is always an alternative, and the PSD in the past in 2001 and 2011 has been able to respond to the difficulties left by you, swamp and bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u195	If they're an alternative, they're going to the election!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u196	But, Prime Minister, it is time to catch up on the road, it is time to show that it deserves the vote of confidence that the Portuguese gave it with the absolute majority. And if one day there are early elections, responsibility is solely yours. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, my time is running out, but let me give you some advice: either the government changes its life or it will be the Portuguese, quickly, wanting to change government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u197	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u198	Mr President, Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, this year will be 30 years in which for the first time, I have made my face a candidate for elections. I've lost -as.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u199	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u200	Then, I've given my face several times for elections, sometimes I've won, sometimes I've lost. Therefore, Mr President, there is one thing I can assure you, which is the following: I thank your advice, but I was never afraid, losing or winning, to face to go to the elections. Have you ever? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u201	Now, for these. I was elected!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u202	You have raised a question which is your obsession, you have insulted the Minister of Finance, you have asked whether the Minister of Finance has the right to continue, and I will tell you: is it clear that it is not what I was doing here sitting on the government bench? And why can the Portuguese trust the Minister for Finance?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u203	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u204	I will give you a first good reason for the Portuguese to trust the Minister of Finance: it is because this Minister of Finance came into office in the middle of the year, with a war that had been unleashed, with the biggest inflationist crisis that we had before us, with a scenario of enormous uncertainty and unpredictability, in which everyone was saying that right now the devil was coming, that the debt was going to fire, the deficit was going to fire and the public accounts were not being controlled. The truth is, we are here at the end of the year and we are going to be, as you know, one of the countries that has reduced their public debt — minus 10 percentage points — which has allowed us to retire from the podium of the three most indebted countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u205	With the biggest tax burden!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u206	According to the European Commission, we will even be further away from the podium by the end of this year. In addition, we have a deficit lower than expected, and nevertheless we have managed to make more than EUR 6400 million of extraordinary expenditure in support of families and businesses to respond to the inflationary crisis. Yes, these were the results that this Minister of Finance and this government achieved last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And you know, Mr, that these EUR 6400 million in support of the economy and families were absolutely crucial for, despite the time of uncertainty and difficulties we are experiencing, it was 2. the country of the European Union which has grown the most. This is the year that we have grown the most since 1990 — and, Mr President, we have done this with maximum employment, with minimum unemployment and with a maintenance of the income level of families, due to the extraordinary support we have been granting. Mr President, we are living very difficult times and, as everyone knows, it is not easy to deal with inflation. In fact, so the PSD only says bad about what we do, but it does not propose. I would say it does well, because the only proposal that I put forward, in mid-August, when they wanted to say "we are the first to present the package", was a package worth less than half of the package that we presented and applied in October. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, the times are very difficult and I realize that those who have now come to the leadership of the PSD bench are afraid of these difficulties. I'm afraid of the difficulties, but these difficulties are not a novelty to me. When I arrived in the government at the end of 2015, the financial system was very affected, we were living the excessive deficit procedure and we removed Portugal from the excessive deficit procedure and led Portugal in 2019 to the first budgetary surplus of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2020, Mr Deputy, we faced the pandemic and we faced it in 2021 and when at the end of 2021 they found that after the pandemic wearout it was time to provoke a political crisis and overthrow the government, the Portuguese people gave you the answer and gave this government a vote of confidence for another four years of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And when we won the elections, as Mr President of the Republic reminded us, no one thought we were less than a month away from starting a war with catastrophic consequences for Ukraine, brutality for Ukraine, but with dramatic economic consequences for Portuguese and Portuguese. But here we are, as we have been here, to deal with the excessive deficit procedure, as we have been here to deal with the pandemic and now we will face inflation, we will face war, with the same guarantee that we give to the Portuguese: we are here to fulfill what we commit to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u207	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u208	Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u209	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u210	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u211	Mr President, it is only to ask that the excessive deficit procedure be circulated, which Mr. Prime Minister closed in 2017. It happened in 2008 and it was government the Socialist Party, with José Socrates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u212	I believe that Mr. Prime Minister also wants to make an appeal to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u213	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u214	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u215	Mr. President, within the same parliamentary figure invoked by Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, just to recall the following : I was Prime Minister when, in June 2017, Portugal left the excessive deficit procedure ; in 2008, I was taking away the City Hall of Lisbon from the bankruptcy in which the right had left it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, both documents are publicly available, so we can move on to the fifth request for clarification — asking for conditions to be heard - which is the responsibility of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. To that end, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u217	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I welcome you and all the members of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, of course, saw this newspaper page today. The speaker displayed a copy of the cover of the newspaper Correio da Manhã. Now, I heard the answer you gave to Mrs Catarina Martins and it's not about the criminal responsibility we're going to talk about, it's even Republican ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u218	It's the ethic of Manhã's Mail!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u219	Here it is not spoken in criminal responsibility, but it is said that the PJ (Judicial Police) discovered the multiplication of money in the bank, deposited on behalf of Carla Alves. It's not her husband's! So don't come with the story of women and marriage, because that gives to fill half a chourice, but it doesn't give any more of that. The conversation is easy, Prime Minister : on the behalf of the Secretary of State of your Government in three years entered money which does not correspond to your tax statement. Do you remember the judgment of the former Prime Minister in prison? That judgment said: “He who gives goats and goats has no one to come to him.” Mr. Prime Minister, it is not in question whether Carla Alves is accused or not—I think it is not, in fact, as Mr. Prime Minister said, I think you are not, even in this indictment process—but in your accounts there is money undeclared, in your accounts there is threefold undeclared money! I ask you, is that what you want to happen to the country? Do you want to pass the image that it's normal for a ruler to have in his accounts money that you haven't declared? So don't talk about criminal responsibilities! We are talking about possible fiscal responsibility, as Mr. Prime Minister knows well! Now, the Tax Authority will certainly make the way it has to do, but that is another matter that is not called here, here it is pure political responsibility. Moreover, in the case of Secretary of State Alexandra Reis, criminal responsibility was not at stake either. And the question is, then, whether the Secretary of State can claim 1 million and a half compensation and receive half a million, and we find it wrong—and well! — then, do we think it is normal for a State Secretary to have in his accounts undeclared money? Oh, my God! Whether it's her or not. Because, look, it's her account too! Whether in her name, or in her husband's name, or in another's name, it's her! It's in her name, it's in her name!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u220	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u221	And there is no one in this country who can say otherwise! Mr. Prime Minister, they are cases behind cases that undermine the prestige and authority of your government. We all heard the Minister of Finance, who has just praised him, saying that he has removed Carla Alves for prestige and authority of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u222	Alexandra Reis!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u223	Alexandra Reis, I'm sorry! Now, I ask you whether to keep Carla Alves helps the prestige and authority of the government, or whether we're going to have a new novel, for as long as I don't know how many days, until she ends up as we all know she's probably going to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u225	I know that today this could go through the raindrops, but I do not forget John Cravinho, who is here today, too, in this motion of censure. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u226	It's just that we're not talking about criminal responsibility either—that I know! ... — we are talking about a minister who has allowed the value of the works of a hospital to triple and has appointed the person who was already identified as author or possible author of these breakdowns, in particular by the Court of Auditors. But he appointed him and took on that responsibility. Do you think this contributes to authority, prestige and Republican ethics that you so much like to talk about? Oh, my God! The republican ethics is to keep a minister who has appointed a person who tripled a budget, who has allowed for spillage and who has ended up in a sad episode, of algebras, leaving his work? Oh, my God! Is that what's good for the government? Oh, my God! Is that what's good for the prestige of the Republic? Oh, my God! Mr Prime Minister said: "This is cases and cases. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Prime Minister, who led the negotiations between the government and the TAP? Who was it? It was the Secretary of State of this Minister who is here next to us. So we can repeat a thousand times to the country that no one knew of anything. Mr. Prime Minister himself came, in fact training — I think he was in fact training or jersey— at the door of a flag, and he said: « I don’t know anything. We'll let this run, now, its terms. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Laughing.]] It's true, I was in fact training or jersey. Sometimes I'm also going. It happens to everyone! ...it's rare, but sometimes I also walk. Mr. Prime Minister, no one believes that Mr. Prime Minister, or anyone from your government, would know. Today, Mr. Prime Minister said something relevant here: whoever knew took responsibility. And I think this warning is not for the Arrival, nor for the PSD, nor for the Liberal Initiative, it is for the PS. Mr Prime Minister said, and I quote, because he liked this to stay in the mind of everyone, "who knew took responsibility". Pedro Nuno Santos, then he knew!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u228	In other words, Pedro Nuno Santos lied to the country that night, because on that night the two ministers — the Minister of Finance and the absence of the government bench and the PS board — made a joint statement asking for clarifications on compensation, and only asks for clarifications who knows nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u229	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u230	Who knows, don't ask for any clarifications! Therefore, if we start from the principle that Fernando Medina did not know, then Pedro Nuno Santos knew, and Mr. Prime Minister today confirmed it here. But, then, this is serious, so, this is PS's responsibility, so, this is Pedro Nuno Santos' responsibility and, then, this is all less republican ethics, it's all less what they've been claiming I don't know how many years ago! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister says: evaluate us for the results. Look, Prime Minister, the results are here! The speaker displayed a copy of the newspaper's news. The 8th most expensive gasoline in Europe! Here are the results! Do you want me to distribute it to everyone? Appeals to the Bureau for distributions... [[CH's laughs.]] The eighth most expensive petrol in Europe — this is the result! Then it's the brutal increase in house service. Today millions are unable to pay the household allowance because the government has not been able to contain, with effective measures, the family effort rate. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] We paid today the gas oil we paid, because they did not have the courage to implement measures such as those that have the Spaniards, discount of 0, 20 € per litre, as happens in any gas pump in Spain. We paid the eighth gas more expensive! And look, Prime Minister, what better remains of your government is this: there are those who have to wait three years for a consultation, Prime Minister! The speaker displayed a copy of the news from the public newspaper. I repeat: three years! Do you want results? These are the results: the most expensive gas stations in Europe ; the highest waiting times in Europe ; the provision of the house that rises and that many cannot afford. Do you want more reasons to overthrow this government?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u232	Yes, Prime Minister, was elected in January 2022. Against expectations and certainly without the vote of those who voted in us and others, the PS has achieved an absolute majority. But the legitimacy of the absolute majority was degrading when it called into question the authority and desires of a country that voted in a government to save it and not to sink it further! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It spent one year of the elections — one year! — and what we have is the government in freefall, with cases that affect its credibility every day, and the Portuguese increasingly poorer. Today, the answer is not just to this Parliament, it is to this Parliament and to the country. If there were elections again, Mr. Prime Minister, I can assure you that I could win or lose, but a lot, a lot of struggle would have! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u233	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u234	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I thank you for your questions. On general issues, by saving time and because I have already responded to various Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not answering. As regards the specific question you have put again, Mr President, we will not discuss the criminal part because, as you have assumed, the newspaper itself which serves its source tells you that you are not accused.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u235	My, no! All of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u236	Of all people, ready! What could I do? You tell me that, on her account, there is no undeclared income and that all incomes... CH Member André Ventura displayed a copy of the news from the newspaper Correio da Manhã. I'm telling you what she told me! You're showing what the newspaper says and I'm telling you what you said. And what you tell me is that, in her accounts, there is no undeclared income—she does not know whether or not she is in the husband's accounts—everything she has made has been declared. That's what you're telling me. [[PSD protests.]] What do I tell you in the specific case, and what do I tell you in abstract? Your question is as follows: if a member of the government has undeclared income, should it remain in the government? My answer is no, obviously no! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the current Secretary of State, previously, because she was the regional director of agriculture, was already obliged to make statements of income, as the honourable Member is and how I am. Therefore, in her statement of income they will already include the income they have and those they do not have, the heritage they have and the heritage they do not have. What you told me is what I can tell you. I do not, of course, have access to you's bank accounts and I can only believe what you told me by the Secretary of State. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u237	Sure! So it's obvious! I'm sure I can only make faith. So if the Secretary of State tells the truth, I have nothing to point out. If, as an abstract—which was the question you put—some government member has undeclared incomes, of course it cannot be maintained as a member of the government. It's obvious! I believe that is a clear and transparent thing. We agree on this point! Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u238	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u239	It's good to agree on minimums. Secondly, it is not worth wanting to complicate what is not complicated. The Ministry of Infrastructure published a note to the social communication on 29 December, where it says, immediately in point 6 : "However, having now been informed by the Minister of the terms of the agreement and in the face of the doubts raised..."—that is, the Minister, in the statement he made to the social communication, says that he only had knowledge at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u240	So why did he quit?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u241	Then, in point 7, the circumstances and reasons that led the Secretary of State of Infrastructure to resign are explained. Finally, in point 8, the Minister explains that it is a matter of political responsibility which he intends to resign, which has been duly accepted. Therefore, I did not say that the Minister knew, because the Minister himself, in the note he published, said that only now he had knowledge. That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u242	Only that day? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u243	I think these were the two concrete points that really helped him, and I believe that he has been duly clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u244	For a request for clarification, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u245	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Prime Minister, the first note, after the debate we have been having, is that it is clear why the Portuguese have relied on you as Prime Minister and because they have, above all, given an absolute majority to the Socialist Party. On the right, we have interventions that focus essentially on what is not of interest to the Portuguese. My colleague Joaquim Miranda Sarmento made an intervention — I am sorry to say so — that you do not understand the direction of your party and that you do not realize what an alternative you will have when you make this set of successive criticisms. The PPD / PSD is becoming, and to its parliamentary group, in a party that is not opposed, is a party of non-position and of the « bottom-down». [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that doesn't create any alternative in this country! You did not even realize that we are discussing a motion of censure and what is asked for in a motion of censure is that what you want is clearly stated not only for the country but for the continuity of this government. As for the radical right, we already knew. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u246	It's not you, it's the IL! You're the extreme right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u247	The radical right comes to this debate essentially criticize the government not for the results, as you said, but for a number of other phenomena. We'll be there later. However, I cannot but give a word to the Left Block. The Left Block has not yet understood why the Portuguese gave an absolute majority to the PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u248	No one understands anything! You're the only ones who understand everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u249	... they put the Left Block in the opposition and, above all, the Left Block continues to insist on confusing the PS with the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u250	You're the ones who get confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u251	The Portuguese on the left, in view of this confusion that the Left Block makes, have no doubt: they vote in the PS, to have left-wing policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, the Portuguese, when they want left-wing policies, have only one solution, because the Left Block will soon run, at the first opportunity, handing over power to the right to put the PS in opposition. And at that point, the Portuguese are not again deceived by the Left Block, as they were in other elections, on other occasions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we are here to discuss a motion of censure. And a motion of censure has one objective: overthrowing the government and interrupting the legislature. The Liberal Initiative wants to interrupt the legislature, but the first question is this: interrupt what? To interrupt a nine-month legislation with a government presenting some results. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the gross domestic product is the second largest in Europe in 2022 ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u252	Major breakdown in 2020!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u253	... we have convergence with the European Union's average, to a large extent, in this century only with PS governments and only with governments led by Antonio Costa ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u254	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u255	... we have exports worth EUR 100 billion — the barrier has been exceeded this year for the first time; we have unemployment at historical minimums and employment at maximums;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u256	Salaries, averages!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u257	... we have the deficit below 3 % and to be reduced; public debt falling and with the projections of the European Commission will even be below the Belgian debt in 2024,... [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] ...in addition to being below the Spanish, French, Greek and Italian debts in a process of consolidation of public accounts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u258	And the taxes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u259	But we also have results in the face of reforms: the reform that was initiated with the Basic Health Law, the SNS Statute, the Director General of the SNS ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u260	That's not results!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u261	...the public school, Mr. Deputy, with minimum school dropout values, as we have never lived in this country. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u262	This is the result, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u263	But they're little.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u264	And for you — who is a man who knows companies — are KPI (key performance indicator), are unique indicators that the country is on the right track, has a good government, has a majority that supports it, and that stability is not just about people, it is about who leads, it is about a programme, it is about stability that these 120 Members give to a programme that has results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u265	That's not enough! It's a little bit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u266	But it is necessary to think: who wants to overthrow the government? The Liberal Initiative. The Liberal Initiative wants to overthrow the government. As for stability, everything is said: this is a party that has not yet solved the problem of internal instability... [[Look at yours!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u267	...and that he wants to provoke instability in the country. It's something we've never seen: an internal instability party wants to create instability in the country; it's something we've never seen before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second, it's a party that wanted to start this legislation by putting itself here, between PS and PSD. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u268	It's a party that wanted to sit here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u269	It was there, at the foot of BE, that they wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u270	But, Mr Deputies, we did the accounting and examined the last seven speeches of the Liberal Initiative between August and October. And to be ecumenical, we analyze speeches by Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, Mr Rui Rocha and Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u271	We were busy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u272	These three Members, from August to October, in these seven interventions, attempted 38 times to claim that their political opponents lied, were liars, they deluded, giving a means of calling a "liar" a political opponent more than five times by intervention, Mr Prime Minister, more than five times by intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why it is no wonder that this party, who wanted to sit here in the middle today, will vote on this motion of censure alone, with the far-right parliament, with the extreme anti-democratic right sitting in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this motion of censure of the Liberal Initiative is the result of an unstable, transfigured party who began to want to sit in the middle and end up lying at the extreme-right radical. [[IL protests.]] And, therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo is resigning, he goes away,... [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u273	... does well—in your understanding, of course, because we, in that, do not get involved—but you will leave this mark: a party of instability, unstable, which wants to provoke a crisis in the country that would aggravate the living conditions of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This party, from which we are very separated...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u274	Ah, separate, separate!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u275	... from an ideological point of view, but that's a democratic party, it's a party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u276	That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u277	... which presented, in the last State budget, a measure which alone would drop tax revenue by EUR 3 billion. It was the best approach to a British government of Mrs. Truss : 3 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u278	It was TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u279	And it is this government that, with responsibility, reduces deficit and debt. The radical right wants to put the country at the mercy of international financial markets, always penalizing the same: those who have lower pensions, those who receive wages, those to whom the right has been cutting wages and pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u280	O PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u281	So, Prime Minister, there are a number of questions: what does the radical right really want to hold? What does the radical right want to lock?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u282	What radical right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u283	Who's the radical right?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u284	I suspect and that is the question I leave you with: do you want to stop the Worthy Work Agenda, do you want to stop the agenda that allows workers to have better conditions? Do you want to close the income and salary agreement which allows for an increase of up to 20 % by 2026 of wages? Do you want to stop decentralization and more democracy and more efficiency in the execution of public expenditure?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u285	Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you...! He's feeding the fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u286	Do you want to stop the minimum wage increase? They have always said that the increase in the minimum wage would penalise the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, but today we export more and we have a better minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you want to stop the Recovery and Resilience Plan? Do you want to stop the application of Community funds which also allow us to have a more competitive economy, better wages and better employment? What do you want to lock? You want to stop this majority, but — watch out! — we have a programme, we will implement this Programme, we are the benchmark of stability,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u287	... we have the same leadership, we have the confidence of the Portuguese and you may continue to scream, but they are increasingly stuck to the right, to the extreme right, are disoriented and, therefore,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u288	Mr President, you have just doubled your speaking time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u289	... Mr. Prime Minister, what does this radical right want to hold? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u290	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. I ask for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u291	Mr. President, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u292	It's not brilliant! It's just Days!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u293	... truly, the right, as a whole, all of it, the greatest dream you have is to create a political crisis;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u294	It's ruling!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u295	...the only thing that truly divides the right is the best opportunity for the political crisis. There are those who, in the good « passive» tradition, think that the devil is coming right now and think: «they have endured the crisis of the banks here; they have endured the excessive deficit; they have endured the pandemic; they are still enduring this war,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u296	The Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u297	...but now, with the war continuing, with the inflation rising, they will even catch them. And, therefore, let them “cold fry in light ”,... [[PSD protests.]] ... let's create here great agitation, great noise, let's put our transmission belts all making noise and then, there to 2024, they may be quite fried so they can then be knocked down». Others, who are already « scalded cat», say: «It is better not to leave them there. It's better to lay them down right below,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u298	It's better for the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u299	... because they have already managed to get the country out of the excessive deficit procedure; they have already managed to cope with the pandemic; they are ill or well enduring this and the country has grown, unemployment has not increased, now with the Community funds to run will start entering more money into the economy and more money in society, the economy will continue to grow, we will continue to rise above the European media, we will continue to converge with the European Union ; if we leave them there it may be that once again the encounter with the devil does not happen. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, therefore, this ever more homogeneous double, Liberal / Reaching Initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u300	Here comes the Liberal Initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u301	... says: « Dad, it is necessary to lay them down quickly! Do not keep on seeking. ” The PSD says: “No, let’s let them “ fry ” a little more. » And the PSD has another ambition. It is because the PSD realizes that it is a political problem to have to enable a government in partnership with the Arrival and now also with the Liberal Initiative, which is increasingly coming. [[IL protests.]] So, what is the PSD target? The objective of the PSD is another: on the one hand, to see whether the government is struggling to cope with the economic crisis and, on the other hand, also to see whether the Liberal Initiative is continuing to break down. The leader has already left, now he's got three candidates and they're going into that process...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u302	But he's gonna go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u303	... where these epiphenomen parties usually enter and, of course, an important part of the Liberal Initiative electorate returns to the PSD's parent house, so that they can go to elections in better conditions than they would with a strong Liberal Initiative. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Therefore, truly, we should not have any illusions about what is right either: right or even crisis! Crisis, that's what the right one wants! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must therefore let them debate the opportunity and concentrate and focus on what we have been mandated by the Portuguese. And what we were mandated to do by the Portuguese was: face the crisis and overcome it;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u304	Five million poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u305	... respond to the country's structural problems; even 80 % of the electricity in four years, to be produced by renewable sources, to deal with climate change; we will even reduce poverty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u306	Five million poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u307	... because we must combat inequalities; even guarantee a greater number of students in higher education; greater investment in science and culture, because we must continue to grow based on knowledge; continue to wager in our companies, in improving their productivity, in their export capacity, so that the country continues to grow and create more and better jobs. That's our mission. Theirs is to provoke the crisis; ours is to solve the crisis and transform the country. That's why we're here, that's what we're gonna keep doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u308	I now give the floor to make a request for clarification to Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP. Quiet request in the room, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u309	What a shame! It's all going away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, when we went to elections a year ago and the country asked for stability, what no one would wish was political instability under the aegis of an absolute majority. We have already heard some clarifications — and I am delighted that Mr Prime Minister has broken the silence that has marked the last few days, because the worst service he could do in democracy was actually to be silent about the cases and houses that have been happening, but there is another issue that also undermines democracy: the normalization of these cases, the normalization and the absence of answers. We have already received some clarifications here, but we still don't know what the government will do to prevent public money being wasted again in the TAP. It is that it was more than half a million euros in the same year that we told the families that we would not reduce the VAT, for example, of the food cabaz and in which we already have an expense with the purchase of that same cabaz which amounts to more than €200 per month, or in the same year that Mr. Prime Minister said that he would not, for example, extend the social energy tariff to gas, or in which there was no higher wager in the fight against climate change. All this is political options. As for this motion of censure which is presented here today, it is something in which we do not see ourselves — the NAP does not see itself on a right that wants to exhaust the social state, on a right that is conservative and which, in any way, brings in baffling customs — but we cannot see ourselves in an absolute majority who is blind, in his own vanity, Mr Prime Minister. It is that, when Mr. Prime Minister went to the election, he said that there would be dialogue and what we have seen is the ministers going over his word, the lack of scrutiny in the appointment of State Secretaries. What the Portuguese and the opposition—such as the NAP—want to know what it will do to prevent this from happening again in future situations. It is that, in order for there to be a resettling in these practices that are harmful and that undermine confidence in democracy and the political system, it is in your hands to do more and better. And for that, one of the things that the NAP has been challenging it from now on—and it is something that it has been waiting for almost a year—is to return to the debates in the Assembly of the Republic, whether they are fifteen or monthly, as the NAP proposes. Talk again and not be turned back to the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to cases such as that of TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u311	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u312	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I said with regard to cases such as that of TAP, we have already entered a proposal to apply the Statute of the Public Manager to the TAP, because in fact we cannot continue to have these cases of spending on public money and not to do anything. in this sense, I ask you, Prime Minister, if you are available to accompany us, to resolve this injustice from a financial point of view?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u313	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u314	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having to be synthetic because of the time available, I would like to assure you this: I do not think that we can and should normalise abnormal situations, even if they are cases and homes, must be taken seriously and, above all, we must give the confidence that we take them seriously. Therefore, I will not tell you much today, but I will tell you that I will propose to Mr President of the Republic that we be able to establish a circuit between my proposal and the appointment of the members of the Government so that we can avoid not knowing facts that we are unable to know and guarantee greater transparency and confidence of all at the time of appointment. I will first speak to Mr President of the Republic and then I will say what I have to propose so that the circuit can be improved, because it can be effectively improved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u315	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u316	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not want to believe that the people I speak to on the street are different from those I speak to. It is because Mr. Prime Minister says that no one wants to ask you why this Secretary of State came in or out. It's a bad sign if people don't want to ask you that, it's a sign that you might feel that Mr. Prime Minister doesn't want to hear that question. There is no one here who can deny this fact: we all ask, and well, because they care, because the requirement with the composition and action of the government is a sign of democratic maturity. People are also concerned, because if the government does not do the housework with its State Secretaries, it may not be doing its housework in other things equally or even more important. People are watching you very carefully, more than any one or any of us here in this Chamber. And what people want to know is not whether Mr. Prime Minister has the rhetoric necessary to respond to Members and Members of the opposition — that is no novelty — what people want to know is whether they have humility — is the word! — to recognise that when things do not need to have new procedures. You just told us here that you want to have new procedures. Well, I make a proposal to you: do not leave the Assembly of the Republic out of these procedures. Perhaps this is the time for me to read: « set up practice in the context of the debate on the Government's programme,... », i.e. before full office, «... of the Ministers / present them and discuss the objectives to which they are proposed through an individual hearing in their parliamentary committees ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u317	That can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u318	This is part of the XXII Government Programme as well as the 2019 PS Electoral Programme on page 35. What is strange is that this element came out of the 2022 PS and Government Programme. That is, when you were asking for an absolute majority, you were at the same time decreasing the level of demand. However, there is a good opportunity to correct this lapse. The Book presented — and so we see the difference between who, in due course, presented a proposal for a constitutional review, which is now under way, and who asks the advertising agency what is the best time to present a motion of censure — the proposal that... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... Ministers and State Secretaries come to Parliament before the confirmation, as indeed Mr Prime Minister had the opportunity to experience, when he was in the European Parliament, where Commissioners and Commissioners come to the European Parliament before the confirmation. What we need to know now is whether the government has the humility to learn from mistakes, it is not responding, in a motion of censure, to demonstrate that it has verbs, sense of humor and everything else. at this time, this is of little interest to Portuguese and Portuguese. The humility of an absolute majority Government recognises that, so far, it has been the most unstable of its governments — yes, it is of interest to Portuguese and Portuguese, and it is also important for our democracy to make a leap of quality. So it's about whether we're going to take advantage of this constitutional review process so that these new procedures don't just stay... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... between Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President of the Republic and cannot exclude the House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u319	You've had one and a half more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u320	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u321	Mr President, honourable Member, on the question of the relationship between the Government and the President of the Republic for appointment, I had the opportunity to answer recently before the question put by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. As regards the constitutional review process, as you should imagine, the last thing the Government can do is interfere in a legislative process which is, in fact, the only process in which it has no right of initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u322	We will now proceed with the remaining requests for clarification. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you that if there are still doubts that your government is completely exhausted, the evidence of this is the chaos and the successive jokes that have been seen on the subject of maternity. From the moment a government doesn't even have the capacity... [[Protests from PS deputy Ricardo Pinheiro.]] ...to ensure peace and security for pregnant women in your country, one of the most vulnerable and sensitive phases of your lives, so degradation and decline are total. Your Government presents a plan for the rotating closure of maternity for Christmas and New Year, the coordinator of the monitoring committee on this subject says that it cannot be a « definitive solution », because that is not « defensive in a European country », and what does your government do? The executive direction of the SNS announces that this plan will be maintained in the first quarter and that it will outline an identical plan for the summer. How do you justify this, Prime Minister? And, yes, Prime Minister, we have already seen that a motion of censure of the Liberal Initiative was needed to make money available to the Government for the requalification of maternity. However, we continue to have more than 1 million and 400 thousand people without a family doctor; waiting lists for specialist consultations and surgeries remain unacceptable; from north to south of the country there are problems in all the SNS valences.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u324	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u325	All this is unworthy! Mr. Prime Minister, he's been in government for almost eight years and, in health, all he could did was give people less access and a free transit to waiting lists. As a result, we have the emergency services of several fully overcrowded hospitals. On Tuesday, it was 13 hours of waiting at Santa Maria Hospital. Mr. Prime Minister, may I ask you if you're not worried about this? It seems not, because your solution has been to pretend that it changes things, creating more layers, more charges, but then it gets all the same or even worse. It is that, indeed, your government has a special way of doing things wrong. At the time of remodeling in the Ministry of Health, Mr. Prime Minister made it clear that only the faces were changing, not the policies. This only shows that its remodelings do not serve anything, they only serve to continue everything in it. Therefore, what needs to be changed from government, it needs to be changed from Prime Minister, because the more time the problems pass, the less reforms progress, the more the state crushes, the more people wait and despair. With arrogance and pre-eminence, Mr. Prime Minister thinks that the absolute majority gives him the right to put and dispose, and he also tells us: « get used to it ». But no, the Liberal Initiative does not get used to it, nor does it want the Portuguese to get used to a mediocre government, which has led to the collapse of all public services. Mr. Prime Minister, be convinced: you need to change habits! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u326	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u327	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Government took office in March 2022 ; in June, the Minister of Finance signed a joint order appointing Eng. Alexandra Reis for NAV. It is impossible for you to ignore your past millionaire related to the administration of TAP, or your passage through TAP,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u328	... since there was an opinion from CRESAP (the Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Committee ) that said exactly what the course this woman had done, and she was competent to know what the companies that depend on it are paying for. This was a personal decision that Mr. Minister of Finance made, in the choice of the then Secretary of State Alexandra Reis, to be part of his hard core, his team, without any hesitation, even knowing that this woman had passed through the TAP and then through the NAV. Mr V. Exa, Prime Minister, considers that the fact that this woman has been disbursed, despite the monetary compensation of €500 000, resolves everything and that there is nothing further to clarify, but it is precisely the opposite. Mr. Finance Minister claims to be unaware of this past, but there are questions that have already been raised: how did he choose this person? Didn't you know this person went through the TAP and the NAV? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Has it not been questioned about matters such as the possible existence of incompatibilities in decision-making related to the TAP? [[PSD applause.]] You had to know exactly these facts, these events, in order to be able to make a decision on this woman's choice for her team, for her hard core. Mr. Prime Minister, what we find is that there was incapacity, there was no vote in this person's choice, and this brings into question the political authority of the Minister of Finance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u329	Therefore, if this brings into question the political authority, this is the result of the fact that the Minister of Finance did not want to know, have not seen and have hidden — they still tried this week! — behind the biombos of the majority of the Socialist Party. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In view of this, what I ask you, Prime Minister, is it really the fact that Mr TAP Gate, the Minister of Finance, is in a position to continue ahead of the Ministry of Finance? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u330	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, in addition to the political crisis that his Ministers Pedro Nuno Santos and Fernando Medina have created in recent days, the truth is that we have a serious social crisis. As the PSD has already said this afternoon, we are a responsible party, we will not be asking for elections year after year, but we will, yes, ask for explanations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u333	That's what we're going to ask you to rule and explain! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, if the Government's responses to the social crisis are necessary, they are also clearly insufficient and this government is strongly marked by impoverishment. Otherwise, let's see: even with social support, Portugal has about 2 million poor people; even with support and wage increases, the loss of purchasing power is brutal—Mr. Prime Minister, there are families who have to choose between buying drugs and buying food; lending to housing, that is, home benefits are increasingly a nightmare for families. The government, despite the increase in its revenue, what did it do? It decided to apply a cut of EUR 1000 million to pensions. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the most fragile, the most vulnerable, will continue to be the ones who suffer most from this social crisis. So I wanted to draw attention to this: this is real life, this is real life, and we cannot accept that Mr. Prime Minister will come here to bring us a clear vision of reality. You know why, Prime Minister? Because as long as you do not accept reality you will never be able to present the solutions that are necessary. Therefore, either the government changes its life, or it is the Portuguese who will effectively demand the change of government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u334	You now have the floor for the last request for clarification, Mrs Sonia Ramos, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u335	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Prime Minister is the face of a decadent government that cannot provide quality public services to Portuguese. In health, we have nearly 1 million and a half users without a family doctor, despite their promise of election, since 2017; we have queues waiting for them to start early at the door of health centres; endless queues and waiting lists for exams and surgeries, which compromise the health status of Portuguese; and now we also have intermittent maternity, which risk the lives of Portuguese people and their children. It is a chaos never seen, aggravated by socialist inertia, which used to fail the Portuguese. In education, Prime Minister, the teachers are on the street, and they are on the street defending public school, because this government cannot even guarantee the constitutional right to learn. Socialist governance promised inclusive school and failed. Socialist governance promised to end the house behind its back, and failed. Socialist governance continues to promise to reconcile the professional and private life of teachers, but failed; it promised to make the profession as an attractive teacher and solve the problem of lack of teachers, and failed. Socialist governance promised a learning recovery plan, but begins the school year with 60 000 students without a teacher at least to a discipline. Socialist governance promises digital school, but it has 200,000 computers embedded in schools... [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u336	...and we're not the ones saying it, it's the Court of Auditors, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] The Minister of Education is in the House of Democracy today, but he has already been here yesterday to account for his « de-governance» and has proved well that he has already « laid the towel on the ground» when, using the gerundium—and he does not find it to be alentejo— he said : « we are negotiating », « we are studying», « we are working». Mr Minister of Education, in fact, has already exhausted its negotiating capacity. Again, it's not the PSD that says it, it's the teachers, they're on the street. Mr Prime Minister, will you or will you not involve the Minister of Finance in negotiations with the teachers? Or is the Minister of Finance always in need of justification in this government? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u337	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to reply telegraphly. Mrs. Joana Cordeiro, yes, the Executive Directorate of the National Health Service had the concern and caution to organize the operation « Christmas in Security » and, thanks to this, between 23 and 26 December, were born safely in Portugal, 366 babies; between 30 December and 2 January, 483 babies were born safely in Portugal. Yes, the operation was mounted, proceeded and, quietly, we have more these new babies, to whom we can wish happy year of 2023. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] Mr. Hugo Carneiro, as you know, Mr. Minister of Finance will come to the Commission tomorrow at the request of the PSD — they have asked him to come next week, but he will come tomorrow. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, one of the great problems of bringing ready sound bits is that they don't always fit into reality. Madam Member, let's see: if the government had no notion of reality, it would not have adopted the set of measures that it has taken throughout the year to face the brutal inflationist crisis that we are living in,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u339	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u340	...a crisis like you haven't lived for 30 years! 30 years ago I was Mrs. Deputy a child, if it was already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u341	Oh, thank you very much. I was, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u342	I was already a child, ready! Since then there was not — one of the first times your brother has been a minister! — inflation of this size. There was no more inflation in these 30 years and, therefore, at the moment, we are facing a reality that is indeed very difficult. Are we able to solve all the problems? Of course not! But is the honourable Member surprised that they are the most vulnerable, the poorest those who suffer the most in crisis situations? Oh, my God! That is why the measures we have taken have been directed, in particular, to the poorest. The honourable Member says: « But we, PSD, would do better. » So I ask you what the PSD proposals are. Do you know what the PSD proposed in August to respond to this crisis? It was a food valley of 40 €, paying until December last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u343	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u344	It was a food valley! [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u345	The PSD believes that if we give needy people the money instead of the valley to discount on the Pink Doce or on the Continent, they may have the courage to use to pay the household income or to buy school material or new tennis for their children. Do you think that people, families, should not have the freedom to manage their income and that they do not have the ability to manage? Do you think they need this paternalism, if you tell them "they have the check here, but is it a check to go to the grocery store or supermarket?"
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u346	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u347	Yes, that's the PSD proposal! [[PSD protests.]] This was the proposal presented by the PSD and the honourable Member was there, applauding the presentation of Miranda Sarmento's programme and Dr. Montenegro! That was the proposal they presented, a food voucher of 40 €! What did the government do? The government did not give a 40 € food check, which the government did in October to all people who won up to 2700 €, twice the average monthly income, give 125 €;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u348	A fortune!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u349	...for each child, 50 €; to the most vulnerable families—for whom, in the first half, had already transferred 120 € — it gave more €120 and, in December, more € 240 €. This is because it's really the most needy we have to run. And, Mrs Deputy, we did not take EUR 1000 million from pensioners. Between the extraordinary support and the support this year, until December 31, 2023, no one will receive less than he would be entitled to receive in accordance with the formula of the law. No one will receive less than he would receive in accordance with the law. Until we get to January 1, 2024, we'll still be both here to find out what the increase next year is going to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u350	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u351	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u352	I shall now conclude, Mr President. But one thing I assure you, Mrs Deputies, we will not promise pensioners what we cannot do, because the relationship of trust that we have built with all pensioners comes since we eliminated PSD cuts in pensions. Since we have increased pensions every year, since we have made six extraordinary increases in pensions, since we have made more these extraordinary increases last year, there is one thing that pensioners know: this government will always be with them and we will never take a step longer than the leg to take away from them tomorrow what we are giving them today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u353	They've tried!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u354	What we are giving them today is nothing we are giving them, it is a right they have to receive and, until December 31, that right is guaranteed. Let's see, in 2024, what happens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u355	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the stage of the talks. To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As to censoring the government, led more than seven years ago by this Prime Minister, the PSD did not start yesterday and never shut up, nor shut up, the denunciation of the socialist mismanagement. But the most gruesome case, the most complete and serious example of the socialist mismanagement of public money and the socialist policy of experimentalism with our money is all focused on the TAP. TAP became a nightmare for Portuguese and a curse for PS. The TAP is equal to bad surprises and Pedro Nuno Santos ; the TAP is redundancies, cuts of wages, strikes and Pedro Nuno Santos ; the TAP is ideological prejudice, a huge hole of 3200 million euros and Pedro Nuno Santos ; the TAP is Lisbon, and nothing else around, and Pedro Nuno Santos. And when we thought it was even worse, TAP was Alexandra Reis, a lying exit, obscene compensation and Fernando Medina! [[PSD applause.]] Someone believes that there are changes in a public company in the board of directors and the owner, the state, don't you know? Not before, not after? Does anyone believe that an administrator appointed by the Minister of Finance leaves the TAP in a lying renunciation in which everyone lies, and the minister doesn't know anything? Don't you know that you went out and appointed her to NAV Portugal? Oh, my God! Does anyone believe that TAP paid Alexandra Reis half a million euros without the support of the Ministry of Finance? Does anyone believe that, after the Express report of May 26, no one, but no one warned the minister of the existence of a millionaire compensation paid to Alexandra Reis? Does anyone believe that Medina invites Alexandra to ignore her previous course, without taking care of the reason for her departure from TAP? Anyone believes in a minister who takes 48 hours to respond to the news from the Manhã Post and that the best way to explain the matter is to ask what happened? But, after all, do ministers serve to explain or to ask for explanations? Someone accepts, without a smile or a tear, that Minister Medina, confronted with the behavior of his—yes, yours! — State Secretary, sitting next to you in the government, asks you nothing and opts to ask TAP what's going on? [[PSD applause.]] But there's more! Someone accepts that a minister takes refuge in a « I didn't know, I wasn't there » and flees inside the government, leaving the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing running away from the government? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Didn't you know? Oh, my God! And you didn't have an obligation to know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u357	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u358	More: does anyone accept that a minister hides himself, kneeling behind the PS bench to prevent his parliamentary hearing, as happened yesterday, forcing the PSD to bring him "by the neck of the coat"? [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members, Fernando Medina was to be Minister of Finance, to whom respectability was required, sense of responsibility, courage and knowledge of the themes and folders that concern finance. After all this, Medina is a minister, but Medina is no longer a minister of anything, she is just a shipwreck, attached to a boat called "absolute majority" and to a Prime Minister who, in the last nine months alone, has already lost Marta Tepido, Pedro Nuno Santos and nine State Secretaries. And today's news doesn't wish anything good. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, less than a year ago, the Portuguese voted in a majority government for a stability which was promised to them, but which is too late. Antonio Costa had a majority who did not ask or deserve, but only the government is responsible for fulfilling or betraying that trust. The PSD will not contribute to crises, real or artificial, of a government that is nine months old, but we already know, or the government changes lives or the Portuguese people change government! [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u359	The Bureau shall record an entry for clarification. To make this request for clarification, Mr Marco Perestrello of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u360	Madam President, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, I have listened carefully to you, you have already listened carefully to your parliamentary leader and we have also listened carefully to the leader of your party. I am sorry to say to you, Mr, we have heard the three speeches and do not « hit the boot with the stick ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u361	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u362	Mr. Members and the leader of his party make, naturally and as if expected from an opposition party, a catastrophic portrait of the country, a catastrophic portrait of the government. Mr Miranda Sarmento even said that the PSD is the alternative to the government, but then I hear him, you, doing here a diatric about the TAP and I ask: after all, what does the PSD think about the TAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u363	Exactly! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u364	What does the PSD think about the country? What does the PSD think about the different structuring themes of the country, society, the economy? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In recent months they have been unable to have a clear position here! The honourable Member went to the rostrum to say that the TAP is the TAP of 3, 2 billion euros. True, Mr, it was necessary to inject EUR 3, EUR 2 billion in order to save the company, but I would like to say that in addition to saying that—I say so too! — the PSD told us what it would do instead. [[I told you!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u365	I didn't say! I didn't say! [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has to come and say: "We did not inject 1 toston into the TAP! We let TAP fall! We'd let tens of thousands of people go to unemployment! We left tens of thousands of companies, suppliers of the company, without payments in the day! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That's what the honourable Member had to say, but he doesn't say. How could I not also take part in the process of discussing the State budget that we had here? To get rid of this responsibility, they arrived here before the proposal was known, and they said: "We will vote against. Come whatever comes, we will vote against it.” They refused to participate in a process that could have counted on your contribution, because in time the PSD has already contributed to the improvement of the country, to the construction of the country. [[PSD protests.]] Do it in the government and do it in the opposition. [[And hell!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u366	That was a PSD that's not here anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u367	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u368	But you've already done it! For example, on the issue of the airport, you have committed yourself to discussing the methodology for choosing the place — it is already a step! — but the truth is, in the last 10 years, about the location of the airport,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u369	O Portela!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u370	...no one has ever known a position of the Democratic Social Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have already discussed, at the initiative of the Arrival, another motion of censure. What did the PSD do at the time, even though it was already stated as an alternative? Stay away from me! Neither were they in favour nor against, they are unable to take a stand.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u371	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u372	Let us look at a structural issue for Portuguese society, that of euthanasia, whose law was discussed for the third time two weeks ago. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u373	The PSD is unable to take a position on a structural issue for Portuguese society in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, I am not surprised that today, in the discussion of this motion for censure of the Liberal Initiative, the PSD is once again unable to take a stand. Stay away! Not at all. They are neither alternative nor cease to be, they are always « so-so-so-so».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u374	Come on, now they hit the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u375	Do you know what the problem is, sir? It's just that the PSD runs away from responsibility like the devil on the cross. [[PS laughter.]] [[PSD protests.]] From so much to escape this responsibility, with the inability to assume clear positions on whatever it is, the PSD, which has already been an important party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u376	And it is! And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u377	... both in the government and in the opposition, today is the madman in the middle of the bridge, who doesn't know if he's going there or coming here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u378	To reply, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u379	Madam President, Mr. Marcos Perestrello, I have also listened very carefully and let me tell you three things. First of all, he's absolutely in need...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u380	Indigent? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u381	... that on the very day we are discussing a motion of censure to the Government, the PS adopts as a strategy to ask what PSD solutions are. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u382	Zero! They don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u383	Today is the day to talk about what the government will do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u384	It's a mess to have proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u385	Secondly, to answer why the PSD votes in this way, I would like to remind you that abstention is not a yes or no, abstention is a way of voting, and a very responsible way of voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u386	Why don't you vote against it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u387	Mr President, if I may, I remind you that our Constitution, for example, prevents the dissolution of the House in the first six months. And why? Because it is conferred, to a government that has just been elected and to a constituted assembly, the possibility of forming a government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u388	Let's vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u389	And why do we think that an absolute majority government, which has been in power for nine months, should have the opportunity to retire? You can only improve, Prime Minister, but you must have the opportunity to retire!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u390	Let's vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u391	That is our opinion, but it is assumed. When Mr. Deputy says that PSD is an alternative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u392	I didn't say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u393	... have no doubt that this is an alternative. The PSD does not need to give proof of life, the PSD does not need to be populist, the PSD does not need to lay hands on all instruments. We're building an alternative, we'll be an alternative. For the Portuguese who want to shout this is not the best place, because we want to be power and be-CL - we will - as soon as the Portuguese people decide. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u394	For an intervention, Mr Francisco César, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u395	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : After some time of debate, many Portuguese will certainly be questioning why the Liberal Initiative has led to present this motion of censure. Was it, as you have said, just to show who on the right is the most daring and winning force, in the dispute with the Arrival and PSD, the trophy of the most lethal weapon of parliamentary criticism? That's what it looks like. [[CH protests.]] One thing is certain: either the Liberal Initiative wins, or the Arrival wins in this dispute between the parties on the right, which is proven, at the beginning and the arrival, is, once again, the simple service role of the PSD, always behind, always behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u396	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u397	Always behind, without seeing an idea for the country or the constructive sense that those who voted in it would, of course, like to see and hear. They say they're not a protest party, but they do little more than protest about everything, all the time. This has already been the case with Rui Rio, and so it continues with Montenegro. In the Azores, where it is destroyed only to save the government solution and where the purest party apparatusism reigns, they are in the hands of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] In the Assembly of the Republic they are on track. [[Protests from PSD MP Patrícia Dantas.]] A motion of censure, then, why? Was it because of the untimely irritation of the Liberal Initiative to see the economy grow and to see the job increase? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u398	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u399	Was it because it was against a lower budget deficit or because it disliked the reduction in public debt? Don't! Was it because you didn't like to know that there are almost 100 000 approved candidatures, of the most varied public and private entities, for the implementation of the PRR? Don't! Was it because they did not accept the agreements reached with the social partners, the medium-term agreement for public administration, the dignified work agenda, the tax relief of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and the historical rise of the national minimum wage? Don't! So it was because of the episode of the millionaire compensation, which is still being investigated, from a manager who did not get to warm up the seat as a governor and that neither the opposition nor the Prime Minister or the Ministers knew? I don't think so either. Was it for the IL to prove, on the eve of an internal electoral dispute, that it is united, at least to destroy? Maybe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seems not only that the vote on the motion of censure which the Liberal Initiative has tabled will prove what the Liberal Initiative and the oppositions did not want to be proved, that the oppositions do not know what they want, that the Government has a solid and stable majority in Parliament and that the Socialist Party, always in the exercise of its plurality, is and will be united, when necessary, to defend the government and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, to the IL, the minimum I have to say is not to criticize it for its inadequacy, its futility or the irresponsibility of its initiative. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] What the PS can do is thank you for the opportunity it gives us to once again show our unity and reaffirm our determination to, together, implement our programme and contribute to a better Portugal. That would not be necessary, but in your doubt, here will be our certainty! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u400	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u401	Mr President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Prime Minister, 2022 was a black year in the history of TAP, a year in which you decided to inject more than EUR 3000 million into it, and had our vote of confidence to do well. But no, that didn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u403	It happened that 3000 workers, or close to that, were unemployed; there were cuts in wages, which in some cases reached 50 %; suspicions of corruption in the purchase of aircraft, 20 % above the market cost; 79 BMWs bought, but which ended up not entering, in the pure makeup business that made the administration of TAP; it came to know that the manager, hired for 15 000 € / month, is the wife of the PT ( personnel trainer) of the CEO (executive chief officer) of the TAP ; there was the lease of a headquarters for 4 million euros a year at the National Park ; and, to conclude the year in beauty, we had the case Alexandra Reis. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sure it's time to end this administration, which has led TAP to ruin.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u405	Above all, Mr. Prime Minister, targets someone with competence, and not a ghost of José Socrates, in front of such an important ministry. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u406	For an intervention, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u407	Mr President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In nine months, the absolute majority of PS has become an absolute rebaldary. Mr. Prime Minister is isolated in his bubble and he is no longer able to recruit out of this bubble. Better said, in some cases, you are no longer able, even, to recruit out of the bubble of the intimacy of José Socrates. You are so isolated that you hear strange noises, you hear "bulls that win", but you don't hear reality, and reality are rotating doors that call everywhere around you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u408	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u409	Listening to imaginary cakes screaming, you don't hear the country, you suffer. Mr. Prime Minister, in front of successive exits, remodeling, remodeling, remodeling, remodeling. You no longer have a government programme, you have a remodeling programme. Strictly speaking, Mr. Prime Minister, this is no longer a government, it is one of those decoration programs where a team enters a house in ruins and, at the end of three days, leaves the house new. There are these programs, around there, on cable channels. There is a program of Canadian twins, there is also the Dear One, I changed the House — presented until recently by Gustavo Santos. You have become the Gustavo Santos of government remodeling. [[Rice from IL and from the neighbouring Member Filipe Melo.]] [[PS protests.]] The question, Prime Minister, is that, in my dear, I changed the house, in fact, the team goes in and at the end of three days the house is new. In your case, every time you remodel, the house gets worse. [[All right!]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u410	Your program is the "Dear, I've made it worse at home"! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, I told you, in this Parliament, that you were out of control and someone had to tell you. Today, I say to you, you have an exhausted government and the Liberal Initiative is here to tell you. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, take note, since you are making a record: we will not shut up. What Mr. Prime Minister has to offer to the Portuguese at this time is propaganda, it is a lie—... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... yes, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, a lie that was told to pensioners by Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security — is stagnation and poverty. Mr. Prime Minister, the Liberal Initiative is here to tell you that your government is exhausted, as much as it clings to power, as much as it hides behind the absolute majority. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u411	The Bureau shall record an application for clarification from the honourable Member. To that end, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u412	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rocha, let's talk again to the Real Country and leave the election campaign of the IL a little bit aside,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u413	It is « the IL», please!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u414	... because it is the work that guarantees our survival, it is the work that helps us live with dignity — and Mr Deputies belongs to the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion — which often brings us identity, allows us to create connections, partnerships and friendships. But work can also be all this on the contrary, i.e. it can be subversive, unstable, unpredictable, it can create -exhaustion, bring us inequality, steal us dreams, exclude us. After a pandemic that created us a double isolation, a war arises with dramatic consequences for all, but especially for the poorest, for the most unprotected, for the most disadvantaged. These will always be those who suffer the first clash in times of crisis, but it is also always for them and with them that the Socialist Party walks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u415	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u416	This path has led us to create countless opportunities to improve the quality of life of workers. It has led us to reduce inequalities, to create jobs, to qualify and requalify workers, to improve incomes, to promote vocational training, to value wages, to value people. The Portuguese recognize the work that this government has done, recognize when it speaks for and for young people, when it speaks for and for parents, when it speaks for and for the elderly, but also when it speaks for the middle class, for entrepreneurs, for public officials, for migrants. It is a government committed to increasing investment in social institutions, promoting the sustainability of our universal social protection system, a system that treats all equally. But it is also a government that takes the fight for decent work, for new forms of work relations, for the use of technology to better reconcile personal life with professional life. However, the government does not fight alone. This fight takes place with the social partners, workers' organisations and also with employers' organisations, because, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot and do not want to defend the interests of workers living from backs to employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u417	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u418	Therefore, many months ago, fulfilling this commitment to the social dialogue, the Government and the social partners signed an agreement on wages, taxation and income which is never too much to remember, defined a multiannual trajectory of real updating the national minimum wage with the aim of reaching at least €900 in 2026 ; but also the creation of an appropriate tax framework for companies, essential for strengthening the average wage, encouraging young employment and promoting collective bargaining. In addition to assuming responsibility as an employer, the Government signed an agreement on wage updates for employees of the Public Administration — the last time it had happened 24 years ago in 1999 — an agreement that has continued all the work that has been carried out since 2016. Mr President, what the Portuguese want to know, in particular, is what measures the Liberal Initiative has for them, for the workers, for those who need it most. And please do not give us the example of Romania again because, as you know very well, that is the Member State with the highest rate of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u419	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u420	Madam President-in-Office, Mrs Deputies, I am going to talk about Romania, contrary to what you asked me to do, and I will explain to you a simple economic concept: one thing is a stock, another thing is a flow. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is obvious that, even by the bulk of funds that has been received over time, Portugal has a wealth stock other than that of Romania, but in perspective, from now on, it also has a flow of wealth below that of Romania. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, if you continue with your policies over time, we will be behind Romania not only in annual GDP but also probably in many other things. It is a basic economy, and you have to study more to understand these things. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u421	Yeah, yeah! This is a shame, being sent to study the others! That's arrogant.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u422	Take it easy, take it easy! What I have to say about concrete measures is very simple. You always make the same number: in tax terms, the Portuguese resources are exhausted. They have absolutely astronomical tax revenues and then they do assistialism. We have presented a very simple measure, to which we call the flat tax of remedies, which would allow the lowest steps to be made available at a time of crisis, which we all recognize.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u423	Go ask the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u424	That went very well in England!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u425	You, with all your will, have dropped that support, which was to be given to the Portuguese workers who have lower incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u426	Go ask the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u427	You have that responsibility! And by the way, you guys talk so much...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u428	Go ask the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u429	Mr. May I? Oh, my God! Thank you. You speak so much about the Dignified Work Agenda — and I agree that work has to be worthy — that they should also invest in a worthy taxation agenda, on an agenda for taxation that is not extorting Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by PS member Eurico Brilliant Days and counterprotests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u430	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u431	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Exactly one year ago, the PS called for an absolute majority, multiplying in promises that have faded during these nine months of governance. He said that the absolute majority was a condition for political stability, certainly ignoring, on a purpose basis, that stability lies, above all, in its political options and in its response, or not, to the problems of the country. Political stability is stability in people's lives, but that is not the reality. Life is today marked by instability and uncertainty, by increasing difficulties resulting from the lack of response by the government to the problems that are there. They grow costs with housing, with electricity and gas, with food, but wages and pensions, these have lost purchasing power and will continue to lose because of government taxation. After all, what did the PS want with the absolute majority? It certainly was not to give stability and confidence to the lives of workers, pensioners and young people. One year later, life proved that the PS wanted the absolute majority to get rid of the preconditions of the previous period. This, yes, allowed returns and duties and recorded advances as a result of the intervention of the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u432	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u433	... but the PS wanted to be released to pursue the policy of favouring economic groups, as seen in the content of the State budget for 2022 — the most left of all, but which did not prevent the worsening of inequalities and injustices — deepened by the State budget for 2023. It was right for the PCP when it placed as a priority the need to adopt solutions to value wages and pensions, to repeal the serious standards of labour law, to strengthen the capacity of the SNS and to ensure access to housing, a priority that the PS refused. Instead of restoring and valuing purchasing power for wages and pensions, the Government has opted for its actual devaluation. During 2022, only with the effect of inflation, workers lost the equivalent of a salary and started to lose 2023 while for economic groups more tax benefits will be allocated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u434	Money in cash!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u435	The fact that the President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) said that he voted in favour of the State budget says a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u436	Say it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u437	Instead of controlling the prices of essential goods and services, which experienced further increases in 2023, which is an example of energy, the government opted for the transfer of EUR 3 billion to energy producers, directly subsidizing their obscene profits. Instead of adopting solutions to fix health professionals and to ensure the functioning of public health services, the Government opts for the closure of emergency services. He says he's temporary, but he's on his way to become definitive. Instead of valuing the profession and teaching career to meet the shortage of teachers in public school, the government opts for the introduction of new injustices in recruiting teachers in claiming that they are hired by the directors, disrespecting professional graduation. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Instead of blocking speculation, protecting the housing of families and ensuring access to housing, the government opts to maintain housing in a market logic that has already shown that it is not a solution. The Government's speech does not correspond to the concrete reality. He tries to side with the problems not to have to deal with them, but the fact is that the options of the government, consistent with the options of the parties to their right, and the lack of answers to the problems are responsible for worsening living conditions. The Liberal Initiative, in the motion of censure presented in the Assembly of the Republic, does not defend solutions that are urgent for the problems there. The path that points out is the intensification of the path pursued by the PS government, the promotion of economic groups which exacerbate inequalities and injustices as seen. Real wages are lower, but the profits of the economic groups, these, do not stop increasing. Only the profits of the main economic groups in the first months of 2022 have reached more than EUR 4 billion. But on this there is no criticism of the Liberal Initiative, because this is its political option: the economic groups to make more profits, while the workers and the reformers are poorer. Moreover, they voted against the increase in the national minimum wage to €850, nor did they criticise the transfer of EUR 140 million to the concessionaires of motorways and bridges, nor the increase in the toll imposed by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u438	We criticised!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u439	In the State budget for 2023, the Liberal Initiative voted against the PCP proposals for the increase in pensions, the valorization of the purchasing power of workers, the hiring of health professionals for primary health care, the freeness of the paperbooks, the strengthening of the support for the arts, the reduction of the value of the social pass to 20 €. The Liberal Initiative voted against, along with the PS. Faced with the difficulties in public school and SNS, what does IL have to say? « Privatize yourself, give yourself to private groups, who look at rights as another business opportunity. Do not keep on seeking. ” In view of the strategic importance for the country of a company such as TAP, what does IL say? “ Privatize, and disappear even better. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u440	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u441	Madam President, what must be censured is right-wing policy, which is played by PS, PSD, Arrival, IL and CDS. The CFP opposes the policy options of the PS Government, as opposed to the options of the Liberal Initiative. That is why we voted against this motion. What is urgent is to break this path and open the way for an alternative policy, patriotic and left-wing, of real increase in wages and pensions, of strengthening public services, of public school, of SNS, of guaranteeing the right to housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u442	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u443	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is urgent to put an end to the promotion of economic groups, which ensure a fair distribution of wealth created, which combats poverty, inequality and injustice; a policy that promotes national production, supports the productive sectors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which affirms and defends our sovereignty. That is our commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u444	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u445	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This government does not serve us, this government does not serve the Portuguese. No longer serves the tax burden record, while the Portuguese lose purchasing power. This government does not serve families when, after months in difficulty, with the increase in inflation and interest rates, it increases its revenue and does not dishonor them, does not present structural reforms, does not present effective responses to the Portuguese. Yes, the Government presents appreciable, populist measures. It presents a check in one month, one check in the other, all not to make it clear that in 2022 the government had extraordinary profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u446	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u447	Portugal needs to grow, but this government does not know how.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u448	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u449	In taxation, we were the fifth European OECD country ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) which increased the tax burden between 2010 and 2021. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u450	But it did not even represent an increase in the quality of public services. This is an example of education, where we are with endless strikes in view, with a government that fails students, teachers and the school community as a whole; a government that has failed in day care and an ambitious ministry in school mental health, in the recovery of learning and that is not ashamed to present and talk about data in which—it goes away! — it seems that students learned more from closed schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u451	You're in trouble!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u452	We do have to have an eximilar school, which does not reproduce social inequalities, which allows for equal opportunities. A country that is with the broken social elevator needs an education of excellence, it does not need us to work with these data — assessments, data and information that, in the hands of the government, are no more than misinformation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u453	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u454	The Liberal initiative has warned, but the Government has ignored and therefore we reaffirm: without economic growth there is no capacity of the country to retain young people; without economic growth there is no way to ensure dignified reforms; without economic growth there is no way to finance a public administration that values competence and merit; without economic growth there is no, there is no, there is no...! Portugal no longer grows because this government does not allow it to grow. Portugal no longer grows because this government is suffocating families, private initiative, risk capacity, all with taxes, bureaucracy and inefficiencies. We also know today that Portugal has descended six places at the World Competitiveness Ranking of the IMD ( International Institute for Management Development ). In spite of more tricks, tricks, makeup, the government always flaunts the reality of a more impoverished country and the tail of Europe ; a government that, nevertheless, is advertising the country with the PRR. We are, however, in a moment of recall of funds, of receipt of European funds which, in fact, are barred from inefficiencies, from bureaucracies, which are not well known where they are lost, from which vices are spent, or from which vices perpetuate. We should therefore now be opening up the news and talking about solutions, but we are opening up the news and talking about the destabilization of the government — a government that is serving itself or the party, but is not governing the country and therefore does not serve the Portuguese. Still about this ranking, it was said that political stability could be positive, but this government is currently in political instability. So, yes, we need a motion of censure. contrary to what we heard today from the PSD — which was another PSD 2 and we would like them to have accompanied us —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u455	Look what you're going to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u456	... we feel, yes, a sense of urgency. We need a new government, we need a new direction, we need a new future, because we need an alternative. No, Mr. Prime Minister, we don't get used to it. I shall finish with three points which have been mentioned today. The first is for Mr. Prime Minister, because he said he preferred composition or results, but what we are seeing is decomposition and bad results. Mr. Prime Minister also said that we want a crisis, but no, we want the end of the Portuguese crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u457	That's what it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u458	And Mr Brilliant Dias said that he separates the Liberal Initiative from the PS, that is true, he separates poverty from prosperity. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u459	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, also from the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u460	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : After seven years of socialist governments, various events undermine the confidence that the Portuguese have deposited in you. But we don't need to go back that far. Not a year has passed since the last legislative elections, and the scandals, cases and situations in which the public interest has not been guarded are no longer counted by the fingers of the hands. Let's see: in August, forest fires occurred; in September, IL denounced the existence of Chinese teams operating outside the law. What did Mr. Prime Minister say? That nothing knew and, at the height of his arrogance, he devalued the matter and told IL to resort to justice. We can also refer in September to the case of NATO documents ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) for sale in the darkweb, which tarnishes Portugal's reputation in the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u461	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u462	In October, there was news of the lack of role in the courts, which made them unable to operate, as if justice was no longer slow enough. In December, the "Perfect Storm" operation took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u463	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u464	Taking on this latter case, the Portuguese who hear us need to know what the Operation "Perfect Storm" is. This operation culminated in the arrest of high-ranking officers of the Ministry of Defence, within the framework of the works of the Military Hospital of Bethlehem, of which the Minister of Defence, at the time and currently Minister of Foreign Affairs, knew — as he knew of the alleged irregularities — and which he devalued. This is the government's modus operandi: it first hides the problems, then devalues them and, lastly, does not assume responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u465	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u466	This is the performance manual of António Costa. [[Applause from the IL.]] Potential corruption situations in the Ministry of Defence have serious consequences and therefore the negligence and slightity with which this government has dealt with the case is unacceptable. Perhaps all these situations explain why the various governments of the Prime Minister did not initiate a reform in justice, which makes it slower and gives it the effective tools to prevent and combat corruption: because it works. Unfortunately, however, we are not here. Mr. Prime Minister had the undoubtedness of publishing a New Year's message to young people. What were you young people thinking about? You give us Socialist Youth?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u467	Always! They're all there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u468	I hope that neither, because even the leader of the Socialist Youth himself, Miguel Costa Matos, cannot fail to recognize the revolt of young people. One in six young people can't get jobs and, of course, three in four earn less than €950. This doesn't even pay the rent of a house, Mr. Prime Minister. Even the youth leader of his own party recognizes that this government does not serve nor can it respond to the needs of young people. Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, help us call Mr. Prime Minister to reality. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] this new year, Prime Minister, many young people will continue to increase the ranks of emigration, which are the mark of their governments and are the result of your incompetence and incapacity. I don't want a government like the one with which the PS forces us to live. Our course and our future have to change, but to change, Antonio Costa and the Socialist Party have to leave the government now. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u469	For an intervention, Mr João Torres of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u470	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On January 30, 2022, the Portuguese voted for stability, an important triumph in the face of the adversities of European and international contexts, which the oppositions use, without shame, against the Government. These hardships are, to a large extent, explained by the war in Ukraine, which a year ago we would be, like our European peers, still far from guessing. But the Portuguese did not vote just for stability. They voted beyond stability. They voted for humanism and democracy, against demagogy, populism or extremism. Remember: the PS places red lines in front of the extreme right. The PSD and the Liberal Initiative walk in this opportunistic language. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese voted for the leadership of green and digital transitions, in line with the fight against climate change. We were the second largest economy in the European Union last year, with a record of foreign direct investment and a weight of exports of 50 % of the gross domestic product. The PS places a social market economy. Right responds with a casino economy. The Portuguese voted for the improvement of public services, especially in health and education, which we want to preserve universal and accessible to all. The PS sees the building of equality in the social state. The right sees an obstacle to neoliberal fanaticism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese voted for public social security, dignity of employment and the fight against poverty. Today there are fewer than 400 000 people at risk of poverty and the unemployment rate has fallen to half by 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has one reason to continue its work. The right is limited to finding a defeatist inevitability. The Portuguese voted for the value of income, which must continue, so that we are a country of opportunity for all, in social cohesion and territorial cohesion. The PS, it matters to remember, increases wages and pensions. We all know which way would take the right, in the face of a crisis with the magnitude of this which is faced by Portugal, Europe and the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the history of the first ten months of this government honours the commitments made by the PS with the voters. What frustrates the right is that the results of the year 2022 force the oppositions to rewrite the script. It's true that no one expects changes from arriving, but PSD has an obligation to be more than a mere sound bits game... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... and the Liberal Initiative must abandon this way of doing opposition, which does not pass from a kind of ranking tape, which is spent and which does not stick to reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that an inflationary crisis with this dimension was not on the government's map, neither here nor in any other country, as the pandemic was or were no other adverse contexts that we have successfully faced over the past seven years. We know and are aware of the difficulties that the Portuguese feel, every day or every month, when they go to the supermarket or pay their household bills — these accounts that have been mitigated by an energetic action by the government, both for families and for businesses, with the mobilization of EUR 6400 million, only last year, a value that compares with that of the worst time of the pandemic. We reaffirm today, in the Socialist Party, that the PS response to the crises is diametrically different from the right response. In the face of the crises, the Socialist Party has responded and will continue to respond with solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, does anyone believe that the right hand is an alternative today? Does anyone believe that the right will manage a crisis better? Does anyone believe that the right option would be solidarity and appreciation of income?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u471	It's 400 000 voters!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u472	This motion of censure, as proved today in this debate, was just an irresponsible act and an inconsequential act. Not one year back on the holding of elections, the presentation of the second motion of censure to the Government shows once again that the dispute over the leadership of the opposition to the right is the only thing that concerns the parties on the right in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, the Liberal Initiative can reject a certain collage to arrive, in style, but the fact is that the glue is there. [[CH protests.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the Liberal Initiative, which presents this Motion of Censorship, the Socialist Party is the heir party to the political liberal movements that were at the origin of the first Constitution at the beginning of the 19th century.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u473	It should be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u474	The PS is heir to the values and the Republican idea, which led to the implementation of the Portuguese Republic at the beginning of the 20th century. The PS is the heir to movements that fought the dictatorship underground and helped to establish and consolidate democracy almost 50 years ago. over the last five decades we have been the party to individual freedoms, social rights, the National Health Service or Europe, « against winds and against tides ». [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Already in this millennium, in the face of crises, we are fighting austerity, fighting the pandemic, watching for the growth and the right accounts. It would not, and it would not be, now, in the face of vicissitudes and fundamentally in the face of a serious international crisis, that the PS will let itself be cantoned or diminished. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we well know what the Portuguese expect of us: that we should govern and implement our Government Programme. That is what we have done and that is what we will continue to do, because, in difficult times, the PS does not turn its back on Portuguese, the PS has said and will always say « present». [[IL protests.]] The PS will not fail Portugal. The PS will not fail Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u475	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u476	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a bad government, but we all knew that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u477	Everyone, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u478	It's not from now on. By the time the Censorship Motion was presented by the Arrival in July, this government would have to fall. It was in the face that this government did not serve Portugal. The curious thing is what happened in this debate. The PSD criticized, criticized, criticized, shipwrecked here, shipwrecked there, but now, in voting time, what are you going to do? Abstention. Yes, ma'am! They say: "We are a responsible party, we are not a protest party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u479	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, what the PSD is not opposed to this government. That's what the PSD isn't right now. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The question is whether we should be like this or whether something has to be done. We have a number of reasons for this government to fall. We could talk about cases such as that of Miguel Alves, who has not yet been talked about here today, or of the 300 thousand euros that flew from the Caminha chamber you don't know where to go. But let's start with that tip of the government bench : Mrs. Minister of Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa, promised in this House that they were going to lower the portuguese. The first measure, at midnight on day 1, was to historically increase tolls in Portugal. We followed by the new Minister João Galamba, who, besides having been a student of José Socrates, is also connected to some of the lithium business, let's see which ; the Minister of Health Manuel Pizarro, when I look at him only remember the chaos in health — yesterday, 14 hours at Loures hospital waiting to be attended, 10 hours at Santa Maria Hospital. We follow, Minister of Education— teachers in protest, students without classes—the Minister of Culture, hear Portuguese that this is important, spent 400 000 € on Paula Rego's work, repeat, 400 000 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u481	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u482	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u483	The Portuguese receive 200 € and 300 € of pension, work for 500 € and 600 €, but spend 400 000 € on Paula Rego's work. Shame, Minister for Culture! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We could continue on: Minister of Finance, Minister of Internal Administration — the security forces are very happy with you! — and would continue until the end of the bench, it would pass through everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u484	What about me?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u485	You're the boss, you're the leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u486	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u487	I will finish, Mr. President. This is no longer a government, I don't know if it's the beloved I've changed the house or something, what I know is that it's a boat to sink. Mr. Prime Minister, there was no need for motions of censure, he would, he would go out, make a statement to the press and say: "I'm leaving, this government does not serve Portugal". [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u488	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u489	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Faces and Dear Members: PSD is a party with a sense of state, it is not a party of protest or niche.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u490	Don't forget the sentence!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u491	We do not align ourselves with totally inconsequential tactics or demagogic and populist maneuvers. We are neither on the side of inconsistencies nor on the side of incompetence...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u492	That's why they have the absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u493	...we're for responsibility. [[PSD applause.]] But we do not exempt ourselves from the scrutiny of the inactivity of the government, and this government has to solve the problem of people. Mr. Prime Minister was elected exactly 11 months ago for that. So do it - concentrate on it, stop thinking about Europe or its political future or how to manage the terrible child Pedro Nunes Santos, to have inner peace. Don't play with serious cases and rule the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u494	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u495	... so that the Portuguese see their condition and quality of life improved, since Mr. Prime Minister shows himself unable to reverse the cycle of impoverishment of people. The government is on a delusional take-off route of reality. Yesterday, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs boasted in this House that—it is over! — the government is cohesive. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. What country are the members of the government living in? [[PSD applause.]] This is a government that has changed 12 members in nine months.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u496	Then you have to leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u497	He is in complete disintegration and on a path of self-destruction and he who does not know how to rule his house, does not know how to rule the country. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, let the missing ministers and ministers appear in combat. Where are the ministers of defence, justice, agriculture, social security and education? No one sees them anywhere doing anything. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u498	This is a non-existent, conformed, demobilized, energyless government, accommodated in its sovereignty and without reformist momentum. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] This reliced government no longer goes there with the repair or replacement of a piece or any other part. Portugal needs a government. So either the government changes its life or it will be the Portuguese changing their government. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Marcos Perestrello.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u499	Could not connect with command "%s": %s. For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor. I ask everyone to listen to you with the attention you deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u500	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Francisco César: The honourable Member said from the rostrum that the PS was very close, so I ask you whether 10 resignations in the government are union. I ask you, too, whether Pedro Nuno Santos leaves the National Secretariat of the PS is union; if half of the bench does not beat you palms is union... [[PS protests.]] I know that your concept of union is broad, indeed Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias spoke of our internal life... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u501	I ask the services that interrupt the counting of time, until there are conditions for the speaker to be heard and I ask everyone to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u502	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias spoke about IL's internal life. I know that by its bench, the concept of union is side:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u503	Much more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u504	... he was very close to Antonio José Seguro, now he is very close to Antonio Costa and he will certainly be very close to whom to follow. But here are principles to be met. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. João Torres has disrespected millions of Portuguese when he has the arrogance to ask who he believes in an alternative and who he does not believe in the Socialist Party. Mr President, I am replying to you: millions of Portuguese who have not voted in the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u505	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u506	And whose vote must be respected—and perhaps now there are many more. Mr Prime Minister, the first time you entered the government was in 1995. When the Prime Minister says that the country is less bad than what was before, sometimes it seems to forget that since then it has been present in six governments. So the responsibility of the country is bad before and now, perhaps, not so bad — to be a little better or equal, congratulations! — it is also yours and the Socialist Party. Who put the country in chaos before and in chaos now was the Socialist Party. This is what we already have today: we already have a political crisis today, we already have a social crisis today, we already have an economic crisis today. So I repeat what I said yesterday to the PSD: it is irresponsible to leave everything as it is, responsible is to get this government out of there. [[Applause from the IL.]] But this is the first time that we see Mr Prime Minister, after an interview he gave a few weeks ago, I would like to ask him, firstly, whether he will continue to review himself or whether he will apologize for calling us « those who win». [[PS protests.]] I also ask whether you will apologize to the Portuguese for, every day, every week—as several Members of the Socialist Party have already come to recognize in the press—to realize the institutional dignity of the Prime Minister's office. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is that Mr. Prime Minister is very busy giving interviews to defamate political opponents, while the Portuguese have seen his purchasing power diminish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u507	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u508	Today, the real wages of the Portuguese are worth less than in the year preceding the year in which the government took possession. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, I repeat to you that the real wages in 2023 are worth less than in 2014. This is impoverishment, repeat, impoverishment. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] I understand that liberal checkers are disturbing, because they make opposition! But, Prime Minister, I wanted to tell you about some « what» : « what» did the PS do in the economy? 4, 5 million poor! 70 % of Portuguese earn less than 1000 € and, at an increase of 800 € to 900 €, the state takes half. "What" did the PS do in health? endless waiting lists, 1, 5 million Portuguese without a family doctor and closed emergencies. What did the PS do in politics? Cases in the Government between 15 and 15 days, escape from the scrutiny of parliamentary committees every month, the total degradation of political institutions. [[Protests of PS Members.]] That is why my final 'what' for you, Prime Minister, is to ask you 'what' is still sitting there in the place of the Prime Minister. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u509	As there are no more speakers in this stage of the debate, we are moving to the closing stage. To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u510	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is expected of political leaders in times of crisis is that they respond to the problems of the present and build the future. That is what this government has done over the past year, continuing its Programme and adjusting policies to a situation that has radically changed weeks before the Executive takes over. When the government took possession in March, the great criticism made by the parties on the right was that the government was not prepared to respond to the crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u511	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u512	...to combat its effects and support the Portuguese, as it would only comply with its Programme, without the ability to adjust it to the new reality which it had taken into account from Europe. But the government has adapted its path to the reality that we live in and, between direct support and price mitigation measures, invested EUR 6, EUR 4 billion, the value equivalent to the support of a pandemic year. And once again, once we have responded to the challenges that have taken place, the opposition's speech has changed again and in recent months they have always repeated the same three keys: the government is tired, the government is out of the way and has lost the capacity for dialogue and negotiation. I am very easily responding to these three arguments: a government, allegedly tired, has managed that economic growth should once again beat all national and international forecasts. Shortly after we took possession, the forecast of economic growth was 4.9%; today we estimate that it was 6, 8 %, plus two percentage points. A government that says "no" guaranteed with the Iberian Mechanism, with the wagering on renewables and with the investment we have made—that the critical opposition has been several years ago—that the Portuguese are among the least feeling the increase in energy throughout Europe. A government that would not be able to dialogue, has signed a very important social agreement and the first wage agreement of this century's public service, which will give predictability and will contribute to the increase in the weight of wages in the total wealth of the country. There is a reason for the opposition, especially the right-wing one, not to want to talk about policies and just talk about the media agenda: it is that they know that, even in the unstable climate that passes across Europe, the government has a course, is running its programme and responding even to the problems felt by the Portuguese in their day-to-day... [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is responding to the real problems that the Portuguese face rather than the artificial problems that feed the agenda of the oppositions. The government has never denied the size of the crisis, nor has it hesitated in the necessary response: we have adopted measures to limit the impact of inflation and to support families and businesses. The First Family Programme enabled more than EUR 2, EUR 4 billion to support the income of families, the limit of the increase of income to 2 % was imposed, the VAT applicable to basic electricity consumption was reduced from 13 % to 6 %, the transition to the regulated gas market was allowed and the support to companies totaled EUR 1600 million. It introduced whether the Iberian Mechanism — a temporary and exceptional instrument — which allowed consumers to save about 20 % in electricity bill. We are fighting in Europe, successfully, to ensure the relief of pressure on the price of electricity as we had done, in fact, in defense of a joint response to the pandemic. The government has a way and has done what it is competing for: giving an answer to the present, without ever neglecting the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, never in the past, nor today, did the government hide behind the environment to stop pursuing the path that it has defined, a path of valuing incomes, protection of those who need it and bet on innovation. We've always reconciled the emergency and the structural road we're going through. So it was when we reconciled the exit of the excessive deficit procedure with the return of income policy, when the right guarantee the failure and almost seemed to be longing for it. This was the case when we reconciled the stabilization of the financial system with the sustainability of the public accounts, when the right continued to repeat that Portugal would never again have international credibility. This was the case when we reconciled the effective response to the health crisis with the protection of employment and with the strengthening of our companies, when the right was paralyzed by the demands of the necessary measures or even assumed negationist phrases of the pandemic. That is also what we have been doing since April, ensuring that the crisis of war and inflation does not divert us from the path of deepening the social state, modernising our economy and growing prosperity. The right is invariably waiting for a meeting of the Portuguese with the misfortune, chaos, the devil — the words are changing. The government is invariably side by side with the Portuguese, responding to the problems that arise in their day-to-day lives. That is why we protect families and the most vulnerable, and here we are going to pursue the path of strengthening social responses, combating poverty and reducing inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We approved the SNS Statute and appointed its executive direction because we felt it was necessary to strengthen the management instruments. We started free daycare, which, by 2024, will reach 100 000 children. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] We approved the Children's Guarantee to combat child poverty, which in 2023 will provide support for over €100 to more than 155 000 children. With the implementation of PRR investments, we will strengthen primary health care with more than 100 health centres, develop mental health responses, modernize social responses and increase vacancies in day care centers, and we will still face one of the greatest challenges of our society, housing, increasing from 2% to 5% the public housing park in the coming years. [[Is that for when?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u513	We support companies in these times of crisis and continue the path of structural transformation for an economy that sees innovation, the quality of working relationships, the qualifications of people and the climate transition their competitiveness factors, leaving that race to the bottom in the rights and wages that the right banks always defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have submitted to this House the Agenda for Deserving Work, which has already been approved in general, and we will combat unjustified precariousness and temporary work. We signed, in social agreement, the medium-term agreement for the improvement of income, wages and competitiveness and signed with the public administration trade unions the multi-annual agreement on the valuation of their workers, ensuring predictability and revision of the single pay table ( TRU ), which they long longed for. We have strengthened the capacity installed in renewable energy sources, in particular solar energy, which will make a decisive contribution in 2026 to reaching the 80 % target of renewables in electricity production four years before the forecast. We have supported the energy renewal of the housing of more than 70,000 families under the PRR. We also placed in the PRR on urban mobility as a central element of the climate agenda. We approved the Environment + Simple package, which makes a profound reform in licensing, allowing to accelerate the investments needed to combat climate change. We maintained the stake in diversifying the export capacity of our economy, which allowed us to anticipate from 2027 to 2022 the export target for the value of 50 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u514	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u515	We placed on the ground the 51 Mobilizing Agendas, with more than EUR 7 billion for innovation and reindustrialisation, which will bring us new products, new services and thus better wages and more opportunities for young people and workers. Also within the framework of the PRR, the inclusion of more than 12 000 new beds in student accommodation is being achieved, which will contribute to achieving the target of 60% of young people aged 20 years of age attending higher education. In 2022, we exceeded the target set for the implementation of Portugal 2020, concluded the negotiation of Portugal 2030 programmes, and have already awarded two thirds of the RPP money. Here we are to continue this path of improving the lives of Portuguese and our companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a double crisis, of war and inflation, the government has focused on the course it has chosen and has continued to improve people's lives and prepare the country for the future. In essence, this explains that the opposition concentrates on presenting a motion of inconsequential censorship—not just because it will not happen, but because it does not convince anyone, nor the right opposition! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u516	OPSD is not on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u517	... and left politics and policies, progress and responses to the government. It is that, while the opposition guarantees, week after week, that the government is tired and exhausted, we have maintained the course, the capacity for dialogue and negotiation, presenting results in what really counts: protecting people, recovering the economy and moving the country forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u518	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u519	It would be thought that ruling is more tiring than just pointing your finger and saying that everything is going wrong. But, after all, where do we see fatigue, where do we see exhaustion? Today we know that where we see tiredness and exhaustion is in opposition benches! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from PSD and CH Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u520	The Minister has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u521	I will finish, Mr. President. This is visible not only because it is in the opposing benches that we see more changes in leadership and protagonists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u522	It's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u523	...but mainly, because in politics there is no greater sign of fatigue and exhaustion than nothing to say, nothing to propose, nothing to debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u524	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u525	We know the challenges and the government does not close their eyes on the problems and do not excuse taking their mistakes and, above all, correct them, to continue to respond to the crisis, to mobilize companies for a more competitive economy, to have more and better jobs, to have a more just and equal society, to strengthen our role in Europe, fighting for greater cohesion and solidarity. We are sure on our way, which is not only the way of government, but an ambition for the country. We will fulfill our mission; so do the opposition as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u526	Come on, stand up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u527	To close the debate, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u528	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in a recent interview, with arrogant and majestic pose, the Prime Minister told the Portuguese: "Welcome! Do not keep on seeking. ” The Liberal Initiative today says precisely the opposite: no, Prime Minister, we do not get used to it! [[Applause from the IL.]] This justifies the motion of censure we bring. We do not get used to a state of government, a country in which the main blocking force is its government. We do not habitually see Portugal fall, year after year, to the worst rates of the European Union, surpassed by States that have come into it long after us. We don't get used to seeing a country where the average wage is getting closer to the minimum wage. We do not get used to the tax burden that suffocates families and businesses to unbearable levels that discourage work and investment. We do not habitually live in a country where much of the wealth produced by the Portuguese is confiscated by the State. We are not used to living in a country with 2 million poor people, while another 2 million are at risk of poverty: it is more than 40% of the national population. We don't get used to a country with a collapsed health system. We didn't get used to it, we didn't even sign up. So today we raise our voice with this motion of censure here. We did not resign to this Portugal so "little", to repeat an expression that António Costa used before being Prime Minister. We do not resign ourselves to seeing thousands of qualified young people who do not find decent work opportunities here. Portugal is today the country of the European Union with more emigrants in proportion to the resident population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u529	Today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u530	This is the shocking portrait of a stagnant country, a stagnation with the brand of PS, with the brand of António Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u531	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a year ago, the country was on electoral campaign and Antonio Costa asked for a stable majority for Portuguese. The voters have done you the will, but many are, of course, already sorry today. The PS left these elections with an absolute majority, but it did not bring stability to the country, on the contrary. Today, we all see that the greatest focus of instability comes from the government, from this government which, in nine months, has lost more than a dozen ministers and government secretaries, in a series of bullshits in which the Prime Minister is not unpunished. These jokes led António Costa to publicly disauthorise a minister on the location of the future Lisbon airport, canceling an office published 24 hours earlier. Even so, the minister was not dispatched. These jokes led the Prime Minister to choose, in order to coordinate the Government, an Under-Secretary of State who was soon forced to resign for suspicion of a prevarication crime. These jokes led the Government to appoint the Secretary of State of the Treasury, with the protection of TAP, a former administrator of the same company, who had since left with a millionaire compensation, without any apparent knowledge of the Council of Ministers or specifically of the ministers protecting the company. How is it possible, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 July, we discussed and voted another motion of censure. At the time, as we said, there was already incompetence and incapacity on the part of this government. We were five months after the elections, three months after the takeover and with a State budget in force a week ago. The government had legitimacy and responsibility to govern. We then had another difference with the motion presented. She said that it would be enough for the government to change some pieces, change some actors, and that if so, it could even be removed. For us, that was insufficient. The biggest problem has always been in the policies of the governments of António Costa, which now joins another factor, that of instability, and this instability is the sole fault of the Prime Minister. [[Applause from the IL.]] From 6 July to today, what did this Government offer to Portugal and Portuguese? Oh, my God! In August alone, it was the growing chaos in hospital emergencies, culminating in the resignation of the Minister of Health ; the failed recruitment by the Minister of Finance, a strategic consultant to assess the impact of public policies ; the resignation of the President of the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional), after being notified that he received an unemployment allowance that he was not entitled to; the attack of the Minister of Agriculture to a social partner, for advising voters not to vote in the PS ; the fires in the Serra da Estrela, with errors in prevention and combat and a state secretary to claim that after all, he burned less than 30 % of the algorithm and the Minister Mariana Vieira da Silva to ensure that the natural park would even get better than it was. In September Eurostat ( Statistical Office of the European Union ) revealed that Portuguese young people were the ones who left their parents in 2021 — in Portugal, the average is 33 years, and the European Union average is 26.5 years. The Minister of Economy is publicly disallowed by two of his State Secretaries, after suggesting the decline of the IRC (tax on the income of the public) ; the start of the school year had 60 000 students without teachers throughout the country. There was also the pension trick: the government speaking of an increase, without explaining that this meant real loss of purchasing power for the pensioners and a change in the calculation formula that reduces pensions in the future. The Liberal Initiative denounced in Parliament three Chinese informal teams in Portugal and the Prime Minister said nothing to know and is still silent today. It was also known that the husband of the Cohesion Minister benefited from funds. The money has not been returned and the Minister remains in office. In November the Deputy Secretary of State of the Prime Minister resigned after weeks of controversy over a contract-promised for the construction of a phantom exhibition centre; the autumn forecasts of the European Commission say that the per capita GDP of Romania will exceed that of Portugal in 2024. [[PS protests.]] In December... Continuation of PS protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u532	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, just to ask that you may have the conditions you deserve to give your speech. I ask the Chamber to be silenced so that we can hear the speaker. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u533	Thank you, Mr. President. I know the truth is uncomfortable, but I'm going to continue with it. In December, the detention of high-ranking officers of the Ministry of Defence took place within the framework of the work of the Military Hospital of Bethlehem. The Minister of Defence, now with the foreign affairs portfolio, knew of the spillovers and suspicions of irregularities and nevertheless still appointed the person concerned for other functions within the same Ministry. Mariana Vieira da Silva finally recognized in this House that without the PRR the country would not grow in the coming years; it is then known that the compensation of half a million euros of TAP to Alexandra Reis is known ; Fernando Medina resigns the Secretary of State; Pedro Nuno Santos also resigns, forcing a mini-remodeling. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there had already been incapacity, the incompetence grew and in these months the government instability and this instability undermines the confidence of the Portuguese. This absolute majority hurts the country, because it has become absolute power, denying what António Costa promised. In fact, this is what we verify in this House of the Republic when the PS systematically vetoes the presence of members of the Government, preventing the polling of this House; this is what happens in this Chamber when the Prime Minister confuses dialogue with insult, even when he is worthy to appear here with such arrogant possession that he exhibited in that interview to the Vision. Antonio Costa speaks, speaks, speaks and nothing answers. In fact, nothing answers, no reports and no clarifications, as if the Government, as a constitutional imperative, should not answer before this Assembly of the Republic. There are responses that must be given with maximum urgency, responses that are related, for example, to the application of European funds. António Costa, since we entered the European Union, has been the most benefited Prime Minister with foreign money — this year alone almost EUR 11 billion. How is that money being applied, Prime Minister? With what priorities? At what speed? At what rate of execution? This is a fundamental issue which has already deserved serious notice from the President of the Republic. And what's the future of TAP? It should be remembered that TAP was a company that was privatized. And when Antonio Costa arrived at the government, what did he do? He renationalized it and, irresponsiblely, he decided to reverse it, costing Portuguese EUR 3, EUR 2 billion. Will the bill be around here? Will we continue to watch the seizures, by order of the Ministry of Finance, which disfigure successive State budgets approved in this House? And where are the promised family doctors who would not miss any national citizen? This is another failed promise of the Prime Minister, having today nearly 1, 5 million Portuguese without access to a family doctor. The government team is changed, but health services continue to collapse. And why? Because they don't change policies. The PS has been in power for seven years and continues to postpone answers to these serious questions, which are not cases and cases. There are no answers because there are no reforms. It is increasingly evident what is the method of António Costa to realize that solves the problems: postpone everything and push the problems with the belly. This Prime Minister is the face of the anti-reform and body the stagnation of Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some recommend that it is unwise to present this motion of censure in the House of Democracy. We asked: are you waiting for what? May the country sink further? What does Portugal continue to differ from the European Union? Do you not realize that this absolute power of socialists reads the national interest? The jokes confirm that there is not only one route problem, there is even a problem in your pilot. from this last government crisis comes out an even more fragile minister of finance, resulting in evidence of a Prime Minister unable to recruit reinforcements outside the bubble of the government and the Socialist Party, being already transparent fractures in the socialist majority itself, and the country at the mercy of its internal conflicts. The President of the Republic, in his end-of-year message, could not have been more clear by demanding absolute responsibility from the Government, which is a clear sign that it has not existed. Mr President of the Republic also referred to the errors of organic, uncoordinated, lack of transparency and take-off of reality — all these alerts that the Liberal Initiative has made over the months. Mr President of the Republic said basically what many Portuguese people think today, including many of those who would have voted on the PS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating and voting today is not whether the regular functioning of the institutions — this is an exclusive diagnosis and competence of the President of the Republic — what we are debating and voting here today is the failure of governance, which is disastrous, as we have already concluded, due to lack of competence and exhaustion of a model that has already proved to fail. on our part, we say that an alternative to this exhaustion framework is not only possible as it is desirable. Moreover, in democracy there are always alternatives. on our part, we do not escape any responsibility, whatever it is, so we will continue to fight for a reform of the state, for a constitution without ideological divides, for the consistent fall of tax burden, for freedom of choice in health and education, for the fight against bureaucracy and for Portugal to grow. If this government is part of the problem rather than the solution, we vote against this government, without complex and without reverence to the Socialist Party. We have the dream of transforming Portugal, and we will get it. This is just another step against an absolute, single-party power, which has become synonymous with stagnation, incompetence and instability, because Portugal deserves better, because Portugal even needs much better. [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u534	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our appreciation of the motion of censure. We will move on to the voting period, and I remember that we will have an electronic vote in this case. I would ask the services to open the quorum verification period and to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] I ask the services to advertise the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] Since there is quorum, we shall therefore proceed to the vote of the motion for a Censorship No 2 / XV / 1. a (IL) — In defence of the institutions and by the end of the political, economic and social degradation to which the Government has led the country. [[Having put to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, having recorded 126 votes against (119 of the PS, 6 of the PCP and 1 of the L), 19 votes in favour (11 of the CH and 8 of the IL) and 79 abstentions (73 of the PS, 5 of the BE and 1 of the NAP).]] The motion of censure was therefore rejected. [[PS applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we say goodbye to the government, asking you to use maximum silence to leave the Chamber. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u535	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 350 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 351 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 352 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 357 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 358 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-05.u536	Thank you very much, Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our plenary session tomorrow has two very important features: firstly, it starts at 9 a.m.; secondly, it is very dense. the first item on the agenda for tomorrow is the thematic debate required by the PSD on the record sector. of the second point is the joint assessment of the Bill No 30 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 2161 on consumer protection and draft Law No 382 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the environmental labelling of food products by amending Decree-Law No 138 / 90 of 26 April and 438 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recognizes the right to environmental protection and ecologically responsible consumption in the Consumer Protection Act. of the third point is the discussion of the Bill No 32 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish certification rules for the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of inland waterway vessels for transposition of Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 2397, 2020 / 12 and 2021 / 1233. of the fourth point is the debate of the Bills Nos 380 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Revision of the SIFIDE II scheme for the elimination of abuse and encouragement of real investment for research, development, technological innovation and energy transition, 422 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — eliminates the tax benefits allocated under SIFIDE to investment funds and contributions to investment funds and venture capital, or to the acquisition of social equity, 424 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It creates incentives for business investment in environmental sustainability by amending the Fiscal Code for Investment and Decree-Law No 8 / 2007 of 17 January, 431 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends SIFIDE and allocates its financial resources to research and development policies ( R & D ), making the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 162 / 2014 of 31 October 2014 and 439 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Investment Tax Code by revising the system of tax incentives for research and business development. of the fifth point is the joint discussion of draft resolution No 102 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By conducting an updated study on the characterization of Roma communities living in Portugal and the Bill No. 430 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to combat discrimination against foreign citizens by amending various diplomas. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more to be dealt with, the sitting is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 4 minutes.]]
