ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We have quorum and we can start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries to the public. We have no record reading today. Therefore, we enter the first item on our agenda, resulting from the scheduling by the Liberal Initiative, of the discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 572 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Transfer the headquarters of the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IP to the city of Portimão, amending Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August, 596 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Transfer the headquarters of Infarmed, IP to the city of Porto, amending Decree-Law No 46 / 2012 of 24 February, and 690 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Transfer the seat of the National Communications Authority to the city of Viseu, amending Decree-Law No 39 / 2015 of 16 March, the seat of the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds to the city of Castelo Branco, amending Decree-Law No 1/ 2015 of 6 January, the seat of the Regulatory Entity of Energy Services to the city of Leiria, amending Decree-Law No 97 / 2002 of 12 April, and the seat of the Competition Authority to the city of Santarém, amending Decree-Law No 125 / 2014 of 18 August, of the discussion of the Draft Resolution No 575 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends the relocation of various bodies the installation of all new public administration bodies within the country, and the general discussion of draft Law No 694 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Defines the auscultation process and the assessment process prior to the eventual relocation of public collectives, and 702 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the reinforcement of the funds allocated to the municipalities of the territories of the interior of the country, listed in Portaria No 208 / 2017, of 13 July, through the Local Finance Act, Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. The common theme for all these initiatives is the transfer of headquarters from public entities. To present the proposals of the Liberal Initiative, I will give the floor to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a centralist country. I was a centralist 20 years ago. During the intervention, a document was designed in PowerPoint entitled « Centralism in Portugal », with graphs that can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u3	Unfortunately, it was already 200!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u4	It was 200 already, yeah, maybe. [[Pause.]] PowerPoint, five minutes ago, was working.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u5	There's no stack! There's no money to buy pile!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u6	That is indeed the only difficult part in the presentations. Therefore, I ask the services that resume the time at zero and Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto will begin his intervention. Is the beast already dominated? [[Pause.]] That's it. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u7	These liberal faggots!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u8	Mr. President: We have a centralist country. He has been a centralist for 20 years and has become more and more. In the last 20 years, Portugal has lost its population. Almost all regions of the country have lost population. Among the few exceptions is one that stands out, which is the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, which has accumulated more than 200 000 residents since 2001. It is as if the population of the Upper and Lower Alentejo regions had entered these years. As the country shrinks, capital is growing and concentrating more and more population and economic activity. More than 200 000 people are looking for housing in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. the last time you looked at the data, 40% of the population living in Lisbon was from other parts of the country. No other region has such a population coming from other parts of the country. Many people from other regions are forced to migrate to Lisbon, to progress in their careers or simply to get a job. Many never return to their regions of origin. They are established in Lisbon definitely, contributing to the desertification of the rest of the country and further exacerbating regional inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u9	Hey, that's so cool!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u10	This migration is particularly marked among the most qualified frameworks. Although we have spread universities all over the country, a large number of qualified young people leave the region where they live or studied. Many emigrate abroad and, among those left, a large part migrates to the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. Portugal has a problem with a lack of ability to retain young talents — Portugal as a whole — but outside Lisbon, the problem is double. These regions lose graduates abroad, but also for capital. The country's inability to retain qualified young people also goes this way. For those who have to leave their homeland, what difference does it really make if the destination is Lisbon, Madrid or London? Some choose Lisbon, but many, having to leave anyway, prefer other capitals with even higher wages. This internal migration of talent happens because job opportunities and wage progression are highly centralized in Lisbon. The differences in income between Lisbon and the rest of the country are very high. There are differences between the coast and the interior, that is true, but contrary to what is thought, the great difference of opportunities in the country is not between the coast and the interior, is between the metropolitan area of Lisbon and the rest of the country, with the port somewhere in an intermediate situation. in this chart, we can see the difference in average income between Lisbon and the other district capitals. The speaker referred to the graph « Average yield( 2019 ) ». Aveiro, which is 3. the district capital where income is higher, is still closer to Portalegre, which has the lowest incomes of all district capitals, than Lisbon. We have two divisions in the country. This is a portrait of a country at two speeds, where even municipalities with many infrastructures, such as Aveiro, Setúbal, Coimbra or Braga, cannot even compare to Lisbon in terms of average income. If the country as a whole has already been caught by Romania, as regards GDP (gross domestic product) per capita, there are regions of the country that no longer have countries in the European Union to which they can be compared. This macrocephaly is generating and perpetrating inequalities. We have a political, business and media elite within the same social bubble, within the same geography, is a way of prolonging the inequalities of birth. This makes it very complicated for those who are born outside this bubble to have the same opportunities. Centralism is also a barrier to social mobility. This inequality is promoted by political choices on the functioning of the State. According to the statistics normally used to measure the level of state centralism, which is the expenditure of the central State in total public administrations, Portugal is one of the most centralist countries in the European Union. Almost 90 % of the public expenditure of the State shall be made by the central administration. This compares very badly with the Nordic countries and Germany, for example, where it is about half. Much of the central government's purchases, in turn, are made by agencies based in Lisbon, which in turn buy suppliers, also located in Lisbon. Central government jobs in Lisbon also attract a set of services. This is the vicious circle of centralism, in which a large central administration, concentrated in Lisbon, feeds an economy around it, which also ends up concentrated in Lisbon, concentrating increasingly on economic activity and employment opportunities in capital, emptying the rest of the country. That is why relocation of central government bodies is a fundamental step towards territorial cohesion. With these bodies, qualified jobs, knowledge and the whole system of suppliers will be relocated around these bodies. Dislocation is also an opportunity to bring some bodies closer to the sectors they protect. Does it even make sense to have a Wine and Wine Institute near the Marquis de Pombal and not the Douro? Finally, relocation will also be an opportunity to relieve the pressure on capital and free buildings for housing, improving the lives of all residents. Dislocation of central government agencies is an important step towards having a less centralist country, with less regional inequality, greater ability to retain talents and more social mobility. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that at the end of this plenary, many will return to their homelands — indeed, by the quorum, many have already returned — even among those who have already settled in Lisbon. They will travel today to the North, to the islands, to the Alentejo, to the Algarve, to the Beers, where they will find the relatives who stayed there. What message do you want to bring? The message that they have contributed today so that the children of these people have more employment opportunities or the message that they have closed their eyes and have helped Portugal to maintain an increasingly centralist country, where will they continue to miss opportunities for those who have the chance to be born out of the capital? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u11	The honourable Member has four requests for clarification. I assume you respond in groups of two. Right?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u12	All together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u13	All right. For the first request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u14	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I would like to thank the Liberal Initiative for bringing the debate to the issue of territorial cohesion. We have a problem of centralizing services in our country—we will go to this in our intervention—but there are some issues that are important for the Liberal Initiative, in particular about the problems that have to do with territorial cohesion. There is a very large inconsistencies in this agenda of the Liberal Initiative. The Liberal Initiative makes, and has made, its essence the defence of the minimal state, but, Mr President, the way to the minimum state was exactly what led us to the problems of territorial cohesion that we currently have, with the successive closure of essential public services. The minimum state policy that you are defending was to put an end to the CTT ( Post Offices and Telecommunications in Portugal ), because it was decided to privatize a company that was profitable and has a fundamental social role, especially in the interior. It was the policy of the minimum state that ended with balconies of the General Deposit Box, limiting the access of thousands and thousands of people to public banking services, the pretext of a restructuring that harmed workers and citizens. It was precisely because of the policy of the minimal state that you defend that health services have been closed, that schools have been closed, that justice services have been closed, everything on behalf of no one knows very well about what, but certainly it was not in the name of the interior of the country, it was not in the name of territorial cohesion. Therefore, these closures, what they meant for the interior of the country was employment, economic vitality within and fulfilled the right to access to public services. What we have today, especially in these regions, is this, is the result of the policy of the minimal state which the Liberal Initiative apparently defends. And it was this policy of withdrawal of minimum services that helped, and much, people to move to other places, where these services were and are available today. Mr President, it is not the spread of these 18 entities by the territory — which, from the standpoint of principle, does not bring us any divergence here — that solves the structural problems we have in our country, caused by this policy of the minimum state. So the question that arises in this debate is the following: how does the Liberal Initiative reconcile this great inconsistencies between defence—or supposed defence, perhaps it is no longer — a minimum state and the spread of public entities throughout the territory? They said yesterday that the State cannot be the owner of all entities that provide public service; today they want these same entities, by order of the State, to go all over the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u15	The mess that goes away! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u16	In the proposals themselves, they do not even consider how a process is done which, according to the proposals of the bills, implies ending this process by 2024, with zero considerations on how a negotiation is done with thousands of workers of these services, so that this can be at least feasible. Therefore, Mr President, in addition to political inconsistencies, these projects are very inexhaustible from our point of view. One last question I ask is: why do they not respond to the problems of territorial cohesion, defending or approving the proposals that the Left Block has been presenting, returning and reopening public services in the interior? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u17	They're no solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u18	You now have the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Barbosa de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u19	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, this is certainly a very important issue and it is a subject on which we follow the diagnosis that you have made here. The disparities in development within the national territory are, I think, one of the greatest failures of Portuguese democracy. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u20	This vicious circle is powerful. People and businesses from the territories and, the more they come out, fewer people and fewer companies are attracted to some territories. But this is not inevitable. Other countries have found, or have been, solutions to this. We just don't understand why we're failing so much! In view of the scale of the challenge which you have rightly pointed out, the concrete proposals of the IL, however, sound quite frankly very little. We agree with the emergency. The state can't blow, it has to do something. But the relocation of public institutes can and should be an instrument, but good intentions are full hell.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u22	It is that the simple sowing, with very unconsistent criteria—as seen in these proposals—of public institutes and general directives throughout the territory, without a study, without measuring impacts, without goals that allow us to measure the outcome of things in a few years, can only be a missed opportunity, a shot of dry powder. [[PSD applause.]] It is that far-reaching, timely and voluntary measures often end up in the form of a hoax and turn into vaccines against what we wanted. Remember what happened to Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ) in 2017. The process was so badly conducted that not only did Infarmed not leave Lisbon, as the matter was never discussed again. [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] It was a great service, we would say, that the PS of then donated to centralism. We will, of course, give these proposals an opportunity because we think they have a way to do it. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u23	They have a way to do, and here we will be to transform very inconsistent proposals into real ways to change Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u24	Mr André Ventura has the floor to make the request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u25	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, with due respect, the projects that the Liberal Initiative brings us are not about combating centralism, but about pure electoralism. That's what the Liberal Initiative here brings. In fact, if we look at the projects of the Liberal Initiative, we can't even understand... [[IL protests and CH counter-protests.]] What an enthusiasm, then in the morning! As I said, if we look at the projects of the Liberal Initiative, we can't even understand the criteria of relocation. Let us now see: the ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority) in Braga. But why does ASAE in Braga? Is there a lot of pastries in Braga? Is that why ASAE is going to Braga? [[CH's laughs.]] The Directorate-General for Sea Policy for Viana. Why? Why is the sea nearby? [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u26	It's the Secretary of State who's from there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u27	And the Infarmed to the Port... There is no criterion. But the worst is that there is no criterion, the projects do not explain the criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u28	Sure! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u29	So it gives an idea that she's a total bannerman, which is anyway. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[IL protests.]] They took on the map and a series of public services and thought, "What does the sea talk about? So it is at the sea' ; « What is left in areas where there are pastries? Go to the foot of the pastries ; « What is left in areas where there are many gas stations? Go to the foot of the gas stations ; « What goes to Setúbal? Fishing »! This is not centralism! This is amateurism. It is far away that it is amateurism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u30	Then they say: « We can even take advantage of some buildings of these services in Lisbon for housing». And I ask you if you know the building of Infarmed in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u31	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u32	I ask you if you think someone could live there. [[Mr Filipe Melo's laughs.]] I mean, at least we need to know a little bit of the buildings instead of saying, "We can make a condominium where Infarmed is." A condominium where is Infarmed? You went to meetings, like me and all, including Mr. John Cotrim Figueiredo, and you think that someone could live in the Infarmed building? I mean, this isn't about fighting centralism. This is a legislative amateurism that will not solve anything at all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] More: on the attempt to combat desertification and depopulation, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the territories that you have here, the metro and the glue, only three are considered interior territories. Only three are on the National Cohesion Plan as interior territories. The rest are territories with much higher income than the average in relation to the unpopulated interior, as you have shown. So neither does that criterion make sense. I could make sense of that, but it doesn't. So it's an absolutely amateur project. However, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I hope you have more to give us than the projects you presented here. So I ask you where are the financial impact studies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u34	What's the impact? You don't know, because they took the subway and distributed it through the country. [[IL protests and CH counter-protests.]] But more: if you do not want to talk about the financial impact, there is one aspect that needs to be mentioned and I hope that you will make it clear to us. What will the employee transfer regime be for these institutes? How are employees going to transfer to these institutes? For special mobility? By affect? By transfer? How are you gonna do it? It is not enough to say « transfer the Infarmed ». What about the workers? And the workers who are here, how do they transfer to the port? For special mobility? By travel? By transfer? By affect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u35	The dictatorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u36	There is not a single word of clarification about this. This is a legislative amateurism like you've never seen before. It's just: « Look, move over there and then see»! So, what I ask you is: will a mobility exception scheme be created for these employees? Will there be a pay supplement for whom you are obliged to leave the Algarve to go to Braga or to whom you are going to go from Lisbon to go to Porto? It's just that we need to discuss this, otherwise we're just picking up on the map and distributing services, and that anyone can do. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I would like to know—and I think it was important for us to understand what the Liberal Initiative has of this — what is the legal regime that will allow the transfer, allocation and distribution of these employees. If you refuse or do not want to make that journey, how will the problem be solved? Do employees have the right to refuse or not? What if you don't want to go? It is not enough to say to go out to the port, or to Coimbra, or to Beja, or to the Azores ; there must be a legal regime that is consistent with what we are saying. We need a decentralization, not a transfer to the metro and glue through the country. Moreover, the case of Infarmed should already have shown you that it is not with electoralism established by the map of Portugal that we solve the problem. What happened today was this: the Liberal Initiative woke up and saw that it was wrong in polls. So what did you do? He went to the areas where he was wrong in the polls and put in some kind of service. So tell people you're working for them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] « We are bad in Braga. So ASAE's going to Braga. We're also bad at Viana do Castelo. Go there to the direction of the Policy of the Sea". With good luck, they will say that the Prime Minister will turn to be in Porto instead of being in Lisbon, since, in polls, they are also ill in Porto. [[CH's laughs.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this required a little more. A little more was expected, especially in a debate on centralism. at least it would be expected that the minimum legal questions would be clarified. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u37	And, in fact, the problem is not to be clarified, it is not to be here at all. This project is one of the most amateurs we have had here in Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u38	For a request for clarification on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Carlos Guimarães de Pinto, we thank the debate that brings us today. Without a doubt, it is essential for all of us to discuss decentralization, territorial cohesion and the importance of transferring services in the field of education, health and housing to areas within the country. Only what the Liberal Initiative... [[Pause.]] Mr President, when you can continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u40	I wish I could hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u41	The honourable Member does very well to interrupt whenever the level of noise prevents me from listening to her because at least I am interested in hearing her. We will therefore wait until there is silence in the room and the honourable Member will resume his intervention. We have all the time of the world: until 24 hours today we will be in plenary session of Thursday-Feira Santa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u42	It's a foot wash!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u43	Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. The theme is important and it is good that people at home can also realize what each of us defends about this matter. Only that what the Liberal Initiative brings us here, despite the importance of the issue, is an attack on a process that must be decentralised. It is a proposal that does not explain how it proposes that this decentralization be made, and there is no auscultation of those involved in the process. And what will you tell the officials of these services about their future if this proposal is approved? Because it is also unclear what criteria underlying the transfer to specific areas of the country. What they end up bringing is a package of 'transfers first and evaluates the consequences afterwards', which we do not think is of all greeting. And we also feel it is important to share our concern, because this would be a dangerous step: by risking improper transitions, we are at risk of harming the entities that are targeted here. Nor do they tell us how this transfer would operate, unless the Liberal Initiative then brings us a proposal for a PPP (public-private partnership) of decentralization, which will call into question essential public services. Therefore, Mr President, despite the kindness of the topic and the recognition of the difficulties and principles with which we all agree, there has been an explanation of how it is proposed that decentralization be done and when and how the targeted entities will be heard. We would like you to have the opportunity to clarify this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u45	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u46	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mr André Ventura and Mr João Barbosa de Melo, thank you for the questions you have raised. Removing lateral issues, such as seeing a specialist in electoralism and amateurism accusing others of this, there were two issues that I consider important and constructive and that were more or less transversal to all questions. The first one had to do with why to do this and move to each of these places. It is interesting to ask yourself why Santarém? Why Castle White? and never ask the question that really matters, what is it: "Why Lisbon? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u48	It's easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u49	Why have state bodies, with everything that moves, in a saturated and expensive city, when the economic impact of having these organisms could be anywhere else? I accept that, in particular, arguments are raised on the best location for any of these organisms and on the method of displacement itself. But what the rejection of these proposals would do was accept that these bodies might be in the worst possible location in terms of territorial cohesion right now. The second question has to do with the movement of people, which we consider to be an important issue and which has to be treated very carefully. But if you have seen the presentation, you have paid attention, you will have seen that you have moved to Lisbon in the last 20 years, 200 000 people. [[CH and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u50	And now it's up to them to force!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u51	They also saw that much of the population of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon is natural from other regions. [[CH and BE protests.]] Therefore, this migration of people for professional reasons is not something new, it is the reality of tens of thousands of people every year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u52	So it's like Stalin, go to force!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u53	It is not because this time migration is in the opposite direction that becomes worse! But there are important differences. It is that this change will be organized, compensated, will be for areas in the country with lower living costs, where the real wage will be higher. But more important than this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, much less relocation will be needed in the future because there will be more job and career opportunities outside Lisbon. [[BE's protests.]] What this set of projects brings is less relocations in the future, because there will be much more opportunities if these agencies are relocated out of Lisbon. Yeah, there's a transition cost. Yeah, it has to be thought and we have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u54	Then think!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u55	But no, it should not be an impediment to maintaining a centralist country and with the capital excessively occupied. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u56	To present the draft law of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome the Liberal Initiative for the presentation of a debate on relocation, an important debate in which the Free will is at stake. In particular, I wanted to congratulate our comrade Carlos Guimarães Pinto... [[Laughing.]] [[Comrade?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u58	...by presenting your five-year plan. In fact, dear and dear colleagues, a topic must finally be touched — and I say it with all my affection — in the heart of a liberal for a liberal to start believing in redistribution. Because usually the option is to let happen: the most dynamic ones, who gain wings, and the others will benefit from it. But is redistribution good? Welcome, comrade! [[PS and CH rice.]] I asked the Liberal Initiative three times this year if it was in favour of regionalization, and the answer was: « we have to make the accounts, we have to evaluate the cost-benefit ratio ». But today there is not a single cost-benefit relationship.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u59	There's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u60	He is worthy of Camilo Castelo Branco! Believing that you arrive at the Assembly of the Republic to make decentralization, you take the most decentralistic option of all, which is not that of the liberal revolution, is worthy of the enlightened despotism of a Marquis de Pombal : this goes here, that goes there and does not even ask the people who work there. [[CH protests.]] And this generates one of two effects: or we don't want to know about the participation of democracy and transparency, we don't even want to talk to the workers of these institutes, because of course there would be another solution — and this is proposed — which is that of the new institutes going out of Lisbon. But as a Liberal Initiative no longer wants a state, there are no new institutes, it has to be those that already exist. Then there is the Santana Lopes solution: the boss goes, the minister goes, or the director-general goes, comes to the office once a week and everything remains, in terms of jobs, transport and housing exactly as it was. Well, because this is an important issue, the Free brings the proposal of the process of audcultation and prior appreciation to the possible relocation of public collectives: the participation of the workers, of the municipal chambers of the cities of destination. Obviously, in a country that needs regionalization and in a country that needs to create, for the new challenges of modernity, the knowledge economy, new public institutions in new places, it has to do with people and not against people. It is the same criticism that we have to do to many other parties on other issues and today it falls very well to the Liberal Initiative. I say it in a language that IL certainly understands: it is necessary to do bottom-up and not top-down, dear comrades. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u61	I was almost beating hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u62	Mr André Ventura has the floor to present the draft of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u63	Mr President, I just wanted to start by welcoming Mr Rui Tavares' last speech very briefly. Comrades! Comrades! Comrades! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u64	At least they weren't looking at the phone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u65	Today we've come to understand a lot. And perhaps this "comrades" will remain as an act for us never to forget this umbilical connection of the Liberal Initiative to comrades. [[CH's laughs.]] The project of the Arrival is clear: it provides for an increase in the amendment of the Local Finance Act, because we understand that there can be no more competences without more money. But, Mr President, I could not, very briefly, fail to say this: this is perhaps the most failed act of the Liberal Initiative during this Legislative Session. Honestly, after the questions that were put here, what we expected, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, apart from electoralism and populism, was that there was an effective answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u66	Leia!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u67	There was a clear question from all parliamentary groups, which is how they will transfer employees. And the Liberal Initiative can't answer. Why? Because he didn't prepare. Therefore, you do not know how the transfer of employees is done, if it will be by special mobility, if it will be by any other regime that is provided for in the law. You know the problems that this has already generated in 2017 and 2018 with Infarmed, and could have guarded this, predicting and curating the situation. What did you do? Nothing. You preferred simply choosing a distribution by map. Will there be compensation for workers or not? Because that will increase and have a weight in the State budget. Can we ask a worker to leave Lisbon, or from Porto, to go to Braga or to the Algarve, without paying you a compensatory supplement? And how much is this compensatory supplement going to cost? And what is the legal figure that will frame this compensatory supplement? It is that before making this electionist shine, it was necessary to change the law, but the Liberal Initiative knew it, so it preferred not to do anything and simply bring here a distribution of services. Then there is no answer to the question of how the forced transfer of people is made. We already knew that there were Soviet trains, today we learn that apparently there will also be liberal trains, which will transfer people to force throughout the country. [[CH's laughs.]] Mr President, I believe that the Liberal Initiative here has the opportunity, for it not to be an extraordinary failed act, to explain to us how it will make this transfer, how it will make this effect, what impact this will have on the State budget and how it will compensate employees, workers, employees and still service providers, who are cooperating for these services, without unduly paying the State. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u68	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Gomes now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Portugal can be divided into two demographic regions with almost equal surface, one consisting of the districts of the coast and of Viseu and Santarém, the other by the remaining districts of the interior and those of the Alentejo. In the first one live 5 million and 409 inhabitants, i.e. three fourths of the country's population in half its area", says Orlando Ribeiro in Portugal, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic. The same author, in 1945, reported that these inner districts meant 32% of the Portuguese population, but in the last censuses in 2021 only corresponded to 11, 8% of the country's population. This population disparity is one of the greatest challenges our country has to face. The past of decades has been overwhelming for these territories, which have become more gloomy, unwelcome and lonely. In other cities, many are today towns or even villages: Mertola, which in the 1960s had more than 26 000 inhabitants, today has only a little more than 6000 ; Montalegre, even in the deep Trás-os-Montes, was a dynamic city in 1961, with more than 32 000 inhabitants, and today does not reach 10 000. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a brief demographic portrait of our Portugal, a highly unbalanced territory where asymmetries have defragmented the country. In recent decades, effective policies have been lacking, policies that mitigate the unstoppable dynamics of strengthening coastalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u71	It is not for this Government to have assigned the designation 'territorial cohesion' to a ministry which is now concerned about the issues of the interior. [[PSD applause.]] Politics is not rhetorical, but of action, because the words, "take them to the wind", as Florbela Espanca said, also a woman from the interior of the country. This government has fallen far short in the implementation of structural policies, which produce concrete results in the lives of these territories, and decentralisation, to this cornerstone of State reform, has been nothing more than a piece of measures without nexus, delay and strategy. [[PSD applause.]] The recent reorganization of the territory, through the creation of new NUTS II, recently carried out, is another example of a policy that accentuates centralism and possibly will have a serious consequence: the Alentejo can be seriously affected in access to Community funds. [[PSD applause.]] What is certain is that people and businesses in the interior pay the same taxes and therefore they should also have the same right to health, education and employment. They should also have quality infrastructures, structured public investments, should have the hope that one day they would see to reduce the gap in inequalities in their territories. On the other hand, the excessive concentration of the population in the coastal cities also translates into more congested, more subservient services and territories, which also impact on the quality of life of the populations that reside there, with the problems of the housing we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u73	And ask yourself, what do we have to do? To talk about politics in the interior without talking about a city policy is not to be realistic. Cities are an anchor of development and those of the interior can have a decisive role in creating dynamics in the territories of the interior of the country. Therefore, real reforms are needed, reforms that drive development models from the installed infrastructure capacity, which take advantage of their endogenous resources, reforms that allow entrepreneurship and innovation dynamics to be installed through investment in connectivity networks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives that are being discussed today certainly have an important role to play — which we, moreover, accompany — that is to awaken citizens and public opinion to this problem. However, they quit because they wanted to build the house on the roof and not on the foundations. [[PSD applause.]] The interior is a lost, aged territory, and to whom hope has been stolen. They grow despair and revolt. It is up to us all to multiply in efforts and solutions and here in Parliament to make our generational contribution to reverse a strong tendency to abandon much of our country, our culture and our knowledge. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u74	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, it's not for the honourable Member. I now give the floor to Mr João Azevedo of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese and Portuguese certainly know the imbalance, asymmetries in relation to territorial cohesion. For many years, they closed services, we had a clear de-investment in low-density territories and there was a drastic reduction in the number of people living in these regions, leaving abroad, but also moving internally to the large metropolitan areas. For many years, the only ones who cared about this imbalance were those who were close to the people and who really felt that problem. Many have tried to do their best to delay people's exit through decisions in the public sector and in the private sector, but there have also been many who have done nothing to reverse the situation. The transformation process is being done, now with political decisions, but also with the lives of people who have chosen our country to live. We have a unique opportunity: in the post-25 April, we will certainly have a second time window that points to a population growth trend, an opportunity that cannot be wasted. With the last governments, important steps have been taken to correct the inevitable outcome that some have advocated and that others are now trying to counter. That's how it happened in recent years. The Socialist Party recommends to the Government that quality public services are the most important tools for reducing inequalities and improving the living conditions of all. The quality of public services depends on their universality, distribution through the territory, in order to ensure effective access to all and their trend free of charge. It therefore recommends that we continue the path and process of relocation of public entities and services, as it is already happening. We have, as examples: Viseu, with the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport; Customs of the Faith, with the Consular Care Centre ; Vila Real, Almeirim, Viseu, Évora and Loule, with the regional emergency and civil protection commands of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ; Portalegre, with the training centre of the Republican National Guard ; Guard, with a centre of excellence with capacity for the digitization of large collections of documentation, availability by digital means and digital preservation of the information produced. These examples represent the will of the political decision-makers, the government, who must be accompanied by the will of the local power. It's mandatory. In pursuing this supreme objective, the Government must regulate a model of gradual and special transition using telework for workers who do not wish to carry out this travel immediately and establish a plan using the returned heritage of the central and local State with a view to the use of vacant public buildings in low-density territories and at the same time the release of buildings in urban centres. It should also assess the dishonoring of public charges with the purpose of renting or selling buildings that are returned in urban centres, continue to stimulate and approach activities or services their users and their recipients and ensure support for the relocation of workers and their family members to low-density territories, in partnership with the authorities, to meet initial difficulties of space and staff. The Government therefore has instruments that can create a sense of reduction of asymmetries. Living, working and enjoying these territories is not a problem, but, yes, an opportunity, a happiness. The angle we must retain for the short term is to continue to place new public services in these regions, always respecting labour standards and workers' will, always respecting the family context of the consecutive years, but at the same time pedagogy to create an upward curve, a tendency to live in these regions. Depopulation, public services, security, better housing, cheaper housing and better quality of life are issues that are interconnected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a dynamic process, a process that calls on us all and needs to be done every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u76	Do you have two requests for clarification to which, I presume, you will answer together? [[Pause.]] The honourable Member has signalled to the Bureau that it will be so, so I think well. Therefore, in order to formulate the first request for clarification, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr João Azevedo for his intervention, who is still curious because he boasts of this process of decentralization in the hands of the Socialist Party. But it is also curious that this process of decentralization, done by the Socialist Party, is the same as that of absolute failures, also assumed by the municipalities that are led by executives of the Socialist Party, since, as can be seen by the last process of delegation of competence, the means are not assured to these municipalities. I am saying again that it is not enough to be curious that they have shown themselves here in favour of relocation. This is because your election programs, from 2019 to 2022, had a measure that said, and I quote: 'establish incentives for the relocation of jobs to areas within or outside large urban centres. » The will to implement these measures was so much that they repeated exactly the same sentence either in the 2019 program or in the 2022 program. So the questions we have to ask the Socialist Party are obvious. First of all, after they promise exactly the same thing twice, why aren't they implementing relocation and decentralisation what it should be? Secondly, what prevents you from doing that? Finally, we would like to see whether or not they follow the initiatives presented by the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u78	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u79	Mr President, I welcome you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I congratulate the Liberal Initiative for bringing this issue to debate. We're in April. April means the commemoration of great achievements, of freedom, but also of failure. We're on Holy Week, Easter week. I would therefore like to point out here that it is deeply unfair for us to continue to have the injustices and territorial asymmetries that we have, in which a young person born inside has completely different living conditions than that of a young person born on the coast. [[PSD applause.]] It is deeply unfair that the country, because of this centralism, which is a brand of the Socialist Party, which has governed us, above all, in the last 25 years, is late for others and that we are today at the level of Romania, when we should be at a completely different level.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u81	The blame, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has a lot to do with this centralism. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now witnessing a speech of praise, of love in relation to the interior, of joy for what they have done. But, in fact, between what they say and what they do there is a great inconsequence. [[PSD applause.]] Otherwise, they promised decentralization. What do we have? Short money for municipalities and a poorly done process. They promised to change institutes and services to the interior, but they located the services they created, such as the Agency for Development and Cohesion, in Lisbon. They promised to make a Letter of Danger that would help development, but they did one that would kill development. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u82	They promised to dynamize the regional directions, but they trophied them. They have promised to abolish tolls but have failed to comply with the proposal which has been adopted in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] They announce 5G, telework, coworking, but forget that there are people who do not have telenonic networks, nor the Internet. They announce many Community funds and simplification, but what happens? We go to Trás-os-Montes, where they want the improvement of the roads and where they want to make fences to water the lands, but push them cycleways. [[PSD applause.]] The money from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) came almost everything to Lisbon and the rest is left with nothing. [[Protests from PS Nelson Brito.]] But more, sirs. Members, they want strict accounts, but then we saw what happened with TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u83	And who started it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u84	That's not the case! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, either we reverse this process or, in a short time, we will have 90 % of the population in a third of the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u85	They didn't do anything and now they come here to say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u86	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, be assured: Portugal can only give quality of life to its people if it is valued in its entirety, and centralism defeats and impoverishs the territory. As I said at the beginning, we're in Easter time. Easter in Hebrew means the passage from death to life, from sorrow to joy. Living Easter is learning to be resilient, overcome difficulties and cultivate a meaningful life. So if we want to make sense of the inside, we have to reverse this same process. So I have two questions to ask the Socialist Party. First of all, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this time of rebirth, are they available to enable all the proposals that from now on help reverse this process? Secondly, with regard to Alentejo — and we have Members of the Alentejo here — do not fear that this recent amendment in the NUT (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) will further aggravate the asymmetries, particularly in the territory of Alentejo, preventing their access to Community funds. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u87	Good morning to all of us. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In reply, Mr João Azevedo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u88	Mrs President, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, has addressed the issue in a general way — indeed, identical to the presentation made by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto — and it is clear that there is some limitation in the assessment of the problems of the territory, which I understand, because the honourable Member certainly has never had a direct relationship with the problems of the territory. [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u89	But what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u90	I would like to point out to you that concern about the territories is not only dealt with within this plenary but is treated with people. The fact that we have solved problems in low-density territories means that we avoid the disaster that would have been the definitive departure of many people who today can return to those territories. This relocation is already being done on an ongoing basis, and the investments being made in the territory depend heavily on the perception of the government in these territories, but also on the perception of the local authority. With regard to the question of whether we follow these initiatives, I also want to note that we accompany your concern, but we have always been with you, we have not begun now. As regards the question put by Mrs Fatima Ramos, Mrs Depute, this speech of sadness, this speech in a country that is completely unbalanced,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u91	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u92	...which makes this territory of low density not have a future, it's a dangerous speech. Why? Because it transforms it into less and less competitive territory. However, when we make an intervention, we have an obligation to clearly analyze the objective data, transforming these objective data into opportunities. I always did it this way, as we always did in that territory. And I have no doubt when I tell you, with all due respect, that there were governments that decided to close institutions in the territory — courts, CTT stations (E-mails and telecommunications in Portugal ), public services — and the honourable Member knows who the government has closed these services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those decisions are face-to-face!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u93	Yes, they do!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u94	The honourable Member also knows that I know how we spent those moments in the territory. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the decisions that have been taken in recent months and years represent the alternative for the territory to be more cohesive, to have more investment and also for the Community funds to be looking directly at citizens, citizens and low-density territories. There's something I want to tell you. We all have an obligation to pull through those territories. We all have an obligation to leverage new investments and not to have reduced speeches for those people, for those women and for those men. There are many women and men who defend the territory every day and invest much in that territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u95	He should be in jail!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u96	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u97	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u98	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u99	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u100	Madam President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute to Mr. João Azevedo the result of the 2021 actual elections, which prove that I am proudly a author in the Union of the Freguesias de Perafita, Lavra and Santa Cruz do Bispo, of the municipality of Matosinhos. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u101	That's a good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u102	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u103	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I speak today, especially as a member elected by the Braga circle, to bring to this House the evidence of four or five examples of how centralism affects the development of regions. The first example I want to bring to this House is that of the Barcelos-Braga-Guimaranes axis, which is not today served by rail, and the solution is being prepared for the subway. The subway is today a kind of roundabout, or of what were the roundabouts in the past century: it serves for everything and, indeed, it does not serve anything. Therefore, there are 600 000 people who could be served by rail, who should be served by rail on the axis Barcelos-Guimarães, serving companies, serving the universities and the polytechnics of the region, serving the needs of the populations, but that will not be because the centralist decision does not foresee this possibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u106	on the second point, which I would also like to bring to this House, for evaluation, we are no longer only talking about centralism, but about « gergonicism », which is a mixture of « gerganyance» with « centralism ». By decision of management — therefore, with the responsibility of the PCP, the Left Block and the PS — it was decided at some point to suffocate association contracts in education. The Braga district had many happy examples of the benefits of association contracts, and I will identify only two: the first is the service to the population, with the door open to all, regardless of their socio-economic condition, which allowed quality education for all. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Yes, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, and with another benefit, which is already identified: what the State paid under association contracts,... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] ...it is much less than what is costing the State each of the students who attend public education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u108	...because it is much more expensive to be in public education than it was to be in association contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u109	They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u110	The third point which I also wanted to bring, within the framework of this « gergonism», has to do with the Braga Hospital. As is known, it is a public-private partnership ( PPP ), and there are the results measured by the Court of Auditors itself ( TdC ), which said it was an efficient service, which was very well integrated in the National Health Service ( SNS ) and which allowed savings to populations. Three or four years after the extinction of PPP by political and ideological decision—again again the PS, with the Left Block and the PCP—there are the results: a population in the district that was very well served by a quality service, but which is in permanent degradation. A fourth example, Mrs. Members, it is about the question of the University of Minho. Since 2009, the formula for funding higher education has been called into question, which has become funded on the basis of history rather than on the criteria and formula that was in force. This criterion, as you will know, appealed above all — but not just — to the question of the number of students. What happens now? With the freezing of this formula, funding from the University of Mininho is at stake. The University of Minho has done a work of growth of its number of students and, therefore, if the previous formula was applied, it would have a funding that would allow it not to live with the difficulties it lives with today. Once again, these are centralist decisions, decisions that also condition the development of the University and the region. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and now not a question of'managementism', but of 'national-managementism', which has to do with all those who believe that the TAP should be a public enterprise. We have some examples—from left to right—of that vision, and what I would like to say is that the Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, which serves the entire northern region, has a presence of TAP which does not exceed 15% of the movements or passengers transported. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to think about it. What has happened in the CPI(Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry) of the TAP is obviously a national shame, as well as what has been found, but I want you to think about it, which is to think about whether this shame will no longer cost the people of the north, who have to pay, have to watch this sad show, have to see all this and, above all, have virtually no PAT service in their regions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House : There is indeed a problem of excessive centralisation in Portugal. This is a fact known for a long time, and this centralization does not necessarily have to do with the location of this institution or ministry, but with other, deeper reasons. Let us look at the most obvious example we can use today: the Government and the Socialist Party made a big party with the placement of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion in Bragança. Symbolically, it was important, but I really wonder what this decision has brought about positive for the interior regions, particularly for Bragança? Do not the serious problems of the interior continue to be solved, particularly in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real? We continue to have serious problems with the telecommunications infrastructure, we continue to have district capitals that do not have a train station. Therefore, the truth is that all the promises that this government has made in resolution for the problems of the interior continue to be fulfilled, even though the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion based in Bragança. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is that the mere relocation of entities or ministries does not solve problems. The question is that they are the options of public policies that solve them and, yes, they are not being taken. There is therefore an essential point in this debate, which is the closure of public services and the consequences that this has had on the territories of the interior and on the worsening of territorial inequalities: when maternity was closed in Chaves ; when the General Deposit Box (CGD) was closed in Abraveses, Viseu ; when the CTT balcony was closed in Arraiolos ; when the problem of lack of family doctors continues to be solved — we have more than 1, 6 million users without a family doctor! — which prevents the operation of many health extensions, in particular of the deep or remote interior populations of the centres. That's why, sirs. Members, I repeat, the problem is not necessarily the location of ministries or entities, the problem is a public policy option. These options have been taken by PS and also by PSD over the past decades when we do not have basic infrastructures that reach the whole territory. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem that we do not want to discuss here, and which is not being discussed, is that all these closures have happened and have meant the destruction of networks of contacts of thousands of people, who had a perfectly normal life, who had access to public services and who today, in these regions, no longer have. The universality of access to various public services has been destroyed and, therefore, if we want to discuss, and we must do so, decentralization and regionalisation, now, then we must begin with the most basic, which is the access of all, throughout the territory, to public services. It is not enough to say that we want young families to go inside, but then we do not offer them schools, maternity or access to justice services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u114	That doesn't work, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have to go to what is basic. It is not enough to say that we want people to go, on a telework basis, to Chaves, to Vila Real, to a village I know very well, and from where all my family is, but where there is no Portuguese mobile network. Therefore, we cannot continue to use bricks with regard to decentralization when we do not want to take the public policy options. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative, it is not enough to say, by decree, that this or that entity goes to this or that place. In fact, the Liberal Initiative strangely presented us today with a proposal worthy of an absolutely direct state, because they have opted for a centralizing decision to decentralise, which is unprecedented, and during the debate they have not been able to answer the obvious questions: how is this process done? How is the question of workers solved? Or, then, the Liberal Initiative today is defending that thousands of families, without more, hold on to their things, hold on to their children and change their lives completely, without any guarantee, without any information on this matter. [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must respond to a problem of centralization in the country, but it is not by decree, nor by relocation of entities and ministries to certain regions that solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u115	You've already been in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u116	We have found that, over the last decades, we have not wanted to respond to public policy problems, particularly in access to public services, and therefore as long as we continue to have an interior whose railway has been destroyed, while we continue to have an interior that has no access to telecommunications and whose public services, such as education and health, have been shut down, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot solve the problem of territorial cohesion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u117	For an intervention, Mrs Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Portugal is a too centralised country, which results in an obstacle to good governance and economic development, being largely responsible for the huge regional asymmetries existing, with the depopulation and ageing of the country's interior and the concentration of a large part of the population on a small stretch of the coast, from Braga to Setúbal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u119	What does that matter? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u120	Therefore, we are in favour of the preferential location of new central government services in the territories of low density and of the relocation of existing services, where possible, to those territories. However, we cannot follow the measures presented today by the Liberal Initiative by forcing the relocation of various services without criteria, without checking whether this is possible or desirable and without precaution of the rights of the workers of these services. We consider these initiatives to be demagogic, poorly substantiated and inconsequential, and therefore we cannot follow them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party has been the party that has done most to combat these regional asymmetries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u121	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u122	... with structural reforms which will certainly bear fruit in the near future. One of the objectives of the Socialist Party Programme is to approximate the percentage of public expenditure incurred at regional and local level with the European average, which is also in the preamble to the proposals of the Liberal Initiative. According to data from 2022 OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the European average of the percentage of regional and local public expenditure was 24, 4 % while Portugal stood at 14, 8 %. With the implementation of the reform of the decentralization of competences for the authorities, the forecast of local public expenditure for 2023 indicates that it will remain in the 20, 6 %. This, yes, is to decentralize and is to invest more in the territories of the interior and throughout the country, thus promoting territorial cohesion. In the State budget of 2023, transfers to municipalities resulting from the application of the Local Finance Act amount to around EUR 3300 million. In addition to this value, the Decentralisation Fund, with EUR 1200 million, hence the significant increase in the percentage of local and regional public expenditure in 2023. A working group between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) is already planned for the revision of the Local Finance Act, which we hope will translate into a strengthening of transfers to the authorities, in particular to small municipalities of low density, which have very low own revenues and depend on this strengthening of transfers from the State budget in order to develop their territories and fix people, contrary to the depopulation verified in recent decades. Another important reform, envisaged in the Socialist Party's Government Programme and already under way — important for the decentralization of the country and for territorial cohesion — is the transformation of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) into public institutes of special regime, with administrative and financial autonomy, and own heritage, as well as the transfer of competences from various decentralised services of the central State to the CCDRs, reinforcing their role as responsible for regional development policies in a country which, although small, is heterogeneous and cannot only be governed from Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u124	These are structural reforms that are expected to be completed during the next year, in 2024, and that will transform the governance of the country, decentralizing it and taking the decision closer to the people and territories, on the path of regionalization, which will consolidate all this reformist work of the socialist governments. We ask that political forces in this Chamber will follow the Socialist Party's will to move forward with regionalization. This is because good speeches or well-structured speeches are not enough, so it is also necessary to do. We all need to make progress in these structural reforms and not in conjunctural measures which, in fact, do not resolve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the way forward and we support, because it will reduce current regional asymmetries, making Portugal a more cohesive country, with more opportunities for all, especially for people living in low-density territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of centralism is now endogenous and structural in Portugal. We see this in the data present and we must combat this centralism in several areas, particularly in the area of education. Portugal is the European country with the least autonomy of schools. According to OECD data, 77 % of decisions are made at central level and with bad rankings in all items—we are talking about personal management, planning, resource management, material management. It should be noted, for example, that at human resources level 75% of decisions are also taken at central level, and those which are not, are strongly regulated, i.e., this capacity for local decision is extremely small. The Liberal Initiative has defended administrative, financial, pedagogical autonomy, but, to do so, it is necessary to alter the paradigm deeply. We are talking about the school management model itself, raising the level of responsibility, giving freedom to run the projects. We also speak of a greater financial autonomy for the implementation of approved budgets, for the hiring of teachers, to establish and adjust teaching classes and models. There are big questions we have to ask ourselves, particularly how we want to deal with innovation in pedagogical processes, with the opening of new projects, with the specificity of local students and the connection with local communities, with this level of centralism and with this level of rigidity. Moreover, it can be seen in a state that has been the bad manager of public school, as the results show. We are talking about children, teachers, learning recovery, special education—which we have talked about here so much—, building itself and infrastructure management. Mrs. Members, the historical circumstances which may have explained some centralism are far beyond them. To insist on bureaucratic centralist models, far from local specificities, is profoundly limiting. We defend a greater connection with local communities, with families, with members of civil society. In education, as in other areas, there is a question that is raised: what kind of state do we want? Is it a regulator state or a school director state? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u127	Mr Guilherme Almeida, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is an unequal and centralist country, Portugal is a country with strong regional asymmetries and inequalities. The current model of the territory's political-administrative organization is not compatible with a developed and sustainable country. « I am one of the most centralist governments our country has ever had, our Prime Minister recognizes this», said the Minister of Territorial Cohesion. This centralism has been synonymous with inefficiency and waste of resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u129	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u130	The various studies on the territory have shown a progressive coastalization of economic activity and the population, which contrasts with a trend towards depopulation and ageing in the interior regions. [[PSD applause.]] In recent decades, the country's centralist trend has been increasing, which is concentrated on the coast range 83 % of the wealth produced, 89 % of higher education students and 89 % of tourist sleeping. It is very difficult to see that a small country concentrates on a small part of the territory, along the coast, more than 73% of its population and that in 208 municipalities, which represent 65 % of the territory, only 25 % of the population. It is even more difficult to understand that Lisbon will receive EUR 2225 million from the PRR, a value equal to that of 284 municipalities in this country. [[PSD applause.]] After so many Community support frameworks, how does Portugal continue to have 165 municipalities plus 73 low density frequencies? [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo.]] Mrs. Members, this is the real and resilient country of the interior, in which children have to travel dozens of kilometers to go to school,... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] ... where many young people, who attend high school, have to get up at 6 o'clock in the morning to attend school in a nearby municipality, where sick people get up in the morning to try a consultation in a hospital or health centre,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and in which cancer patients have to travel hundreds of miles to do their treatments. [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this centralist State of maximum taxes and minimum services, the authorities of the interior are obliged to assume the powers of the State without any financial compensation, to provide a housing to be able to fix the doctor or teacher, to support birth and immigration, to ensure civil protection and relief to populations, to perform works in health centres, courts and schools. Companies located in the interior have to bear high context costs in order to develop their activity, invest and create jobs. The difficulties of access to markets and services and the high tax burden are just a few costs, such as tolls, that they have to bear. in a government of seizures and delays of public investment, the interior territories are deprived of public transport networks, access to railways, access to digital connectivity networks and access to public services. [[PSD applause.]] This is a time when many Portuguese are dragged into poverty and social exclusion, when many people, who live inside, do not have access to a home, in which many elderly people live isolated and without conditions of comfort, with minimal reforms and no incomes for a decent life. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the new generations will not forgive us for leaving more than half the country behind, protecting people and leaving territories. We would all have much to gain if Portugal were more cohesive, more competitive and more sustainable. At present, there is a broad political consensus on the need to value the interior, but what stands in speech, lacks reforms, attitudes and resources. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] in this sense, we welcome the initiative of the Liberal Initiative with the principle of relocation of State services, which the Socialist Party promised, but which does not comply. However, this centralist state needs a much deeper reform. For the PSD, the imbalance in our territory is one of the greatest failures of our democracy. We believe that this should be a priority and a national design. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u131	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative brings the debate to a set of projects in which it proposes the relocation of the headquarters of various services of the central capital administration to other cities and regions of the country. It speaks of combating centralism, deconcentration, centralization, territorial cohesion. Let's go to parties: a set of services whose headquarters proposes to relocate without any criteria is chosen. Why are these and not others? There is also no criterion for cities or regions where they are proposed to be relocated. It's because it was quiet, because they remembered these and they didn't remember others. There is no assessment of the implications, nor of the impact of these proposals on its various dimensions. It does not seem to us that it is in this random way, without criteria, that one should look at the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u134	Any region, any city, any municipality in our country has the right to receive services from the central administration — this is not the issue. The question is whether this is how the Public Administration is strengthened, whether this is how the Public Administration of citizens is approaching. Here are some examples: for citizens residing in dwellings that are owned by IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana), in Portimão, or elsewhere in the Algarve, who are degradationing themselves day by day, to which IHRU does not respond and does not follow up, nor does it ensure proper conservation and maintenance, what would be most important? Have IHRU headquarters in Portimão or have IHRU's decentralised services throughout the territory, with technical teams on the ground who did this follow-up? The IHRU could even switch to Portimão, but if there are no such teams, the problems continue. The problem here is not where the headquarters is located, as is proposed, but the existence in the territory of deconcentrated services closest to the citizens. Consider another example: the proposed relocation of the headquarters of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Forestas) to the Leiria district. The main problems that arise are the removal of the conservation of the nature of the populations, eliminating the direct structure of each protected area, concentrating in one direction, and the lack of nature watchers to ensure the surveillance, monitoring and protection of protected areas. What would change? Would you solve any of these problems? No, no, no. What is needed is the creation of a direction for each protected area and the strengthening of the number of nature vigilantes to ensure the proper protection and conservation of protected areas. But let us also give another example, that of the High Commissioner for Migration. It is not seen how useful it is to propose the relocation of its headquarters to Setúbal, when the dismantling of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders) is on the table, with all that this entails, i.e. with the creation of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum, which will inherit the administrative competences of the SEF, and which will absorb the high commissioner because it does not solve any of the problems with which immigrants and migrant communities are debating themselves and would be another element of destabilization. It is proposed that the relocation processes be completed by the end of 2024, when the High Commissioner will probably already be merged with the Agency. One aspect contributing to territorial cohesion is the existence of close public services throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u136	However, in recent years many public services, schools, health extensions, GNR ( Republican National Guard ) posts have been closed, finance and social security services, among others, TTC posts and stations, banking agencies, in particular the public bank — the General Deposit Box. Competences were removed from various courts and even the parish was extinguished. It's not worth spilling crocodile tears here. These closures are the responsibility of the PS, the PSD, the CDS, but on the side of the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, we do not see opposition here either. These public services are fundamental to fixing populations, to guarantee citizens' rights, to respond to their needs, to not leave populations to abandon, as many are in many territories. Are these citizens not entitled to proximity services? It is that the absence of these proximity public services also contributes to depopulation, particularly in the interior regions. On the need to reopen closed public services, there is not a single word of the Liberal Initiative, but it is said that the other political forces, the PS, the PSD and the Arrival also do not see themselves here defending the need for the reopening of these services. Just as there is no word on the closure of decentralised services of central government, for example in the area of economics, agriculture and education. The headquarters of services of the central administration could even be distributed through the territory, but that was not what solved the problem with which the populations faced themselves: difficulties in access to public services of proximity. Dislocation is not synonymous with deconcentration or decentralisation. Sometimes all these terms are used as if it were all the same, but it is not. It is necessary to deconcentrate and decentralise the Public Administration. It is true, but this is not done either with the proposals that the Liberal Initiative brings today the debate, with the dismantling of ministries and with the integration of services out of focus in the CCDRs, as the Government wants, nor with the deresponsibility of the government to guarantee the universality of constitutional rights, with the transfer of charges to the authorities. If the goal is to decentralize, which begins, from the very beginning, with the replacement of extinct fragesias where this is the will of the population...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u137	Exactly, very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u138	... and that no further obstacles are introduced to prevent it, such as PS, PSD, Liberal Initiative and Arrival prepare to do in the working group of the parish in the Assembly of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u140	... in relation to the processes which have arrived and which propose the replacement of these same frequencies. To deconcentrate and decentralize implies moving forward with the process of regionalization, as our Constitution recommends.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u142	This is the central issue of combating centralism. Side and accessory issues are proposed to divert attention from what is essential and structural and why the country has been waiting for decades: the creation of administrative regions. There is no lack of proclamations to combat centralism, to eliminate regional asymmetries, but, in truth, everything is done to prevent the necessary solution from being adopted: to move forward with the regionalization process. The realization of regionalization is the way to regional development, territorial cohesion and the elimination of asymmetries; it is the way to give greater coherence to the administrative organization of the State; but it is also the way to deepen the democratic regime and promote popular participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u144	All delays that have been imposed on this process, the responsibility of PS, PSD and CDS, are only contributing to the deepening of regional asymmetries.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u146	What is proposed here by the Liberal Initiative, without a strengthening of the Public Administration, without the reopening of closed services without the creation of administrative regions, is another step in dismantling the Public Administration. The position of the Liberal Initiative on the State is well known: it says that there are more states that it advocates the reduction of public administration structures, privatization, concession and hiring of private persons for the provision of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u147	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u148	For the Liberal Initiative, at least state, better to enhance the business of private groups. The State would serve only, in its perspective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u149	To serve people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u150	...to transfer public resources and feed the profits of these same private groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u151	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u152	The concern that is present is once again the interest of private groups and not the guarantee of public services to citizens. The Liberal Initiative defends up to the reduction of parish and municipalities, the closest level of power of the populations, so that the state is even more distant from the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u153	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u154	There's no more state. What is a policy of dismantling and reconfiguration of the Public Administration, pursued by successive Governments, PS, PSD and CDS, but that the Liberal and Arrival Initiative does not disagree with the interests of the economic groups and does not respond to the needs of the people. That is why what is proposed here is not a mistake and a fraud to deceive the most indecisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u155	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u156	What is really needed and what is essential is: to invest and strengthen the capacity of the Public Administration; to value workers, their careers, professions and remuneration; to guarantee working conditions; to reopen closed public services throughout the territory, including the deconcentrated services of the Public Administration; to create administrative regions; to restore the extinct ferries against the will of the people; to deepen the autonomy of local power; and to strengthen their means, together with promoting national production that allows the creation of employment with rights. This is the option for development, for territorial cohesion, for the establishment of populations within our country. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u157	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Centralism hurts the country and must be fought. It hurts the country because it imposes a model of development at various speeds. It hurts the country because it creates imbalances, in which many people are concentrated in some territories and few people in other territories, and this is an inexhaustible source of new problems. It hurts the country because it separates the country from itself, in a distance that is not measured through kilometers, but through opportunities for growth and life, which throws and pushes so many into the tyranny of merit, behind which are hidden points of social, cultural, economic, but also territorial, very different points of departure. Centralism hurts the country and must be fought. It must be fought by continuing to make territorial cohesion a major national design. It must be fought by gaining territorial freedom and equality so that everyone can choose where he wants to live. It must be fought in all forms, on the coast and in the interior, in Lisbon and outside Lisbon, rejecting a Hobbesian vision of the country, which makes the territories to compete wildly against each other, and, on the contrary, to find, with collaboration and with justice, in the difficulties of each other's opportunities, and in all this a vision for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u160	Centralism hurts the country and must be fought with territorial cohesion. Part of this path can also be done through the deconcentration of State services, but it cannot be done in a hasty manner or with closed responses. It must be done by safeguarding the rights and expectations of workers, studying the concentration of resources, whether it has virtues or not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u161	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u162	... or the adaptation of new forms of work, such as telework, to this dimension, in a vision that can neither be avulsive nor loose, but that has to transcend all of this. In this respect, the Liberal Initiative brings us today, with one hand, a maximum ambition of decentralization and transfer of public services to the country, but, with the other hand behind the back, it brings minimal ambition about the presence of the State in education, in the economy or in health for most of these territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has a heritage to defend in territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u163	Here, here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u164	This is evident, for example, by the reform we are making in the CCDRs and the historical sharing of responsibilities we are doing with the authorities, gaining closer, more effective and more efficient in the political decision. For example, we are finally looking to the other side of the border, seeing opportunities for growth and development, and having today the cross-border operational programme throughout Europe, with more funding from the European Commission. This is also proof of the way the Inland Development Programme has done, stimulating the mobility of workers, telework, the network of coworking centres; or, for example, support for enterprises or workers;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u165	Everyone at home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u166	... or, in science, higher education or education, the evolution that we had in early school dropout rates in these territories and within the country, when we get maximum numbers of students, with one third of these new students entering higher education institutions (ESIs) of low population density.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u167	30 % increase in crime in Portalegre!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u168	This path needs to be continued and will have in the PRR and in the deconcentration of services a decisive role and contribution. For example, the country could have chosen differently, but chose to give one of the main words of the PRR to the High Alentejo for the construction of the Pisão dam. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u169	Ui! Ui! That's a hook!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u170	The country could have chosen to do different, but chose to install the GNR school in Portalegre and from there form the security forces for the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u171	How many years ago?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u172	... in a blatant example of what may be the deconcentration of State services in the territory and what the country must do: to continue to give territorial cohesion shocks to the country and territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u173	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make this request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sónia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Eduardo Alves, is as loving as I certainly wanted to address a question to you. As you know, we have held a series of hearings to the Presidents of the CCDR and to the Minister for Cohesion. As we also know, the NUTS reform (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) was carried out on the knee, without any study on the loss of Community frameworks, and therefore of investment for the Alentejo region. I wanted to ask you if you feel comfortable with this axe that the PS gave in the region of Alentejo...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u176	... with the reformulation of NUTS, without even having any academic or technical study on this matter, and if you are aware of that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u177	To reply, Mr Eduardo Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u178	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Ramos, before the PSD has agreed on this issue of the NUTS, already the President of the CCDR of Alentejo, the two Members elected by the electoral circle of the High Alentejo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u179	It is not electoral circle of the High Alentejo, it is electoral circle of Portalegre. Don't be ashamed to say Portalegre!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u180	...the members of the Alentejo and the mayors of the Alentejo talked about this issue for a long time. We have dealt with this very clearly. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion said that, even a few days ago, she should have had the opportunity to accompany — that the country would always be in solidarity with the Alentejo and that she would arrange, in the various settings... [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] Mrs. Deputy, I'm talking right now. [[Rice from members of the CH and IL.]] The Minister said she would find solidarity solutions, because Alentejo needs to continue to have funding levels that will ensure its development. But more than that, Mrs. Member, I am glad that this Government has opened a new vision for territorial cohesion since 2015...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u181	Nothing was noticed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u182	... because the vision we had before 2015 was that in which the PSD and the CDS, in the government of then, considered that our courts, our railway and our public services were even more rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u183	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to bring to this debate a witness that, in fact, is an open letter from a young 30-year-old, natural from the interior of Trás-os-Montes, a land that saw her born and raised until 18 years old, when, according to her words, "I did bad and went to the district capital to form me in Engineering. At the end of this journey, I brought the illusion of a newly licensed one: of getting my first job, my independence. For more places to publish jobs that I saw in my training area, nothing would appear except in large cities." This young woman continues and says that she tried to be enterprising, to create her own job, but felt numerous difficulties in forming her own business, especially because she was in the interior and wanted to value the land that saw her born. I return to your words, when you say: « How many and how many times the journey between Lisbon and Vila Real was carried out on the same day. Tired, wear, time, money? Betting inside compensated for that. the official entities and not only one support. In 2018, 28 years later, I gave up the interior. Do not keep on seeking. ” His letter continues, and in the end we can read: “Did I give up from the inside or was it the interior that gave up from me? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u185	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u186	The answer I would give to this young woman today is that, in fact, it was not the interior that gave up her nor was she who gave up from the inside. It was the Socialist Government and it was also the previous social-democracy governments that long condemned the new generations to have to leave the interior if they wanted to find decent living solutions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] For this reason, between the PS PowerPoint and those of the Liberal Initiative, come the devil and choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u188	The fact is that in this debate they bring the name of young people, they bring their difficulties, but they do not bring a single proposal to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u189	In practice, ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u190	Worse: more than they don't bring proposals, they place themselves next to the PS and the PSD to bring down the proposals of the Arrival that want to fix the young people inside. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Moreover, during the budget period of the State, the arrival presented a programme that intended, in fact, that there would be tax benefits, support for the home itself and for the permanent housing of young people in the interior and, above all, exemption from tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u191	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u192	We're at Easter. How many young people will stop visiting their parents at this time because they don't have to pay the tolls, sir. Ladies and gentlemen? [[All right, exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u193	But for all this, there is no answer, neither the Liberal Initiative, nor the PS, nor any other parties. So if you don't know or don't want to do it, let the party you want to re-enter Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u194	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor. [[Pause.]] Don't you have the word? But he was registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u195	No problem, Mr. President. We changed the order, but there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u196	But it's not mandatory...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u197	No problem, no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u198	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. I start by confessing that yesterday I went to dinner at a restaurant in Lisbon called Lisbon Comedy Club. It's a comedy space. And I was reminding myself of that dinner I had yesterday because I would have liked to laugh at the speeches made by Mr Rui Tavares and Mr Ventura at the beginning if I were at Lisbon Comedy Club — I would have liked to laugh at you — but it is not possible. So let's really talk about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u200	They have no sense of humor! There's a lack of sense of humor in the IL, never laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u201	I believe that there is a consensus in this House, and no one will disagree: in fact, we have a problem of desertification, a problem in a territory that is inclined toward the coast. We agree. And I think we will all agree, too, that this problem would be much worse if we had not had the implementation of a dynamic and some institutions, which were the political institutes, for that country outside. What would be Bragança or Portalegre, to give two more paradigmatic examples, if they had not had, a few years ago, the implementation of their political institutes and also of some universities?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u202	I mean, what would it be without the state? What would be without public policies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u203	Let's look at the White Castle district. What would be in the White Castle district if your capital didn't have a polytechnic institute, or if you didn't have the pole in Idanha? Or, if the University of the Interior Beira did not exist in Covilhã, what would it have been from Covilhã? The problem would be much worse. Therefore, they are a good example of how, in this case, public bodies, being inside, create a whole dynamic of not only who was born there and who lived there, how to take people to these localities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u204	That is, what would be without public policies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u205	Returning to the example of Castelo Branco, if you do not know, there were many Portuguese, young Portuguese, who were not from Castelo Branco, went to study there, to the Agrarian School,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u206	What about the Guard?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u207	...then they integrated the frameworks of a company that existed there and that is a multinational, Danone, and today they are in this world outside and they are high frames of this multinational. Therefore, this is a good dynamic, too, of how not only for a time do good results are created in these regions, in these locations, but also the one who is the Portuguese talent for this outside world. Then he was funny, because I heard some speeches from the Socialist Party Members who were talking about, in particular, two former mayors, but did not touch on one point. And I stayed: "Well, maybe they're going to have some stink and they're not going to talk about the question that other Members were talking about, which is the concern with the workers: how do the workers of these bodies that the Liberal Initiative proposes to relocate? Do not keep on seeking. ” They were not playing at this point, there were other parties, until Mr Eduardo focused on it and did not take that care. It is hypocrisy to be showing concern for the workers of these institutes whose relocation we are proposing when they are doing what they are doing to the workers of the SEF. It's just that the SEF workers don't even want to ask where they're going, that's when they're going. As if that were not enough, yesterday at a meeting they had with the representatives of the workers of the SEF gave them a new one: they can also go to the Tax Authority. SEF workers don't want to know where they're going anymore, that's when! So, yes, it is necessary to make a process for these things and to take care of the workers, and some of the concerns that have been conveyed in various interventions were related to workers, to what is the reality of the bodies, to the provision of services to the citizens, to the sense of locations, to the criteria, to the financial impacts — it almost seems that the Liberal Initiative is already in government, very thanks to everyone. If you agree that this is a matter of concern, see this debate as a starting point and let everyone, in the process of expertise, debate, establish criteria. Everyone come to the debate! We're going to the specialty, we're going to relocate, we're going to fight centralism, we're going to improve Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u208	What about regionalization? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u209	What is known is that, taking away the PSD, which has been very supportive of our concerns and solutions and has clearly said that he wanted to accompany us, everyone else has a statistic, centralist view of whom he wants nothing to do, from whom he wants nothing to begin, from whom he wants nothing to reform, and while the country is going to sink. [[Applause from the IL.]] Ladies and gentlemen, an alternative to centralism is needed, and for this alternative they have the Liberal Initiative. If the PSD wants to count on us, we'll be here to give the country an alternative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u210	What about regionalization? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u211	Do you want to do regionalization or not? Does the IL already have a position?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u212	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking today about territorial development, a comprehensive concept which aims not only at economic growth in their regions, but also at their sustainability from an economic, social, environmental and cultural point of view, and which, in so far as it has a highly qualitative dimension, requires strong commitment and coherence in the design and implementation of public policies. Developing the territories was taken as an effective priority in order to create jobs, provide services, reduce territorial imbalances and enhance the development of our country as a whole. in this sense, the Socialist Party, in defining its strategic challenges in the Government Programme, has made a clear and strong commitment to promoting territorial cohesion in all its declines, assuming it as a priority not only in terms of social justice and approximation among all Portuguese, but also in response to other challenges, such as the valorization of our resources, democratic sustainability or balanced economic development, mitigating asymmetry and reinforcing feelings of belonging. in this wish it has been the concern of the socialist governments to implement various measures and instruments of support so that the territories can approach.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u215	The measures and support instruments promoted by the Government, such as the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion — now adjusted for the Inland Development Programme —, the Portugal 2020 and Portugal 2030 programmes, the PRR, as well as the State Budget measures providing for the creation of new services, preferably installed in already defined territories, are assumed as paths aligned with economic and social development, seeking to achieve more growth, more employment, more equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u217	In the area of education, and in the example of several CIMs (intermunicipal communities), the CIMs of Ave, whose geographical area is covered by Portaria No 208 / 2017, and which, within the framework of the Portugal 2020 programme, acceded to the Integrated Plans and Innovatives of Combating School Failure, involving all municipalities. These plans represented very significant investments in the territories, focused their activity on the implementation of pedagogical methodologies adapted to the specific characteristics and needs of that population and have presented significant results, in terms of the decrease of retention and withdrawal rate and consequent improvement of academic results. This programme, like others, is an extraordinary reference to the development of our territories and results from a true policy of articulation and proximity, with more targeted responses and therefore more effective. This is also the case of the project promoted together with the State Secretariat of the Educational Administration, DGE ( Directorate-General of School Establishments ) and the CIM of the Lands of Trás-os-Montes, which provides for the sharing and diversification of educational and formative supply, mitigating the isolation factor, which is a frequent factor of demotivation and consequent dropout. Also at the level of education, the State budget provides for the current school year the allocation of scholarships to 2800 students of the 33 municipalities in the interior of the country. Also in the area of culture and heritage, the investments foreseen in the RRP value cultural heritage, but seek to promote employment, attract new audiences and strengthen relations and mobility in the territory. In the interior territories, 69 contracts were made with municipalities under the PRR on an investment amounting to EUR 17 million as well as 100% support for cultural and tourist activities in the field of network cultural promotion. in this context, we can give the example of the project Out of Box. We can also speak in health projects, such as the acquisition of mobile health units, or other such pressing ones for the interior territories, such as the safety and measures of nearest public services or flexible and on demand. In other words, in the context of the subject under discussion, it is important to take into account the spatial peculiarities and territorial articulations as a way to promote bridges between the territories. It is essential to implement measures that strengthen the proximity between territories and that they are consolidated by the relations they are part of, articulate in the breakdown of insularity and allow economic dynamics centripetally. It is up to us to ensure the effectiveness of these joints and to ensure that all citizens have quality public services, regardless of the model that can be implemented and that is more suited to the needs of the territory, be it the relocation, digital connectivity, the decentralization of services or others, possibly with the contribution of all, that are more effective and close to the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u218	For an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, I am addressing this House as a Lisboa. I was born in Lisbon, I lived a lot of my life in Lisbon, I was the leader of the Liberal Initiative in Lisbon, I love Lisbon, and, as a Lisboa, I have to tell you that I don't like the Lisbon macrocephaly, I don't like Lisbon centralism. I don't like because it makes the country bad, it's one of the great factors of underdevelopment and delay in this country, it's one of the great factors of inequality of opportunities in this country, but I don't like why it hurts Lisbon. Lisbon would have more quality of life if it were not so macro-cephalus, we would have more easy access to housing at lower prices, we would have more mobility, we would have more quality of life and we would have better environment in Lisbon if we were not centralists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u220	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u221	That is why, as a Lisboa, with enthusiasm, I support the proposals we bring today, in order to take a dozen and a half public bodies out of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u222	What about the Guard?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u223	And if I have any criticism, that's what few are. I tried to find out how many employees work in these bodies, how many employees we would necessarily have to seek an announcement. Members — of course, we should seek the announcement of these officials — and, as the Information System of the State Organization does not yet work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u224	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u225	...I had to estimate, more or less, that number: they will not exceed 5000 or 6000,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u226	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u227	...in a total of 731 000 public servants in this country. So here's the incentive. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Joana Mortágua, is so interventional, intervenes more, proposes other bodies that can be relocated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u228	To the land of the father!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u229	What about the Guard?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u230	... with the announcement of workers. Go ahead, take advantage of your poison. So if I have anything to criticize, as I have already said, this proposal is not ambitious enough, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened today in this debate is proof that Portugal is a centralist country. If anyone wants to understand how we came to this state of centralism, see today's debate. See the absence of the government: centralism. See the ease that parties have to criticise the lack of criteria or lack of studies and propose zero, from this point of view: centralism. They see the ease that everyone has to agree to the diagnosis, but everything is stopped: centralism. If it were not the Liberal Initiative, with today's proposal, this matter was never discussed—it was never discussed! But I must also tell you, and this is the final proof, that it is not enough to discuss this, because everything remains in itself, and the history of our democracy has been this. We discuss what should remain in Lisbon, what should not remain in Lisbon, there is never a study or criterion to put the bodies in Lisbon, but studies and criteria are needed to remove the Lisbon bodies. You argue, you argue, you argue, you argue, you end up, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is left in Lisbon. That's why we're centralists. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u231	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Liberal Initiative took another shot, not on the aircraft carrier, but on the small boat it has. It was proven that doing a project on the knee, without doing studies, without analysis, could only give a redundancy of these. Mr Rui Rocha comes, certainly because he's from Braga, talk about the transfer from ASAE to Braga. I would like to understand the criterion, Mr. Deputies, I would like to see if the leaves went to the air and on the map of Braga became the role of ASAE. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] I would like to ask the honourable Member if you know what the Braga district has in relation to housing and where it is going to put more than 500 families there, how they will transfer them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u233	Propose it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u234	Besides that we are forgetting something very important, Mr President: how do you agree to change the lives of people without these people being consulted?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u235	Who said they weren't consulted?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u236	The families are here, the children's studies are here, the husband's life, or the wife's life, is here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u237	40% of the families are already here! They've come to Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u238	Do you want to separate the families? Do you want to make the economic situation of families worse? Is that what you guys want to do? Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a little decorating! Think about it first, analyze our proposal and see the difference. Our proposal is, above all, to fix our young people inside, to give them conditions so that they do not want to come to the coast, so that they can see that the interior can have advantages. Give them tax benefits, give them incentives to make their lives there, create the family there — so that they do not have to separate the family — to be someone in life. Before we take a measure that can and will influence families and their quality of life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u239	They've come to Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u240	...we're going to do studies, we're going to think and work, we're not going to take hasty action. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u241	We've done that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u242	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Sobrinho Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate actually brings to the debate the problem of the development of the interior, in its relationship with centralism and the macrocephaly of capital. I would like to tell you that, from my experience, the biggest problem of the internal market is, in fact, the reduction in population, which drives all other problems. Therefore, in addition to improving the attractiveness conditions of these territories, it is essential to bet on creating an economy to create jobs. I wanted here to demystify the perception—in fact, a perception that is essentially based on ignorance—that no one wants to go inside, and I will give some examples to help undo this urban myth. With the exception of the area of medicine, transversal to the country, I do not remember any competition opened by the local or central administration that has become desert. But I remember - very well, for example, of the two highly qualified resource recruitment contests - I speak, essentially, in masters - that they had the following attractiveness, and of course I am talking about the creation by the PS governments of collaborative laboratories: the Collaborative Laboratory AquaValor, in Chaves, with 279 applications for 8 different profiles, or the Collaborative Laboratory MORE, in Bragança, with 982 applications for 24 different profiles. The essential thing is thus to create an economy to create jobs. And one of the good examples we had to create the economy was the competitions aimed at the interior, which must and must be increased. I refer to the programme + CO3SO Employment and the recruitment of highly qualified resources, in which the relationship between the financial volume of approved projects and the funds made available was three to one, having had to be strengthened. This is also a good example of the work carried out by the State Secretariat for Regional Development, located in Bragança. But it is also essential, in order to create a competitive economy, to create knowledge, and I would like to highlight what has been the work done in higher education over the past few years. We had 36 municipalities with higher education in 2015, and we had 134 locations with higher education in 2022. I will repeat : we had 36 municipalities with higher education, in 2015, and we have in 2022, 134 localities with higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The IES of the interior has invariably increased the number of students over the past few years and, for this evolution, the policy followed in the management of vacancies, in which the increase in vacancies has been attributed to the institutions of the interior. This policy has enabled an institution such as the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança — which we hope will soon assume the designation of the Polytechnic University of Bragança — to exceed 10 000 students, which has determined in the PRR the investment of more than 16 million and 400 thousand euros for the creation of more than 502 beds. It is therefore crucial to deepen these policies for the provision of critical mass essential, to create a competitive economy. Our challenge is thus job creation to generate economics and to encourage the economy to generate jobs. I would like to set a good example here for the last governments in which I spoke. I am referring to the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 115 / 2021 of 23 August concerning the Erasmus Programme, which states in paragraph 16 that: "Determining that [...] the increase of workers in relation to the limits provided for in the Resolution of the 2014 Council of Ministers [... ] should be affected by operational centres and centres of competence and dissemination, regional or local, with a view to expanding the territorial distribution of the Agency in the country and the evolution of its functioning for a multipolar structure. Do not keep on seeking. ” We have here an example in which 37 more jobs have been created, all of which are actually affected by a multipolar structure, with the creation of three more poles in the low density areas by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a good example of what has already been done by the governments of the Socialist Party and is a good example of what must be done, and that the draft resolution presented by the PS in this House promotes, especially in a vision of creating new jobs within it, but without forcing anyone to move. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u244	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Barbosa de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate of centralism, of the interior, of the development of the territory is probably — and today we have seen - here, several times - one of the debates that most lend themselves to the inflamed statements, to vague speeches, sometimes even, as the people say, to "fill gossips", to announcements so often inconsequential. Debate after debate, it's about the same langue, unfortunately,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u246	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u248	... and this ends up going almost always to the same, which is: « Cohabits of the interior... Cohabits! We have two to help. Do not keep on seeking. ” Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have to help in this regard. That's not what the inside needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u250	The interior needs to be respected! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] The people who live there deserve to be respected, also by this House, by whom here votes projects and by whom projects like those who came here today. People deserve that respect. So I would say this very simply: it is not of assistance that the interior needs, it is of justice. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] And it is the duty of this House, it is the duty of all who are here, to provide this justice to those who, inside, give the best of themselves so that the interior ceases to be such an antre of little ones,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u252	... as is often seen by many people in this House. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u253	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Gomes, also from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u254	Mr President, there is one aspect which was very clear in today's debate in this House, which is a widespread criticism of the opposition to VV. Ex., the Socialist Party, with regard to the inability to move from the role to practice, to carry out reforms, to carry out clear projects and initiatives, with a view to the development of the interior of the country. The Liberal Initiative has the merit of bringing this issue to this House and of motivating this debate, because, in fact, it was an opportunity for all of us to ask again where the results of the decentralization reform are.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u255	In education, in health, in social action...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u256	A decentralisation whose process — still came today in a daily newspaper in our country — is all too late. A decentralisation that is not decentralisation is a process in which you are making the presidents of the government alpaca manga. [[PSD applause.]] These seven years that you have of government were enough time to show work on the inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u257	Oh, yes! Seven and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u258	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party elected by the interior of the country see themselves in the politics of the Socialist Party, when after this House has voted the discount on the motorways of the interior, it changed in the Council of Ministers what was approved to raise the tolls, contrary to a discussion which this Assembly of the Republic took in its time. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mrs. Members of the inside, Mrs Sónia Ramos has just mentioned a very important issue, which is not just the PSD she refers to. We had the chance at 13th. the Commission, to hear all the presidents of the CCDRs in this country, which have almost clearly stated that this process of administrative reform of the NUTS was a closed process and may have very serious consequences on the departure from the Alentejo region of the convergence region from 2028, leaving access to Community funds. [[PSD applause.]] But then we also asked: the gentlemen, who made the PRR flag, who went all over the country presenting the PRR...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u259	And let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u260	Great achievement! Great conquest of the PS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u261	On this point, Mr Brillante Dias, I have two questions to say. One first is that the report of the European Union which came out in October 2022 said only that Portugal was the country that most centralized the elaboration of the PRR,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u262	It's the fifth! It's the fifth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u263	...that he less agreed, that he less spoke to people. [[PSD applause.]] But I already know your answer. The PS response is obvious: it will return to the times of the troika and open again the channel History—but it is not a channel History that we can see on TVCabo, is a channel History that you have invented, you know what? Of the fake news. Fake news! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] You know why? Because you believe in the maximum that a lie often becomes true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u264	It's management!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u265	It's the fifth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u266	But this House has alta, it has deliberations, it has memory, it has records, videos and hearings, which demonstrate that those who took the country to the troika were the lords and that there was a party that rescued the country, which was the Social Democratic Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u267	To close the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u268	Mr. President, today, the Liberal Initiative has done something no other party had done in this House, until today:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u269	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u270	That's true, such a bad proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u271	... a fixation of the agenda devoted to the theme of centralism. For the first time, at the will of the Liberal Initiative, we spent two and a half hours in this House discussing one of the main problems of this country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u272	Since 1820 this didn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u273	At the end of this debate, there was one thing that nobody answered: we have a centralist country, and this has consequences on people's lives and regional inequality. No one has also been able to argue that the form of State organization contributes to this. Even though they recognize that the problem exists and that political decisions contribute to it, almost no one has brought forward proposals, and many parties have already said that they will not even follow our proposals, resorting to a number of blasphemous excuses about details. [[All right!]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u274	These proposals have been submitted for a long time. All parties had the opportunity to present alternatives, supplements; they could have proposed other locations, organisms; they could have suggested alternative mechanisms or other decision models; they could have presented something, anything! But they didn't! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Instead, they showed disinterest and ignorance, ignorance about what already exists. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We have heard the arrival, the BE and the Free asking, insistently, about the mobility process of workers, demonstrating their ignorance about the mobility mechanism in public functions, which has already existed since 2017, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! This mechanism has existed since 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u275	With the PS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u276	PS criticisms are particularly contradictory, because it has already presented proposals in this House, in the past, for relocations with exactly the same format as ours, exactly the same format. But more than ignorance, Mr. Members, what they have shown was, above all, disinterested in the subject. They preferred immobilism, resorting to various excuses, because, despite beautiful speeches, they do not care so much about centralism. If they did, they would make the proposals viable by changing what they thought should be changed in the special discussion. But no! Instead of proposals, what you should give today is explanations. If these proposals go down, the PS will have to explain to the population of Porto because, after several times, this House promises the change of Infarmed to Port, today will reject it. You will also have to explain to the Douro population why the Vinha and Wine Institute should be in Lisbon and not in Vila Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u278	But it's not just the PS you have to explain. The arrival will have to explain to the population of Portalegre why you chose the Agency for Development and Cohesion to stay in Lisbon, and not in Portalegre! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u279	You've never been to Portalegre! You know where he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u280	IL has to get to the Alentejo to explain it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u281	The CFP, if they fall, will have to explain to the population of Beja why it preferred the Institute of Financing for Agriculture and Fisheries to stay in Lisbon, not in Beja.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u282	You know where Beja is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u283	The Left Block will have to explain to the population of Aveiro because it has chosen the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere to stay in Lisbon instead of Aveiro, where it has previously relocated many of its activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u284	But why Aveiro and not Miranda do Corvo?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u285	I hope that, in general, when they return to their district at the end of this plenary session, all Members will explain to people why they have rejected more employment opportunities, because they have rejected more career opportunities for these people. Over the past 20 years, the Lisbon Metropolitan Area has accumulated more than 200 000 people in a declining national population. We have a centralist country and most of us in this House don't mind that it goes on like this. [[L. Protests.]] We will continue to have a centralist country because you want it this way, because you have chosen once more today. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u286	No, it was the market!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u287	You don't like Lisbon, go to Porto!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u288	You have preferred immobilism to decentralism, but you can be sure that we will not give up fighting centralism, even if we do it alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u289	That's hate speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u290	We do not give up, we do not leave our country and we will return, as today, to bring the issue to debate. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u291	So we end up on one of our agendas. Let us move on to point two on the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to operate the quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who proceed to the register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any of your colleagues have not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Mr Hugo Carneiro gave this indication and is manually registered by the Bureau. [[Pause.]] I ask the services to close the quorum verification system and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we will proceed to deliberations. First we have the Vote Project No. 311 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret of the death of José Maria Mendes Godinho. In the case of an old Member, the draft vote will be read by Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « José Maria Parente Mendes Godinho died last March 30, at 78 years. Born on August 5, 1944, in Tomar, he graduated from Veterinary Medicine, having since early a strong civic participation. He participated in the Congress of the Democratic Opposition in Aveiro, which celebrated this year in its 50th anniversary. In 1974, after 25 April, he joined the first council of the City Hall of Tomar, to which he would be affectionately linked forever. After 25 April, he developed political and civic activity since the beginning of the democratic regime: he was elected a Member for the Constituent Assembly in 1975, by the district of Santarém, and was later elected a Member for the first elections to the Assembly of the Republic, also by Santarém, exercising the parliamentary mandate until 1980. He was appointed, by the district of Santarém, of the presidential candidacy of Francisco Salgado Zenha, in 1986, and in 2013 would be affidavit of the presidential candidacy of the Socialist Party in Tomar. In the plan of civic intervention, he was one of the founders of the M.G. Association. — Memorial Mendes Godinho, in memory of the business group that was central in the Town Hall of Tomar and in the region during the 20th century, and to which José Maria Mendes Godinho is umbilically connected. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of José Maria Parente Mendes Godinho, recalling his qualities and addressing to his family and friends his deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u293	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence of the relatives of José Maria Mendes Godinho and address the condolences on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic. We will now appreciate the Vote Project No. 313 / XV / 1. a ( presented by members of the Parliamentary Group of Amizade Portugal-Japan ).................................................................................................. I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u294	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Sunday, we had knowledge of the death of the Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto, which occurred on March 28 at 71 years of age after prolonged illness. Born in Tokyo, in 1952, Sakamoto began to have piano classes at the age of six, coming later to attend Tokyo University of the Arts to study music. There, he had contact with the first synthesizers and, excited with this world, from Debussy to the Kraftwerk Germans, began working on several musical projects. Sakamoto's career began in the late 1970s at Yellow Magic Orchestra ( YMO), with Haruomi Hosono and Yukihiro Takahashi, a band that opened new paths in electronic music. The group separated in 1984 and met again only in a few occasional sessions. As an actor, in 1983, in the film Feliz Natal, Mr. Lawrence, of Nagisa Oshima, next to David Bowie, where he also produced the main theme, work recognized with a BAFTA (British Academy of Film and Television Arts ). Sakamoto noted himself as a solo artist, particularly in the composition of soundtracks, ending up becoming the first Japanese to win an Oscar, with the soundtrack of the film The Last Emperor by Bernardo Bertolucci in 1987. With a career of almost 50 years, he collaborated with names such as David, Sylvian Alva Noto, Bill Laswell, Iggy Pop, Caetano Veloso and Portuguese Rodrigo León on the themes António and Rosa, songs that integrate the 2004 album of Leon, Cinema. In addition to music and cinema, Ryuichi Sakamoto was also an environmental activist, supporting the anti-nuclear movement after the tragedy in the Japanese central Fukushima. Members of the Parliamentary Group of Amizade Portugal-Japan noted the disappearance of Sakamoto as a loss in the international cultural landscape. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its sorrow over the death of Ryuichi Sakamoto, a Japanese composer who has led the electronic music through paths that will last forever in our memory and address to his family and friends the most sense of feeling. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u295	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 317 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP, BE and PS ) — For the death of José Duarte, and I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u296	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « José Duarte, a musical critic and one of the biggest jazz broadcasters in Portugal, died in Lisbon, on March 30, 2023, at 84 years of age. Born in Lisbon, in 1938, José Duarte soon discovered what would be his passion, a music considered subversive by the dictatorship, jazz, and in 1958, he was founder, with Raúl Calado, of the University Club of Jazz de Lisboa, the year in which he started on Radio University the Jazz Esso Unknown program. His Five Minute Jazz program, which started in 1966 on Renaissance Radio and remained on Antenna 1 since 1993, was the oldest Portuguese radio program and made jazz enter the Portuguese house, who learned to love the music that José Duarte considered to be the most beautiful art invented in the 20th century. José Duarte starred other iconic radio programs like Manteiga bread, Jazz with Brancas, Girl Dance? , Back from midnight and Abandajazz. On television, he was responsible for programs like Other Music and Jazz to Black and White. Assiduous presence in the press, he was founder and director of The Jazz Paper magazine. He was also responsible for the first LP(long playing) jazz recorded live in Portugal with foreign musicians: Stylish, by Steve Lacy, in 1972. Author of several books on jazz, multiple conferences and biodiscographies of Portuguese musicians in the New Grove Dictionary of Jazz, guest assistant professor at the University of Aveiro and the respective Center for Jazz Studies and editor of the websitewww.jazzportugal.ua.pt, José Duarte was awarded in 2004 with the Medal of Cultural Merit of the Ministry of Culture ; in 2005 with the Medal of Honor of the Portuguese Society of Authors; in 2008 with the Municipal Medal of Mérito-Ouro of the Municipal Chamber of Lisbon ; and on 10 June 2009 he was co-ordinated by the President of the Republic as the Great Officer of the Order of Merit. Aware of the importance of music in the struggle for freedom, José Duarte, as a man of culture, was a fighter against obscurantism imposed by the fascist dictatorship and was, in democracy, a citizen committed to building a more just and supportive society. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays its tribute to the memory of José Duarte and his journey and legacy in the dissemination of jazz in Portugal, addressing to his family and friends his most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u297	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously]] I welcome the presence of relatives of José Duarte in the gallery and address, on behalf of Parliament, the condolences. I ask all 1 minute silence in honor of these three people. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The next discussion concerns the Voting Project No. 319 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L ) — Greetings for the 50 years of the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition, which I read: « This week is the 50th anniversary of the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition, which took place in Aveiro between 4 and 8 April 1973 and was an important moment of affirmation of the opposition to fascism and the dictatorial regime of the New State. This convention arose following the two previous congress, also held in Aveiro in 1957 and 1969, which had become a meeting point between opponents of the regime, of various trends. It was a moment of rice, or, as the President of the First Congress called it, “a blue nesga de liberté”, in a country where the opposition was, at least, semi-landestine, and where there was no freedom of expression and association. A nesga that did not prevent the intervention of the shock police, who loaded on the participants in the peaceful romage to the tomb of Mário Sacramento, causing several injuries. in an environment in which it was increasingly clear that Marcelo Caetano’s leadership was no longer, in fundamental matters, than the continuity of salazarism, the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition was an act of civic affirmation and resistance, which reflected in the intense debate produced and in the presentation of unitary lists to the “elections ” legislative this year, strengthening left-wing forces (such as Republicans, communists and socialists) that publicly opposed the dictatorial regime. At the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition, they begin to grow some of the strong ideas of 25 April of the following year, such as the countless “three days” — Democracy, Decolonization and Development — that would inform the MFA programme ( Armed Forces Movement ). It is also in this congress that is creating a landslide that the Armed Forces (which had helped to establish the regime and that they had been fighting for 12 years in the Colonial War) could be a political instrument of rupture at the service of the country's ideal transformer. Not by chance, the work of the Congress was attended by future captains of April. 50 years ago, the regime suffered a significant shock, the consequences of which were reflected in the April Revolution and Democracy. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the 50 years of the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition, thus paying tribute to all those who participated in it and contributed to us living today in freedom and democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ” We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[PSP, PSD, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L (on foot) and Members of the Bureau applauded.]] We shall now vote, in general, on Law No 64 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2021 / 514 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of the PS, the CH and the L, the vote against the CFP and the abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the BE and the NAP.]] The proposal goes down to 5. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 532 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Return to the PPP management model in the Hospitals of Braga, Loures and Vila Franca de Xira. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 533 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Model for the management of hospitals of the National Health Service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 224 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Flexibility of the legal regime of public-private partnerships in the field of health. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 262 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the network of equipment and services to support the elderly and valuing the associations of pensioners, pensioners and the elderly. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 676 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates the Charter of the Rights of Senior Citizens. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS and the CH abstentions.]] The project goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 561 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Integrates the procedural recovery supplement into the maturity of judicial officers ( amendment to Decree-Law No 485 / 99 of 10 November, which establishes compensation measures for the recovery of procedural delays ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] Mrs Alexandra Leitão asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u298	Mr President, that is to say that I will give a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u299	All right, get registered. The general vote of Bill No. 646 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Integration of the procedural recovery supplement into the maturity of judicial officials ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 485 / 99 of 10 November ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] Has Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor to make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u300	No, Mr. President, I'm sorry. It is to change the direction of vote in Bill No 64 / XV / 1. the, because I was in favour, but it is to pass the abstention, if you do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u301	All right, then, Law Proposal No 64 / XV / 1. the Government was adopted with the votes in favour of the PS and the Free Paper, the vote against the CFP and the abstentions of the other parliamentary groups and the only representative of the NAP. Let us continue, then, to assume that with the presentation of the declaration of vote in writing by Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u302	Yes, Mr President, concerning the votes in Bills Nos 561 and 646 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u303	Let us then proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 668 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 485 / 99 of 10 November establishing compensation measures for the recovery of procedural delays, raising to 14 months a year the benefits of the procedural recovery supplement of judicial officers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 669 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 4 / 2017 of 6 January incorporating the judicial officers into the differentiated retirement scheme provided for in this legal diploma. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 672 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures payment of the supplement to compensate for the work of recovery of procedural delays. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 679 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure, as part of the review of the Staff Regulations of Justice Officers, the review of careers, wage conditions and a special retirement scheme and establishes compensation measures for the recovery of proceedings. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 540 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the review of the Statute of the Court Officers and undertake urgent recruitment of judicial officials. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 552 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of urgent measures concerning judicial officials. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 572 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Transfer the headquarters of the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IP to the city of Portimão, amending Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 of 2 August 2012. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions against the CH, BE and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 596 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Transfer the headquarters of Infarmed, IP to the city of Porto, amending Decree-Law No 46 / 2012 of 24 February. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected, votes in favour of PSD, IL and PAN and abstentions from CH, BE, L and PS Deputies José Carlos Barbosa, Maria João Castro, Rosário Gambôa and Rui Lage.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u304	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u305	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u306	Mr President, I am sorry, it is only to say that we will present a statement of vote, on my own behalf, on behalf of Mrs Maria João Castro and Mrs Rosario Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u307	All right, excluding Mr. José Carlos Barbosa, or including?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u308	Including.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u309	It's a Portuguese statement, all right. [[Ladies and gentlemen' laughs.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 690 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Transfer the seat of the National Communications Authority to the city of Viseu, amending Decree-Law No 39 / 2015 of 16 March, the seat of the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds to the city of Castelo Branco, amending Decree-Law No 1 / 2015 of 6 January, the seat of the Regulatory Entity of Energy Services to the city of Leiria, amending Decree-Law No 97 / 2002 of 12 April, and the seat of the Competition Authority to the city of Santarém, amending Decree-Law No 125 / 2014 of 18 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD and IL and abstentions against the CH, BE, PAN and L.]] The Resolution Project 575 / XV / 1 follows. a (IL) — Recommends the relocation of various bodies and the installation of all new public administration bodies within the country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on points as requested by the Liberal Initiative. With regard to point 1, who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] I am sorry, there is a request for a vote on points and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, are you telling me that we can all vote together? My Cartesian mentality refuses to do so! [[Pause.]] The Liberal Initiative called for a point-by-point vote... Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias asked for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u310	Mr President, on an economic point for us, all the points together less than 13 can be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u311	Can they all be voted together unless point 13? So, point 1...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u312	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u313	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u314	Mr President, I would also ask for the exception of point 14. Therefore, he asked to vote separately on points 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u315	All right. So let's vote points from 1 to 12. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions against the CH, BE and the NAP.]] We now turn to the vote on point 13, which is on page 11 of the script. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the IL and the L, the vote against the CFP and PS, the CH, BE and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on point 14. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the NAP were rejected, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions against the CH, BE and L.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u316	Mr President, to say that we will present a written statement of vote on the votes of the Lein Projects 572, 596 and 690 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 575 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u317	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u318	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that I shall submit a written declaration of vote on all initiatives on decentralization submitted by IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u319	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Did Mrs Inês de Sousa Real ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u320	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u321	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Eduardo Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u322	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Ricardo Pinheiro and Mr Nelson Brito on draft resolution No 575 / XV / 1. a, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u323	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to page 12 of the script, with the general vote of Bill No. 694 / XV / 1. a (L) — Defines the auscultation process and the assessment process prior to the possible relocation of public collectives. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the CH, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u324	It was a good project! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u325	We continue with the general vote of Bill No 702 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the strengthening of the funds allocated to the municipalities of the territories of the interior of the country, listed in Portaria No 208 / 2017 of 13 July, by means of the law of local finances, Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 401 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Ensure structural investments to recover recycling and strengthen the circular economy. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 554 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By regulation of the profession of optometrist. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote against the PS, votes in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, IL, PCP and L.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft Law No 216 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures access to the State's institutional advertising campaigns, to the social media bodies directed to the Portuguese communities abroad, making the second amendment to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, IL and the CFP.]] We then move on to the request by the CFP for a vote by the plenary in the specialty of Article 2. the addition and addition of Article 2. o-B to the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 70 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transitional application of VAT exemption to certain food products. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then move on to the supplementary script, and I imagine that there are interventions in this period of law. Mrs Emília Cerqueira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u326	Mr President, with regard to this script, the PSD would like to request the breakdown by numbers of the vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the CFP, in addition to Article 2. the, because we only get the script about 11 o'clock in the morning. Therefore, we would like to vote on this article in four blocks separately if possible: paragraphs 1 to 4 ; then paragraphs 5 to 8 ; then paragraph 9 ; and finally paragraph 10.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u327	I assume that there is no opposition from the different parliamentary groups, so we will do so. First, however, let's hear the arguments. Mr Duarte Alves has the floor in order to intervene on behalf of the CFP within a maximum of 2 minutes. I ask for strict compliance with this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP advocates two proposed amendments to the Government's proposal for VAT (value added tax) zero. The first proposal concerns the reduction of energy VAT to 6 % and telecommunications to 13 %, whereas the increase in energy taxes made by the PSD/CDS Government should be reversed, which would be taxed as essential ; and in the case of telecommunications, taking into account that ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) itself has already reported that Portugal was the country where telecommunications prices increased most throughout the European Union. We also propose price control to ensure that this reduction in VAT is reflected in consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u329	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u330	With regard to essential goods, and that is the second proposal, we propose a price control regime on these same goods. The Government's proposal for a law does not guarantee that the reduction of VAT from 6 % to 0 % in that product set has an effective impact on the price paid by consumers. Nothing in the law guarantees or promotes it. What the CFP proposes is that this price control scheme ensures that these 6 % will not go right to Sonae and Pinko Doce pockets.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u331	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u332	This is the proposal which we are proposing, on the one hand, to make VAT reflect, and on the other, because the very margins of these large distribution companies must also be called upon to contribute to the relief of the prices paid by consumers. If the ECB itself ( European Central Bank ) recognises that this inflationary spiral comes from increases in profit margins rather than wages, what the government needs to do is stop compressing wages and pensions and increase wages and compressing the margins of the economic groups of the distribution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u333	That is what needs to be done to ensure that this measure of VAT reduction is in fact reflected in the prices paid by the consumer. It is in this sense that the CFP submits these proposals, allowing the Assembly of the Republic to reconsider this possibility of approving a price control regime on food goods, so that prices actually fall. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u334	There was already a time when this parliamentary group failed for 2 seconds. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u335	It was the computer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u336	Was it the computer? All right. So there's the answer to normality. [[Laughing.]] You now have the floor to speak to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u337	Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that, as a single Member of Parliament, we are not discussing the addition to this list of certain products, such as vegetable protein, tofu or lentils, which would be quite important. in this set of proposals brought by the CFP, which we are discussing, it seems to us that the reduction and monitoring of prices are of the most fundamental justice. We cannot continue to have this increase and this increase in the cost of living of people, which is not only for the food of the family, but also extended to pets, in fact, we had a proposal, in this sense, that remained on the way. It is important that the debate that we are doing does not run out and that, then, whether under the State budget, be at the level of the monitoring that the Government has undertaken to do — and that we hope that it will not remain in the field of intentions — within three months, if necessary, this House will again discuss the exemption and the extension of deadlines, which has also been one of the issues it has been on the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u338	You now have the floor to speak by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This measure aims to save Portuguese families. It should also be recalled at this point that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in its specialty, agreed to extend this essential cassava to a set of products which were not planned at first. Therefore, if there is a clear objective of this proposal is that of saving Portuguese families, which are affected by inflation and which today have a higher cost of living than they had in the past. This proposal is therefore intended to meet these challenges. As regards the proposals that are being proposed today, we have for us that the administrative fixing of prices, of the two, or leads to tariff deficits — and we also know who pays those tariff deficits — or leads to empty shelves. Economic history demonstrates this and these proposals for administrative pricing have nothing to do with the proposed law submitted by the Government, which is based on an authorisation by the European Commission for essential products to be exempt from VAT. These proposals are in no way related to this proposal. It should also be pointed out that, from the point of view of the Community directive on VAT, Portugal is obliged to comply and, certainly, these proposals, as presented here by the Communist Party of Portugal, do not have any cabbage.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u340	What about the gas?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u341	I would like to point out again that the administrative fixing of prices leads, on the one hand, to tariff deficits or to empty meadows. With regard to energy, I would like to stress that the reduction of VAT from 23 % to 13 %, as well as the reduction of the ISP (charge on petroleum products) in relation to the VAT differential, had a clear effect, as well as the regulated market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u342	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP advocates three of the amendments proposed to the Bill No 70 / XV / 1. on energy VAT, we have often agreed. We do not agree with the systematic inclusion in this diploma resulting from the agreement with the Portuguese Association of Distribution Companies ( APED ) and the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ). Therefore, it is a systematic matter. As far as price fixing is concerned, I take the words of Mr Hugo Costa. We already know what that would do, so we couldn't have any more opposition. From this final text of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, a proposal for a law on which I have to say very little different from what we said here last week. The list continues to be arbitrary and will continue to be a problem to implement and monitor it, as we will have the opportunity to see; the list continues to reflect a paternalist charity of the State, imposing what people can and cannot consume; the list will continue to distort such market signals that Mr has just said that they do not usually produce good results, so we will continue to see this. It continues to make me a lot of impression that it is the Competition Authority to monitor an agreement which, in practice, is price-making — an Authority that is supposed to be competition. And it remains, above all, to be ashamed that, 49 years after 25 April, we need to support so many people and that so many people need food support to continue to eat in Portugal. All this goes on because with PS nothing changes. The Liberal Initiative believes that we really have to change something in Portugal and that will have to be without the PS because, I repeat, with the PS nothing changes. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u344	I now give the floor to Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal from the Government, which we discuss again because of the PCP, aims to reduce VAT in just a few food products that have been considered essential by the Government, and it is absolutely atypical for the Government to have the responsibility to choose which essential products are, without any certainty that the savings that Portuguese can come to benefit are effectively relevant. If you save 1 € or 2 € in the supermarket bill, I don't know if that's what will really help people solve the problem of losing purchasing power. Therefore, there is no certainty that the Portuguese will benefit from this reduction and it is astonishing that the Government recognises the inability to control price increases or decreases, i.e. to monitor, and that it needs to hire an external company. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u346	This is amazing! What do the government and the PS do? They disqualify public officials working in the area of inspection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u347	This is the truth that has to be said here! [[PSD applause.]] What the government was supposed to do — and that, yes, would meet the expectations of the Portuguese — was to lower the tax burden. But the PS doesn't move. And don't move why? Because he's been filling his pockets at the expense of the taxes charged to the Portuguese, which is truly regrettable. There is a guarantee that we can leave, that this is a concern for the PSD and that when we have the opportunity, that is, when the PSD is government, we will not fail to have this issue on the table. With regard to the project — and to finish — there are, however, some achievements which the PSD has achieved, particularly in gluten-free products for celiac patients, fermented yogurt and milk or powdered cow's milk, which meet measures relating to the health of Portuguese people. They are foods that Portuguese people who have certain health problems need and that we are able to include in the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u348	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u349	So this is what I would like to say and I hope that the PS will reflect very well on what you are doing with the tax burden. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u350	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u351	Mr President: This inflationary episode did not start yesterday; it has more than one year, and the government's positions on it were: wait to see — everyone remembers, it was temporary; then they created a price observatory, which had already been created, i.e. they were seen to rise; and then they did not descend VAT (tax on value added), because it was only a façade if it would arrive or not to consumers — and rightly so. But now, as there is an agreement with distributors and producers, with a façade and a conversation, prices are coming down. What is extraordinary is that the Free proposed, then, the following: if there is a follow-up committee in the agreement with economic agents, why is that monitoring committee not legislated, why is it not included in the current law? However, the PS has lead this proposal, which shows that it does not have a plan B for its plan to fail, because it can fail. As the CFP reminds us, and we will therefore follow these legal proposals, there is no incentive for economic operators to follow the price drop if they do not realize that the State has the capacity to control the margins if necessary. So let's see what's going to be the next PS position in this change to slow down inflation positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u352	Now, to speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Economic history does not say that; economic history says that controlling prices is a way to control inflation and that cutting wages to control inflation is a mistake. Still, the government cuts wages and refuses to control prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u354	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u355	More than economic history, there is also an economic present, a contemporary situation—which is that of Spain—from countries that have lowered VAT with a good faith agreement, a façade that large distributors would respect the government's will and that they quickly realized that VAT has become a profit of distribution companies, which increase inflation. The Government insists not only to learn from history, not to learn from the present and therefore goes to the façade and trusts that its fall in VAT will be reflected in prices, when evidence shows that, even before the fall in VAT, the announcement for prices is already rising. The government has no way of ensuring that the VAT drop reaches the consumer's pocket and then tells us that it will control prices. When we see what price control is, it is an observatory that will include hiring a private entity, paying with taxpayers' money, to do what people already do, which is to observe the prices to be raised when they get home and see the supermarket bill, Mr. Therefore, there is no way to ensure that prices will fall. We follow the proposals of the CFP, moreover, we have also submitted proposals for price control and for low energy VAT. And, finally, I would like to note Mr Prime Minister's discharge, which cuts salaries to public service — one month's salary per year — and then he will ask unionists to increase wages, because that is, yes, a way of combating inflation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u356	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting and recognizing what Mr. Hugo Carneiro said about the shameful performance of the PS, to define what are the products of the food cabaz. In fact, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, I would like to say here, in his eyes, the following: Mr. Deputies is prepared and will be a right choice as Secretary of State in an incoming government / PSD, you can be sure of that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member will be present, because he has an enormous capacity to intervene in this matter. Now, it doesn't stop being curious that, as Mr. Rui Tavares said, the problem of inflation... [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I ask you to allow me to finish, if possible. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u358	Mr President, in order to have an almost complete silence in the plenary session, only you are missing to resume your speech. Obviously you will have the time to conclude your reasoning.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, as Mr Rui Tavares said, this inflation story has not begun today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u360	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u361	In the State budget for 2022, the Czech Republic submitted a proposal for exemption from VAT on essential foodstuffs, and voted against PS, PSD, Left Block and PAN. This was in the State budget for 2022. For the State Budget for 2023, the Arrival resubmitted the same proposal and voted against the PSD and PS, while the CFP — which now brings the proposal here — abstained in the Budget for 2023. [[PCP protests and CH counter-protests.]] But the Arrival insisted on and in the Bill No. 436 / XV / 1. a (CH) has re-proposed the exemption from VAT in essential goods. in this case, the PSD, the Left Block and the PCP were abstained, and voted against the Socialist Party. So, in fact, this didn't start today. For the time being, it started a long time ago when all the other parties voted against and we wanted to bring VAT on essential goods, as essential, to the Portuguese population. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Portugal is one of the countries that pay the most for its energy. What we have today is an incomparable situation in European history, in which the reduction of VAT on electricity proposed by the Government saves €9 per year — €9 per year!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u362	That started with the Rabbit Steps!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u363	Again, as Mr. Rui Tavares said, history did not start here; it began when the Arrival brought the debate to Bill No. 264 / XV / 1. a (CH) to precisely lower the electricity VAT. You will know why, at the time, the PCP abstained, and the PAN and the Free too. Then, in the State budget, we brought the same proposal, 6 % at the VAT rate, but they voted against the Left Block, the PS and the PAN, and the PCP abstained, and now they bring the proposals here. I mean, now that prices are rising, now that things are difficult, they come to say that there should be more products,... [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] ...but a year ago and two years ago, they voted against the arrival proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u364	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u365	... to lower the VAT of electricity and to lower the VAT of food products.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u366	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u367	My dear ones, this is not called democracy, it is called shame and hypocrisy, which is what you are doing here in Parliament. That's what you're doing! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u368	The Rabbit Steps is that it has increased VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u369	I will finish, Mr President, because I know I've been away in time. Mr Hugo Costa, in fact we agree: the history of the economy shows that price fixing leads to empty shelves. Not necessarily everywhere, but almost everywhere. [[IL, BE and L protests.]] But price control is not the same as profit margin control. [[Rice from the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] And that's what he proposed. In fact, I find it strange that the PS is against this, because the last person who talked about this said the following: "It is the profit margins that are currently pushing inflation. Do not keep on seeking. ” You know who said that? It wasn't André Ventura, it wasn't Mariana Mortagua. Do you know who did it? He was the Governor of Banco de Portugal, Mário Centeno. [[CH's laughs.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] Therefore, it is very strange that the PS now rejects what the Governor of the Banco de Portugal himself said, who was Minister of Finance. It is only this, once again: shame, hypocrisy and a lack of democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u370	We shall now proceed to the vote, in accordance with the facts. First of all, we shall vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP, which will add a new paragraph 2 to Article 2. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 70 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transitional application of VAT exemption to certain food products. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: '2 - They are subject to the reduced VAT rate provided for in Article 1(1)(a). the 18. (b) natural gas; (c) propane, butane gas, and its mixtures, bottled or channelled. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u371	We are now also voting on the proposal to amend the CFP and add Article 2 ( 3 ). that of the same final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] It was as follows: « 3 - They are subject to the intermediate VAT rate provided for in Article 18 ( 1 ( b ). the VAT code, imports and transmissions of telecommunications services, including mobile and fixed communications, data transmission, and cable or satellite television services. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u372	We shall then proceed to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP, which shall be amended by Article 2. o-B to the final text, and the vote will be taken by numbers. So let us vote, firstly, together, paragraphs 1 to 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] They were the following: « 1 - for food goods identified in Article 2. (c) costs associated with logistics, including transport; (d) costs associated with advertising, marketing and product development; (e) costs associated with storage; (f) costs associated with the management of stocks and sales; (g) costs associated with breaks, in particular due to obsolescence of validity or theft, or failures in the supply chain; (h) profit margin; (i) taxes and charges. 2 - The margin referred to in point (h) of the previous paragraph establishes a regulated remuneration, at an appropriate financial level and compatible with the public interest, defined on the basis of technical and economic criteria. 3 - The components referred to in paragraph 1 may be defined by an indication of a range of values and shall be determined and published on a monthly basis by the Government. 4 - The speculative sale of essential food goods, understood as the sale at a price higher than the reference price defined in the preceding article, shall be prohibited without a reasonable justification. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u373	We now vote together in paragraphs 5 to 8. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] They were the following: « 5 - taxable persons who market products identified in Article 2. they have an obligation to provide the Food and Economic Safety Authority with the contracts and invoices for the products referred to in Article 2. the, as well as information on the components provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article. 6 - The violation of the provisions in the previous paragraph shall be punished as very serious economic counter-ordination, and the fines provided for in Article 18 ( c ) shall apply for each product in which the infringement occurs. the Legal Regime of Economic Contraordinations, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 9 / 2021 of 29 January. 7 - The counter-ordinations defined in the previous paragraph shall not apply to entities whose sales area is less than 500 m2, whose turnover is less than EUR 1 million or which are classified as consumer cooperatives under Article 4 ( 1 ( d ). that of the Co-operative Code. 8 - The provisions in the previous paragraphs are monitored and implemented by the Food and Economic Security Authority. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u374	We continue with the vote on paragraph 9. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: « 9 - For telecommunications services, the Government shall define reference prices incorporating a maximum profit margin which shall promote the full impact of the VAT reduction provided for in Article 2. the, and the reduction of service prices, establishing a regulated remuneration, at an appropriate financial level and compatible with the public interest, defined on the basis of technical and economic criteria, being prohibited the sale at a price higher than the reference price, without the presentation of reasonable justification. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u375	We shall then vote on paragraph 10. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: « 10 - The violation of the provisions in the previous paragraph shall be punished in the same manner as paragraph 6, being monitored by ANACOM. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u376	We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 70 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transitional application of VAT exemption to certain food products. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the IL and with abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u377	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u378	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Susana Amador asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u379	Mr President, it is in order to request the waiver of final wording and the deadlines for claim against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u380	I wonder if any parliamentary group opposes this request. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, the request is approved by consensus and the final wording and deadlines for complaints are waived.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u381	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u382	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u383	I am sorry, I would like to note that it was not possible to register in time, but that I was present in all the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u384	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u385	Mr President, it is for the same purpose because I have not been able to register on my own.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u386	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Ricardo Lima asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u387	It is precisely for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u388	Yeah, I remember there's a quorum check period... We shall now proceed to the reading of the dossier, so I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u389	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 593 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 594 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 595 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission and 596 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-06.u390	The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda is the urgent debate required by the PSD on : "Failure of the Social State : delays in the conduct of medical boards prevent citizens from accessing social support and benefits", followed by political declarations in the second point. At the third point, we will have the assessment of Petition No 58 / XV / 1. a ( Maria Isabel dos Santos Gomes et al.) — By replacing the purchasing power of all pensions, together with Resolution Projects Nos 478 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government increase disability and old age pensions in order to neutralise the effects of inflation, 513 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Interim increase in reforms and pensions in the year of 2023 and 576 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government apply the annual update of pensions to all pensioners and pensioners with pensions initiated from 1 January 2022, and with Law Projects No 696 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — The pension shall be updated for the year 2023, under Act No. 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December, and shall extend the application of the exceptional supplement to pensioners of special schemes and pensioners who are not resident in national territory and 703 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December on the Social Support Index, by updating disability and old age pensions under the general social security scheme according to inflation. I wish everyone a good Easter. Until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 22 minutes.]]
