ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we have quorum, so the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Our agenda today begins with the annual debate on Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation, but before that, we still have a small file period. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 659 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 553 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u3	Let us then start the annual debate on Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation, with the participation of the Government, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August ). Let us divide the period of intervention of openness by the two responsible ministers. This begins by opening the debate Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, João Gomes Cravinho. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The war Russia launched against Ukraine on 24 February 2022 brought again to Europe a large-scale conflict. We must not deceive ourselves as to the meaning of this, we live at a time when we have to demonstrate absolute determination and coldness in defending our interests and values, avoiding any unexpected reaction. As for the causes, there is no doubt: the Russian Federation invaded Ukraine because of an idea, which proved to be wrong, of President Putin about the Ukrainian fragility and moral weakness of the West. With this unjust, illegal and unprovoked aggression, Russia violated fundamental principles of international order: the United Nations Charter and the Budapest Memorandum on Security Guarantees of 1994, in which Russia recognized Ukraine's borders. The remarkable example of unity and courage of the Ukrainian people to face the invaders has since been accompanied by the European Union, the United States and other countries that have joined together and lucided against this invasion, unequivocally supporting Ukraine. Portugal remained active in the multilateral and bilateral framework, supporting the country's resistance effort — including through the provision of humanitarian assistance, financial support and military equipment — and imposing measures that condition Russia's political and military action capacity. The national geostrategic framework necessarily focuses on relations with NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union. The Russian invasion of Ukraine demonstrates well—and reminds us that we must continue to contribute more and more to NATO and we must participate closely and actively in the development of the European Union as a geostrategic actor. The transformative times we live require a new strategic position from the European Union. in this sense, it was extremely appropriate for the Council, in March 2022, to approve the Strategic compass for security and defence, a document which had an important impetus during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union and which encourages the creation of collaborative capacity development projects between Member States and with partners. in this context we live in it is essential that the European Union invests more and more in innovative capabilities and technologies, filling strategic gaps and reducing technological and industrial dependence. That is why the Strategic compass proposes that Member States take full advantage of permanent structured cooperation ( CEP ) and the European Defence Fund. The strategic compass aims to strengthen cooperation with partners, to address common threats and challenges, which are increasingly complex and diverse, from cyber-threatening terrorism, from misinformation to climate change, not forgetting traditional military threats, such as what Russia represents today. Portugal has been, and will continue to be, available to contribute to strengthening European strategic autonomy and reiterates the national commitment to the participation of Permanent Structural Cooperation in defence matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u5	You now have the floor to Mrs. Minister of National Defence, Helena Careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal's participation in the Permanent Structured Cooperation and European defence policy are strategic priorities of this Government. Our efforts in this area have experienced particular intensity in the current geopolitical context, with emphasis on the war in Ukraine. It would thus begin by stressing the military support that the Government has been providing to Ukraine under the Common Security and Defence Policy ( PCSD ) as well as bilaterally. This support reflects the values and principles we defend. We provide about 712 t of military material, including the three Leopard 2A6 combat cars. They are already in Germany and will reach Ukraine by the end of March. We are also engaged in the European Union's military assistance mission to Ukraine, where we participate through the training of Ukrainian soldiers. It is also important to mention our contributions to the European Peace Support Mechanism ( MEAP ), which have been the target of continuous reinforcements. Finally, support for Ukraine reflects how Portugal has assumed all its responsibilities as an ally and trusted partner. I also stress our contribution to the implementation of the Strategic compass, referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. in this context, we have advocated strengthening and flexibility in the missions and operations of the Common Security and Defence Policy, including strengthening the role of mission force commanders and better strategic communication. The importance of these missions and operations gains new emphasis on the 360 approach that we have printed on our external defence action. That is why we must pay particular attention to the threats to South, especially in Africa, and which also affect what is happening in East because of the war in Europe. in this complex and unpredictable geostrategic environment, the need for the European Union to develop defence capabilities is of renewed importance. It is in this context that acquisition and capacity development have gained prominence, and Portugal has been an active part of these processes. We recently participate in the joint acquisition programme promoted by the European Defence Agency and the European Commission, which will involve the acquisition of ammunition but also other capabilities for the immediate replacement of stocks. In terms of joint capacity development, our commitment has been reflected in the participation and leadership of more than 60 projects and programmes such as the PESCO or the European Defence Fund. Moreover, of the 60 ongoing PESCO projects, Portugal is present in more than half. These projects support the building of national and European military capabilities and the development of a more robust and competitive national technological and industrial base, with a better capacity to respond to the security needs we face. in this process, we aim to contribute directly to the mitigation of critical gaps in strategic capacities in all areas, identified in the recommendations of the Annual Review European Union Defence Coordination ( EU ). We also seek to ensure complementarity and interoperability with NATO. The third recently signed EU-NATO Joint Declaration points to that direction. In conclusion, strengthening the importance of returning this investment to ensure modern armed forces, ready and able to ensure the sovereignty and security of populations, as well as to generate value for the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u7	We are now moving on to the debate period. In order to intervene by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha begins by giving the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ministers, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : About a year ago, precisely on 22 April, in this plenary we held the debate on Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation by 2022, after hearing the courageous words of President Zelenskyy at the Solene Session. One year after the start of the brutal invasion of Ukraine by Russia, we continue to witness the worsening security and defence environment in Europe in dimensions that were neither known nor suspected since the last great conflict that struck our continent. Ukraine resists, in a struggle that represents not only its defence but also the defense of the international order, the European Union, freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, values on which the European project is built.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u10	It is therefore crucial for Portugal, which is in the interest of the European Union, to maintain our unity in our firm support for Ukraine, as we have done and will continue to do as far as possible, expressing our solidarity and bringing all sorts of aid. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this conflict has alerted us more than ever to the importance of the European Union's security and defence instruments and policies in the maintenance of peace and security in Europe and in the world. The most recent developments underline, without any doubt, the need to continue to improve and invest in the Common Security and Defence Policy and its instruments, both in its internal dimension and in multilateral cooperation with NATO, our key partner. Portugal's commitment to the construction of the European Identity of Security and Defence ( IESD ) and permanent structured cooperation is evident. We are an inalienable part of this process that allows not only to strengthen the military capacity of all but at the same time strengthen our own capabilities, the strategic autonomy of the European Union, as well as of our defence industries and also of the European Defence Technology and Industrial Base ( BTID ). The data provided by the national plan for the implementation of Permanent Structured Cooperation for 2023 are quite clear: from 2014 to 2021, Portugal recorded an increase in spending on defence of about 29, 2 % ; an increase that could reach 14 % this year, taking into account the investments provided for in the Military Programming Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u12	Finally, I would like to remind you that Portugal is one of the 25 founding Member States of Permanent Structured Cooperation and that it remains firm in its implementation since its adoption in 2017. of the 60 PESCO projects, as the Minister has just mentioned, Portugal participates in 34 — as a participating Member State integrates 14 projects, of which it leads three, and with the observer Member State status, participates in 20 projects. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what balance has the government taken since the implementation of the PESCO in 2017, to date, on the participation of Portugal in this instrument of the European Union, as well as in the European Defence Fund? What benefits have our Armed Forces, our defence industries and what contribution has Portugal made to the European Union as a community? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u13	Even in the time allocated to the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Rodrigues now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u14	Mr President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: The moment the European continent and the world are going through would be more than sufficient justification for the debate we are having here. The enormous political consensus on national defence, especially in its external aspect, is this demonstration, if we do not get the horrifying images that come to us every month from Bakhmut, Mariupol, and so many other parts of Ukraine. The European Union, which is the greatest project of peace and solidarity among the peoples that humanity has built up to this day, has realized, with the establishment of this permanent structured cooperation, that the peace built between the Member States that make up it neither ensured the security of the peoples who inhabit it. Portugal has since assumed itself as one of the founders of this new pillar of defence, anchored not only in the need to improve the state of its own Armed Forces, but also in the desire to meet its Atlantic vocation, with its commitments with the European project and with the defence of peace—not through the sacrifice of lives, not through the military domain or so little, of invasion, but through deterrence, if necessary, when the threat in question does not comply, does not strengthen itself with the order and international law and much less with respect for human rights. Portugal coordinates three projects in areas of undeniable relevance to national and European security and defence. And we are proud that the Armed Forces have found in the PESCO opportunities not only to contribute but also to distinguish themselves in such critical areas for the country. In the face of the threat posed to the East, whose modus operandi, even in time of peace—or, rather, of non-conflict— sought to destabilize democracies through digital terrorism, fulfils public authorities to ensure that our democracies, data, information and crucial systems continue to operate. I therefore ask the Minister whether, in fact, in 2025, we will be able to have results as expected — in this particular area of CAIH ( Cyber Academy and Innovation Hub ) — and how critical this project is to the field of national defence. In view of our historic maritime vocation, it is not enough only to have more and better ships, whether they are patrols or submarines, if they do not combine the aspects of artificial intelligence, autonomy and the many other technological advances that so many other industries have developed. This work, that of the underwater defense with less human assistance, is not science fiction, nor is it a secret project constructed from the corridors of the Pentagon, or it is known where. It is the best the Portuguese Armed Forces have to contribute and Portugal is precisely the one leading this race, on this common defence axis. These are just two of the three projects that we coordinate, among many others in which we participate as observers or with another status. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I had the opportunity to participate, within the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in an inter-parliamentary conference on security and defence. I got in doubt, I got myself clear. I am absolutely convinced that today no other matter unites both the European peoples and their representatives and our common defence. The European Union is ineligible in its support for Ukraine, at this critical moment, because we all know that in the streets of Bakhmut not only the security of the European continent, but the maintenance of all international order, the rejection of the right to conquer by force and respect for the self-determination of peoples. The success of this policy can even be a guarantee of the continuity of peace in the future. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that all of us in this House wish to defend democracies and our Republic. When confronted with a concrete threat to his Republic, before the elephants of Aníbal, of Carthago, it falls to the Republic of Rome, between the sword and the wall, to choose the sword. This young man, very young, Cipion, stood up for his Republic. If, in this war so bloody, so violent, what we call today, with so many millennia that passed away from Punica, there were guilts on the side, then there is no doubt that at least the conquest that followed preceded many guilt and much violence. However, what would not be forgiven is that, in this Chamber and in our Armed Forces, there was less than the courage the Romans had in defending their Republic. When others here, so close by, fight for this world order, for the defence of democracy and its republics, at least we have the courage to be prepared to defend our own and to help them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u15	The legend of Carthage at this hour? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, you have been granted a one-minute tolerance without Aníbal knowing! [[Laughing.]] We will spend time with the PSD, speaking for an intervention, Mr Carlos Eduardo Reis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u17	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for National Defence, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Six years ago, the Portuguese Government, already headed by António Costa, integrated the lot of founding countries of permanent structured cooperation. By then, in 2017, it was clear to the PSD that the founding status was of national interest. We could not leave the European Union — those who are our closest allies — waiting for Portugal. We feel the duty to enter the CEP to develop our interoperability and modernize our Armed Forces. It is an opportunity that we cannot lose and the PSD's appeal to the government today goes that way. Therefore, we do not take difficult situations within the Army, the Air Force or the Navy as mere episodes, when they were and are symptomatic of a deep crisis, already ancient, in national defense,... [[PSD applause.]] ... in view of everyone before 2022 and increasingly exposed in 2023. Let us not put the men and women serving Portugal in an insoluble dilemma between their duty and their safety, most of the time due to lack of investment. The reality is this, ladies and gentlemen. Members: today, the degradation of the State affects the sovereignty of the State. Six years ago, in the process of accession to the PESCO, the Social Democratic Party contributed directly to improving and complementing Portugal's integration into a global project initiative. What we were saying to date is what we are saying now: the Portuguese Armed Forces have and must have a holistic vocation, and never specialise in their valences, in a Community framework. Permanent Structured Cooperation should not represent a duplication of means with NATO, which we are also founders of, but rather should be a complementary initiative to affirm a genuine European Union and defence. As we have always said, any transfer of sovereignty represents, for us, a red line. The Government of the Socialist Party, then a minority, did not lack the sense of commitment that traditionally brings the two major parties of this House closer to matters of sovereignty. Therefore, the concerns of the PSD were duly received. That is the fact that it has not been forgotten and a compliment that is deserved. However, this register does not remove the responsibilities of those who rule. Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we note how what might seem to be a detail in 2017 is a central issue in 2023. What, six years ago, could seem like a little bit, became evidence in the days ahead. With the invasion of the Russian Federation into Ukrainian territory, the Atlantic Alliance focused on our continent. With the war in Ukraine, our membership in NATO and our transatlantic identity have recovered a centrality that has not been seen in Europe since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The concept of sovereignty, the undeniable importance of a State being sovereign in front of its neighbours and rivals, has gained unprecedented weight in this twenty-first century. Portugal got better prepared in this new paradigm for being part of the PESCO. A threat to the territorial integrity of a European State is at the same time a threat to the territorial integrity of Europe as a whole. [[PSD applause.]] Portugal got better into the PESCO because it does not forget the timeliness of its strategic values: autonomy with a multilateral spirit and atlanticism with European membership. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the point of the PSD is also that we should not forget the importance of these values in the way we look at our internal reality, of defence, since in order to truly live up to our international commitments, we must also be up to our Armed Forces in Portugal. To help Ukraine as we should, we need to help those who help Ukraine, in updating, modernizing, maintaining our military equipment or in improving, paying attention and dedicating themselves to the living condition of our military. There must therefore be a special duty of zeal of the State to those who swear to give life to the country. [[PSD applause.]] As the Prime Minister has already publicly acknowledged, after enlargement Europe will be a different Europe than we know today. Cohesion funds will be different from those of today and the budgetary requirements of our strategic position as well. As a responsible party, we will contribute with proposals — alternatives but plausible — to resize the state and adapt it to these new requirements. What we ask you to do, sirs. Members of the government, it is that this plan does not last another seven years, that do not delay to respond to the anxieties and needs of national defence the time that took to respond to the housing crisis, to the crisis in the National Health Service (NSS) emergencies or to the difficult situation that our teachers face in their careers. [[PSD applause.]] The crisis in the Armed Forces does not, for obvious reasons, have the strength of the street, the demonstration or the protest, but is therefore not less deserving of political initiative, especially because the crisis in the Armed Forces is as old as the others. It will ignore it, both inside and outside, and will have terrible consequences for the social fabric that composes them and irreversible consequences for what Portugal's position in the world represents. Mrs. Members of the Government, the European Defence Fund represents an opportunity of EUR 13 billion for our Armed Forces and their projects. It is the equivalent in Portugal to the annual budget of the National Health Service. Don't waste it and don't take any more time to realize it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u18	The next item is Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u19	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you — this is a rare case! — three ministers and a Secretary of State for coming to Parliament. I guess this will eventually have to do with the polls that came out this morning and with the fear that they have of arriving... [[CH's laughs.]] [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] But we hope that it will not happen what has happened, that is, the government will bring dry powder.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u21	Today's polls are enlightening and reveal that the Arrival has also had a position next to the national defense. Permanent Structured Cooperation is an issue that has not been taken seriously by the successive governments. The Minister of National Defence has just said something that could be manipulated, I admit, because when she says that we had a 360-o approach, I believe that they have actually had a 360-o performance, because they turn around and turn around, but do not leave the same place and stay with the same kind of speech. What the Minister has brought to us today is the quantification, in tonnes, of what we are sending to Ukraine. We have already sent 712 t, that is, we are sending a set of scraps there, since, in fact, what happens is that what our Air Force, our Navy and our Army have in their hands, to manage, is scraps behind scraps. Yesterday, certainly in preparation for what today's debate would be, the Council of Ministers issued a statement that is clear, saying that it will finally make the investment that was planned to ensure conservation, maintenance, security and modernization. You're gonna do everything. Now he's gonna do everything! What you've forgotten to say is that what you've announced you're going to do is no more than unactivate what you've been captivating all this time. In fact, the news is clear and they point out that the defense accounts were one of the greatest captivations, which did not come from 2015, nor from the time of the Rabbit Pass, nor from the time of the troika, but from your time, when they made the captivations through Mário Centeno. They've never made a bet on training. For example, we look at the means of the Air Force and we realize that the avionics — which is the technology, the computer that is inside the planes — has never even been updated. We have come to realize that of the C-130 package we have, only one is that it is operational, and that it only allows it to fly to Europe because it is a military plane. Otherwise, I wouldn't even be safe to fly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u22	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u23	Take it easy, Mr. Deputies. For F-16, of the 20 that are available, only 4 are operational. The careers continue to stand still and the Minister, including recently, said that the careers would be reviewed there by 2025. Do you know what this reminds you of? He recalls that Raul Sonado’s tale, which spoke of the 1908 war, because, with the lack of means we have in the Armed Forces, he almost gave to say that they will have to shoot, but that they must tie a guitar into the bullet, and then pull the bullet back, because there is no means to be able to meet military intervention needs. It's a shame what's happened. Finally, Mrs. Ministers and Mr Secretary of State, you know that there is a phrase that is often said among the elements of the Armed Forces, which says that « worse than having a weapon is to have an unarmed weapon », since it scares two: it scares one who has the weapon in his hand and scares the other, on the other hand, because he does not know whether the weapon has any ammunition. You must realize, once and for all, that this show-off they have been doing has embarrassed the Portuguese Armed Forces with our European partners, because of the lack of updating of means and the lack of respect for career and for the human resources that are at the service of the Armed Forces, in the defense of our nation. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u24	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On November 7, 2018, in response to a journalist's question, said the then Minister of Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, and I quote : « Portugal was clear when it joined the PESCO, for this is not an embryo of a European army. This is still our position and we are not aware of the constitution of any European army. Do not keep on seeking. ” He continued: "We have stressed today that we understand that this European intervention initiative will not lead to the European army and we want it to be clear that there is no such claim. And he added: "Whoever wants to invent a European army will have to make up money to pay for it. Do not keep on seeking. ” More than the answer to a journalist, this was the answer to Mr. Emmanuel Macron, precisely on the eve of defending the need for the creation of a European army. Almost four years have passed, many things have changed in the geopolitical and geostrategic landscape, not for better. The war of Ukraine was one of them. If the creation of a European army will be a good or a bad response to these amendments, or if it can be a good answer, it will be feasible, it is not the time to address it. There will always be some skepticism about the possibility of the constitution of an army in which the French will not expect to obey the Germans, the Germans the Frenchs and the Italians will not obey anyone. But we know this and it is relevant that Emmanuel Macron continues to defend this solution and to beat himself for it. And because that is the case, it is appropriate to ask the Minister — since a clear answer is relevant — to keep this government clearly defined by the then Minister of Defence John Gomes Cravinho from completely excluding the possibility of accepting the creation of a European army? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u26	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Permanent Structured Cooperation, as one of the defence mechanisms of the European Union, has taken on an essential role. With the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which has often been mentioned here today, the European Union's common foreign and security policy has taken on a stronger preponderance. The defence of the Union, the Member States and the citizens of Europe has become a concern for all of us in our day to day. We have seen developments in the European Union that demonstrate this transformation of European and defence policy. Denmark, which had so far not participated in the European Union's common foreign and security policy, due to its opt-out clause, announced a referendum last year and in July 2022 the Danish citizens decided by a large majority to join the European Union's common security policy. The United Kingdom also joined the Permanent Structured Cooperation project in November 2022. More recently, also mentioned today, it is important to mention the political agreement between the EU Member States for the acquisition of large-scale ammunition for Ukraine, for effective support for the people who fight for themselves and for all of us. In short, we are witnessing a strengthening of European cooperation in this area and Portugal and its Armed Forces are also called upon to play an increasingly important role. This is another reason for concern at the recent national events to which we are witnessing, with regard to the state of the few resources of our Armed Forces, many of them inoperative. In addition to the national investment which is urgently needed and which is increasingly supported by parties, the development of permanent structured cooperation, particularly with third countries, is also of great importance in the urgent follow-up to the European Parliament's recommendation of June 2022 on foreign security and defence policy, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Yesterday, the UN ( United Nations ), after an investigation, declared that the Russian authorities committed war crimes in Ukraine. The Liberal Initiative is in favour of deepening cooperation in the area of defence through the European Union, while of course not overlooking Portugal's commitments to NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). Now, more than ever, all Member States cooperating are synonymous with fighting for freedom and democracy in Europe. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u28	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This debate on Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation raises two questions to us. The first is the fact that permanent structured cooperation is assumed as a strengthened legal instrument for cooperation, with the aim of contributing to a comprehensive European Union strategy for foreign and security policy. With regard to the expression « enhanced cooperation », this is an euphemism, since what we are really talking about is the process of deepening the federalist process of European integration, which calls into question the central role of national defence as an essential function of guaranteeing the sovereignty of the State, which the Government in its programme affirms to recognize but then, in practice, to deliver in the hands of others. in this specific case, the CFP considers that Portugal should not allow others, even as allies, to replace the exercise of constitutionally consecrated sovereignty rights. With regard to the strategy, the reality is that, by the will of the main Member States of the European Union, defence policies have been put at the service of the United States, as noted by the confrontation between the so-called 'West' and the Russian Federation, in which the United States assumes themselves as the voice of command, in a neocolonial position, before a European Union without its own strategy or active voice, which has hypothesized the possibility of implementing this strategy itself, if it has ever been in the thinking of its leaders. The second question, Mrs. Minister, has to do with projects within the framework of permanent structured cooperation. On the one hand, military re-equipment policies must respond to national needs and should not be undermined to prevent the failure of this response capacity. Priority should not be given to meeting the external commitment requirements of our Armed Forces, in particular those resulting from a continuing policy of subordination to structures such as Permanent Structured Cooperation. On the other hand, these projects do not contribute to, as the Government Programme stresses, and I quote, « continuing to value and recognize the centrality of people for the construction of the Armed Forces of the future,, deignifying the military condition, deepening the professional appreciation of their military and promoting their training ». That is what we see, particularly in two recent situations and with public impact. The first, a few weeks ago, during a military exercise in Beja, with extremely cold and unconditional accommodation, without a heating system running, which led to the military passing the word, recommending that they carry sacks and blankets, as well as towels of bath and face, considering that the unit had no capacity to provide them. For these days, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we had the case of the Mondego ship, where in addition to the various failures in one of the two engines, one of the three generators would also have been detected a water entry through the refrigeration pump of the machine space, among other deficiencies and difficulties. But they can also go to New Sales and see how the infrastructures are. Unfortunately, these are not isolated situations, they are the only ones with the most public and media expression.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u31	Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, we cannot assume ourselves as producers of international security and give what we do not, when we have seen for many years continued degradation of the human and material resources of our Armed Forces. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u32	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Ministers : The Left Block was against Permanent Structured Cooperation because it considered it a risk of creating a European army or of specializing in the Armed Forces, a risk that European armies would turn into a military outsourcing of Germany or France. Also because we considered this path to militarizing European problems, such as refugee crises, and because we considered that the greatest military expenditure that this meant did not represent an alternative to NATO and the commitments already made with NATO. The defenders of European structured cooperation at the time said that this enhanced cooperation meant an increase in autonomy in European defence and security. What we are asking is where that autonomy remained and where that autonomy is in European defence and security, when there is a war on European territory. Because the result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine has exposed what has never happened to propaganda. There is no common European security policy currently autonomous of the NATO strategy. Europe abstained from mediating the war in Ukraine, abdicated even its own position on the invasion of Ukraine and therefore abdicated the possibility of a European collective security project, autonomous of the interests of the United States. NATO's strengthening and European submission to NATO are the result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and is, in fact, the programme that has always been, the enhanced cooperation programme. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we believe that NATO is not an ally that is recommended. It is an alliance which has already been noted, when it has put European countries that have so far been neutral to accept Turkey's dictates and to abandon values that were considered to be the supposed Western values, solidarity and democracy, to accept deportation and repression of Kurdish refugees as a condition of entry into NATO. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that peace is not a juice of surrender. But defending Ukraine's right of armed resistance — which it has — against Russian imperialism — is different from calling for permanent war. That is the agenda of those who always wanted Europe under NATO's leg. It is irresponsibility and hypocrisy to use Ukraine's defense as an alibi for a path of global destruction. European structured cooperation has had this programme and is the confirmation of this programme: European submission to NATO interests. That's what we refuse. Secondly, let me give you a final note. Enhanced cooperation has also not prevented the de-investment in the Armed Forces, as seen. With regard to what happened in the World, I read carefully the description of that ship and I ask you whether this description is true and I ask you whether, frankly, Mrs. Minister of Defense would board a ship under those conditions. I am sure of one thing: those 13 sailors are not cowards; they are probably brave. And courage is not suppressed, with courage we can only have solidarity and therefore I wanted to leave my solidarity here with 13 sailors who refused to embark because they considered that they had no security conditions to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u34	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: After one year of mission and support for Ukraine, particularly due to the Russian invasion, it is clear that Permanent Structured Cooperation has gained another dimension and assumes a differentiating role. And in this sense both the European Union and its institutions have made an investment which has already increased from EUR 54 billion and which leads to the fact that, necessarily, there is a narrowing of this role or, therefore, we cannot leave to other countries, namely the United States or only NATO, which today has to be a necessarily European role. But, as we know, there are also countries that are not part of this body, which can submit applications to participate in the various permanent structured cooperation projects and these same accessions are under way, as happened in the case of the United States of America, Canada, Norway, which entered the project on military mobility led by the Netherlands in 2021. Therefore, we would like to ask the Minister whether the Permanent Structured Cooperation has received some request from Ukraine in this area and whether or not they are available to invite this country to participate in some of the projects in which Portugal is inserted. In addition, we would also like to know that other applications are being evaluated, with which eyes Portugal sees its integration and to what extent it may or may not conflict with the projects submitted by Portugal. On the other hand, there is a dimension that is rarely spoken of in the context of these issues, which is the environmental impact that military action and war is having, either in the loss of biodiversity or in the devastation of marine areas and also in terrestrial areas. What is the cooperation doing — if this, in fact, is also being addressed — to mitigate these effects and impacts?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u36	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State, Minister, Ministers : It is already the second year in which we have this debate with a war situation on the European continent. And the change of paradigm in the situation in the security field on the European continent does not yet respond to a paradigm shift in the situation of the European Union's common security policy. A few days after the invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland, in fact, innovatively faced with what had been their traditional position on European security policy, called for the activation of Article 42. Article 5, paragraph 7 of the Treaty on European Union, which corresponds in terms of the European Union. the Treaty of the North Atlantic, the NATO Treaty. In fact, it is even strengthened because it gives explicit obligations of solidarity to the Member States. The European Council did not address this debate, even if it did not take that position which was required by Sweden and Finland and it was only after these countries requested entry into NATO. Now, it happens that this entry is now blocked, not only by Turkey, but also by Hungary. And it happens that NATO, although reinforced by the invasion—and that was one of Mr Putin's major strategic mistakes—is still a fragile organization. Just change the renter of the White House and Europe loses the referee you have in NATO. Europe must therefore have three conditions on its own. The first is whether the European Council is at least available to debate Article 42. , paragraph 7, that Swedish and Finnish asked for more than one year ago. The second condition is to know how Portugal is, in view of this policy of cooperation in relation to its exclusive economic zone, because it does not help to say that Portugal would be better without such a policy. If we did not spend 2 % on defence, with the size of our exclusive economic zone we would have to spend 5 % or 6 % or what the Greeks and Turks spend, with a permanent tension situation in their territorial waters. Ours are much bigger. Nor does it help to say that if Europe is too infected with the United States, how well it would have been without European defence policy, because there would be more infected with the United States. With regard to the third condition — and with this end — if the European Union is endowed with means that are traditionally associated with States, as a defence policy, it is essential that it also has the means of democratic scrutiny, which it does not have at this time to follow this policy. We can say very nice words about the fight for democracy, for the defence of democracy, but democracy does not stop practicing democracy, and debates like this are too scarce for everything we need to do in terms of European policy. The European Parliament and the Assembly of the Republic must be involved in much more permanent debates on the defence situation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u38	We are now moving to the closing stage of this debate. First of all, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. João Gomes Cravinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank you for the questions you have raised on this subject. The strong support of this House for the Portuguese participation in permanent structured cooperation is clearly confirmed, and this, in turn, represents the democratic will to participate in the construction of a Europe capable of asserting its values and interests in an increasingly contested world, in which tensions within the contemporary international framework may well be the predominant feature of our times. in this context, it is essential the Portuguese participation in the main processes of construction and consolidation of European strategic autonomy. Complementarity between the European Union and NATO is one of the essential principles of this process. Another essential principle, established by the Assembly of the Republic, which has been unequivocally respected by the Government, is that permanent structured cooperation should not be a precursor to a single European army. We are continuing on that very path. The strengthening of joint capacities of the Member States of the European Union is, of course, an important part of the process of consolidating European strategic autonomy. In short, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initial purposes of Permanent Structured Cooperation are fully justified and our participation is an important contribution to European collective efforts, which in turn represent a significant contribution to Portugal's strategic position. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u40	You now have the floor to Mrs. Minister of National Defence, Helena Careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Thank you very much for your questions, which, with my notes, I will try to answer. I believe that there are two types of concerns that have been expressed: some have to do with the balance sheet that we can make of our participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation and others with the issue of investment in defense of what we are doing. Portugal has actively supported, as it has said and we know, this process of building and affirming European defence, in particular through participation in these PESCO projects ( Permanent Structured Cooperation ), and the commitments we make in this area have everything to do with the investment we make in defence. I allowed myself to show and respond with results, and the first is this, which is a graph that shows the growth of investment in defense. The speaker showed the chart she mentioned. It's a line, just to have the notion of what's going on. We approved one of the largest ever growth in the national defence budget this year, and yesterday at the Council of Ministers we adopted a bill that will be discussed in this Parliament on the Military Programming Act, which I will have the opportunity to debate, but which has the most significant value of always, of 5570 million euros, which represents a growth of 17.5% in relation to the law in force. And the respective picture is also elucidating the meaning of this bet. The speaker showed the chart she mentioned. I would also point out that more than 40 % of a substantive part is devoted to maintaining, supporting and modernising means. That is to say, we are actually responding to efforts to recover from the deficits, doubling the money in maintenance, replacing the war reserves. This is about budget matters. Now, Mr President, the Military Programming Act has not, nor has it ever been, captivated. This also adds armed forces projects funded by the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The national plan for the implementation of the PESCO also includes a commitment made at the NATO summit in Madrid in anticipation of the target of 1, 66 % of GDP (gross domestic product) at defence expenditure for this year. Regarding the issue of the projects and the balance sheet that we make of our participation in European defence in this area, Portugal actively participates, as it has been said, in 14 projects, leading three, one of them already mentioned, the CAIH ( Cyber Academy and Innovation Hub ), a project that has to do with the development of our cyberdefense capabilities, cybersecurity, and which is expected to be one of the 12 projects to achieve concrete results by 2025, implementing the strategy that we have also recently adopted for cyberdefense. We also have the MUSAS ( Maritime Unmanned Anti-Submarine System ), which is a project related to an unmanned sea shipping system, which is in full running year, with the presentation of a prototype, and also the AMIDA-UT ( Automated Modeling, Identification and Damage Assessment of UrbanTerrain ), an automated modeling project, identification and evaluation of damage from urban terrain, which should be completed in 2025. We accompany 20 other projects, such as observers, which would highlight the European patrol corveta and the European medical command. This participation has followed clear guidelines. Joint and collaborative capacity-building projects and programmes in which we participate within the framework of the PESCO, but also the European Defence Fund, the European Defence Agency and NATO, cover all operational areas and focus on areas strategically relevant to national and European interests, including maritime security, cyber area, space and military mobility. This military mobility project reflects our support for the participation of third countries, including weight allies like the United States, as well as the importance of greater complementarity with NATO. We have also managed to establish synergies between some of these projects, CAIH and ACTING (Advanced European platform and network of Cybersecurity training and exercises centres), which is an advanced European platform and network of cybersecurity training and training centres, MUSAS and CINAV (Naval Research Centre ), a consortium that aims to create an autonomous, innovative and collaborative European environment in the network for anti-submarine war. These synergies enable us to capitalize on resources at our disposal and multiply results, promoting interoperability between the armed forces of the Member States. We seek to ensure that the projects in which we participate compete for key areas identified in the CARD ( Coordinated Annual Review on Defence ) reports for the European Union's capacity development plan as well as for the strategic autonomy of the European Union. However, we seek above all to ensure that these are projects that contribute to the modernization of national defence and the Portuguese Armed Forces. At the same time, we are working to involve our defence industry in European value chains, emphasizing complementarity and competitiveness. Regarding the new FISHEWORK wave, the fifth wave, I recently approved Portuguese participation in eight projects, three as an active participant and five as an observer status. Therefore, with this information, I would end by stressing the importance of this participation in the training of the Portuguese Armed Forces, in the development of our technological and industrial defence base and also in interoperability with our allies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u42	We are thus finishing the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, which consists in the general assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 303 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government recognise Russia as a « sponsor of international terrorism », 407 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of an International Special Court for Crimes Committed in the Ukraine War, 467 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government support the process of setting up a special criminal court to investigate and judge the war crimes perpetrated by Russia in the invasion of Ukraine, 468 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government condemn Russia's ecocide in Ukraine and support international initiatives to ensure the repair of environmental destruction and 471 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Supports and welcomes the decision of the President of the Republic of the Great Collar of the Order of Freedom to the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy. To present the draft resolution of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project we propose today, here, goes in the direction of Portugal taking itself in a coherent manner. In February last year, Russia launched a brutal invasion of Ukraine's superannuation state. Since then, thousands have been killed, many others tortured, millions displaced, a broken Europe, in search of the appropriate answer. In the midst of all this, Russia continues to go unpunished, in many of its aspects, and succeeds even new economic alliances, which have brought wealth to many of its oligarchs and to many of its citizens. Mr. President and Mr. On 23 November 2022, the European Parliament adopted a resolution determining Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. On 13 October 2022, the Council of Europe adopted a decision determining Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. It was followed by the Parliament of Lithuania, the Parliament of Latvia, the Parliament of Estonia, the Senate of Poland and many other European States are currently in preparation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Brutality, systematic violation of human rights, violation of the rules of the Geneva Convention, violation of the basic rules of international law, in matters of war, should leave us no doubt. I would like to remind this Parliament that since the beginning of Russia's military invasion of Ukraine, 1148 children — I repeat, 1148 children — have been killed or injured, with many women under sexual and other torture. Ladies and gentlemen, Russia is no longer a state of international law; Russia is a terrorist state, and that is what we have to say. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Along with the systematic violation of human rights, the Russian Government, led by Vladimir Putin, carried out ground operations, not using the regular army, but armed terrorist groups. The Wagner Group, the Kadyrov Regiment, the Donbass and Lansky militias are examples of a state that sponsors terrorism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u45	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party and the PSD, in the European Parliament, the PSD voted in favour of the resolution that determines Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. In the European Parliament, the Socialist Party voted in favour of the resolution that determines the Russian State as a sponsor of terrorism. If they have a different vote within their doors today than they have in Europe, they will show the zigzag in which the centre of Portuguese political life is going. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u46	I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr André Ventura, Mr. Ex. has no request for clarification, so we immediately proceed to the presentation of the PSD Parliamentary Group's initiative, draft resolution No 407 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost all of us here today vividly remember November 9, 1989, the day the Berlin Wall fell and the hope of a new world was born. A new world, without constant anxiety and fear that a conflict between superpowers would result in the mutually assured destruction of humanity. A new, free and democratic world, where the ruins of the Soviet Empire would give birth to the vicious fruits of democracy, freedom and the rule of law. A new world in which globalization would be the engine of open, tolerant and multicultural societies, where the spectra of authoritarianisms and nationalism of the 20th century could never again spread their horrors. [[PSD applause.]] But this world we know has come to an end. Where globalization was expected to create more free, open and tolerant societies, today we see the rotten root of authoritarianism and tyranny. In particular in Russia, which, under Putin's autocratic regime, embarked on a project to end our world as we have known him since the end of the Cold War. The former republics of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe, independent today, fear their freedom and sovereignty. In the Balkans, Kremlin uses its prosecutors to destabilize the countries of the region; the Caucasus is increasingly at risk of being a Russian satellite; the Baltic has become a crucial stage for European security equations. The war in Ukraine is the last, but most expressive, manifestation that Russia does not see itself in a world based on fundamental standards that protect the sovereign equality of States, allow us to build peace through international cooperation and guarantee the dignity of all peoples. [[PSD applause.]] Russia's actions are immoral and deserve our firmest ethical and political condemnation, but we cannot forget that Russia's actions are also illegal. Since the annexation of Crimea, by force, to the illegal recognition of the separatist republics of Donbas, through the invasion of Ukraine, in violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, the acts of the Russian Federation touch the hard core of the fundamental principles underpinning contemporary international law. [[PSD applause.]] There is also increasing evidence that Russia has committed war crimes, or even possibly crimes against humanity. An international investigation will determine the nature of the crimes and their perpetrators, but we do not forget the images and descriptions of the Bucha massacre, where 458 dead civilians were found, many of them lying on the streets; we remember - every day of Irpin, where common valleys were found with hundreds of civilian bodies, including children, women and elderly; equally shocking was all that we saw in the siege of Mariupol, where, for two months, three weeks and two days, a whole community was trickled; in the Izium forest common valleys were discovered with bodies of 17 Ukrainian soldiers and at least another 443 improvised graves, in its majority of civilians. All these acts correspond to the loud violations of the Geneva Conventions and their Additional Protocols, constituting war crimes of such gravity that they cannot simply be ignored. In the face of this barbarity, States all over the world must join not only in the political condemnation and absolute moral rejection of these acts, but also in reaffirming a serious commitment to the international legal order and the sacred principle that international crimes cannot go unpunished. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] It was in this sense that we presented a draft resolution in support of the establishment of a special international tribunal to judge all the crimes committed in the war of Ukraine. The creation of special international courts is not unprecedented. It happened, for example, after World War II, with the courts of Nuremberg and Tokyo, and later with the courts for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. Of course, after the establishment of a permanent court, such as the ICT ( International Criminal Court ), it would be desirable that the establishment of ad hoc courts should no longer be necessary, but it may be justified by the still existing limitations to the jurisdiction of this court, as is the case in the present case, especially with regard to the crime of aggression. Of course, the jurisdiction of this courtad hoc should be complementary to the jurisdiction of the ICC. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we can never build a fair world based on human law and decency, but we can never stop fighting for it. As Leonard Cohen's music says, there's a crack in everything and it's for her that the light can come in. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u48	Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá, you have a request for clarification from Mr André Ventura, to whom I shall immediately address it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u49	Mr President, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá, I also welcome him for his speech, which is quite clear and unequivocal about Russia's condemnation. Today we know that one of the actors, supported by the Russian State, the Wagner Group, is awarding a reward of EUR 14 million by the head of the Italian Defence Minister. It is with this kind of people that we are dealing with: bandits, truly gangsters at the level of the Italian mafia. So I'd like to ask you if you're coming to follow the PSD position... [[On the contrary!]] [[On the contrary!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u50	Old habits!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u51	I would like to ask you whether the PSD will support the position of the Enough to determine Russia as a sponsor of terrorism. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u52	The request for clarification is made and, in reply, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u53	Mr President, thank you for your question. Well, I didn't mean that because my colleague Ricardo Sousa is still going to talk and I didn't want to waste his content or time. We didn't close the door to that, but it can't be done that way. It must be done in a great consensus, from the outset with our allies, but also with the other countries, and there is still no consensus on this matter, as you know. What there is consensus, increasingly—and that is why we support it—is the establishment of an international criminal court, in this regard, to investigate, judge and punish crimes committed in the war of Ukraine. We remain in this consensus, for now, precisely to value it and because this is the way that can be made. We didn't close the door to anything in the future, but this has to be done as it should be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u55	... negotiating with allies, a legal framework that does not yet exist and with a clear text. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u56	In practice, the PSD closed the door!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u57	To present Resolution Projects Nos 467, 468 and 471 / XV / 1. a, from the NAP, now has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite all the sanctions that have been imposed and despite international pressure, Putin and his regime continue to violently sweep the Ukrainian territory and leave behind a trail of death, injury and destruction of that country as we would never see again. Not in Europe, not in the 21st century. From February 2022 to March 12, the United Nations has already registered more than 21,000 victims, including more than 8,000 dead. The figures may, however, be even greater, since it is not always possible to access data, particularly data from places where intense hostilities have occurred, such as Mariupol or Popasna, where, unfortunately, there are allegations of numerous low civilians who do not escape children, women and elderly people, victims of the most infamous and unimaginable human rights violations, where there are sexual abuse, summary executions, physical violence, kidnapping, deportation, threats of violence, interruption of basic services, cuts in communication and looting of food, clothing and other essential goods. This is not a scenario we can ignore. The relentless passage of the pro-Putin Russian forces has also left a disaster of destruction in other dimensions, particularly in the environment, which constitutes a real ecocidal. According to data from the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, by the end of 2022, due to this invasion more than 180 000 m2 of soils are contaminated by the weaponry used ; more than 680 000 tonnes of petroleum derivatives were burned during the bombings ; and more than 23 000 ha of forest were burned. from the point of view of biodiversity, more than 6 million domestic animals were killed, more than 50 000 dolphins from the Black Sea — the equivalent of 20 % of the dolphin population in this region — and an incalculable number of wild animals. In addition to an attack on human rights, we are facing a real environmental attack and all these acts we have witnessed throughout this year must deserve our repudiation and be recognized as genocides, war crimes, serious violations of international humanitarian law and a true eco-cidal. That is why the NAP is proposing today the establishment of a special international criminal court to judge these types of crimes, so that they are somehow investigated and convicted.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u59	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u60	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. Like a year ago, the NAP is today as much or more supportive of the struggle of the Ukrainian people for a sovereign, independent, free and European Ukraine, with the right to self-determination. Also because Ukraine fights for the freedom and self-determination of a people, we must recognize this same gesture through the NAP's proposal to grant the Great Colar of the Order of Freedom to the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, symbol of the courage of a people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u61	We shall now turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups which have not put forward initiatives on this subject. We shall begin with the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group and have the floor of Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : More than one year has passed since the beginning of the war in Ukraine and the number of crimes against humanity has not yet grown. Among so many crimes, we recall the attack on theatre in Mariupol, it does exactly one year today, with hundreds of dead, or at Kramatorsk station, both having as Ukrainian civilian targets. Let us also remember the brutal massacre done in Bucha, which is today a symbol of the various localities massacred by Russian forces, having been a prelude to what would be to come. The accounting of these crimes is already a colossal task that will require enormous work on the part of multilateral institutions. We therefore subscribe to and will vote in favour of all the proposals for the clearance and trial of the crimes committed in the framework of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u64	In addition to what has already been stated in the report of the independent United Nations commission of inquiry, which was made public yesterday, we have evidence not only of torture, sexual abuse and indiscriminate killing of civilians, but also of mass deportations, in particular of children, of common fences and of the intentional and targeted massacre of entire populations in Ukraine. These are facts that only parallel on the blackest pages of history, in some of the most terrorist states in history. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have no doubt that Russia is a State that uses terrorist practices for its own purposes. It is no novelty for anyone that the Kadyrov regiment or Wagner group are organizations willing to commit war crimes and crimes against humanity. They do so with sadism and terrorist spirit against local populations. We also know that they did not change the general incompetence pattern of the Russian army, serving as free people's wagons. They are, in essence, terrorist organizations whose international influence claws must be cut off and we therefore agree that they should be declared as terrorist organizations. In order for this to have practical effects, it must be done within the European Union, as the European Union must decide to classify Russia as a State supporting terrorism, since it is in this legal regime that Portugal and the other Member States of the Union work when it comes to the classification of States or organizations as terrorists. Despite this nuance, we will enable the basic proposal of this agenda to agree with its substance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stated and we will continue to do so: the tyrants cannot win, Putin will not win. Ukraine fights heroically, for itself and also for all of us, not only for those who are in their active lives, like the 230 we are here, but especially for future generations, such as those young people who are up there, in the galleries. Freedom, always! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u65	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who occupy their seats and who do not hold group meetings within the plenary because this causes some noise and disturbs the speakers. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The range of projects under discussion is varied and I would, of course, begin with the project that gave rise to this debate, the project of the Arrival. As we have done in the European Parliament, we shall vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u67	Ah! Long live competition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u68	What is proposed here, i.e. to classify Russia as a terrorist State, means to annihilate any future possibility of diplomatic negotiations in the framework of the Russian war of aggression to Ukraine, either for agreements relating to the transport of cereals, whether they are negotiations for peace or humanitarian assistance, or of any other kind. Therefore, it is not enough to condemn and oppose Putin, it is necessary to find exits to the situation before which we are placed. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] We recall that we urgently need a peace process and that cannot be achieved by using instruments that prevent any possibility of negotiations to cease fire, bilateral or multilateral negotiations resulting therefrom. The arrival knows perfectly well that its project does not bring any possibility of peace, but only perpetuates a climate of escalation of tension, and therefore we do not follow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u69	Now, the war is over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u70	On proposals leading to the idea of international courts, which is the most relevant part of this debate, we believe that the PSD proposal is appropriate,... [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] ... as it puts all war crimes in the sphere of investigation—and I underline the expression «all», which is not the same used in the NAP project. I would like to recall a relevant part of a peace statement for Ukraine, which was signed in February this year by some world leaders, such as Jeremy Corbyn, Jean-Luc Mélenchon and also here in Portugal, Catarina Martins. [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u71	What were we talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u72	I shall quote: "We call for diplomatic efforts to be redoubled to establish a cease-fire and negotiations with a view to a peaceful and lasting solution, in line with the positions of the Secretary-General of the United Nations [... ] Secondly, a joint response of humanitarian aid and just reconstruction of Ukraine must be joint, which does not deepen relations of dependence and the policy of blocs. Thirdly, we support independent initiatives...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u73	A party that has terrorists on its lists is not to expect anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u74	... to require justice and accountability for all war crimes committed in the framework of the war in Ukraine, dealing with the crime of aggression within international mechanisms with the support of the United Nations, such as the International Criminal Court and other hybrid courts established for this purpose. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is, for us, the line that must be defended, in respect of the Charter of Nations, by the law of peoples and by peace. War crimes, yes, must be judged, all of them, and peace defence processes must, yes, be driven, especially when the arms race reaches the persistent levels of irrationality to which we are watching. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u75	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u76	You have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP condemns criminal acts, including in the war scenario, which have occurred or occurred in Ukraine, or in Yugoslavia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u78	Yugoslavia no longer exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u79	...in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria or other countries. The PCP condemns criminal acts in Ukraine, which have been committed in territory controlled by Ukrainian armed forces or Russian armed forces, which have been committed after the escalation of the conflict in 2022, or after the coup d'état in February 2014, including by fascist groups in Odessa, on 2 May 2014, or by Nazi carrizo battalions on the population of Donbass. The existence of proven examples in which situations presented as true have been confirmed false and based on manipulation operations requires the essential, thorough and rigorous clearance of worrying allegations of war crimes, assured by effectively independent entities, determined by the actual assessment of the facts and not by pre-determined judgments or objectives that do not aim or contribute to the realization of the truth. In addition to reproducing similar initiatives promoted by entities that have stressed their commitment to promoting and exacerbating the conflict in Ukraine, the proposals put forward aim first to hinder or even prevent the necessary dialogue with a view to the political resolution of the conflict and, at the same time, encourage the continuation of Russia's policy of confrontation, siege and isolation, thereby hindering possible understanding between the parties, the dismantling and normalization of relations at the international level, the defence and promotion of peace, cooperation and disarmament, particularly in Europe — initiatives that in addition to clearing the deep responsibilities and involvement of the United States of America, NATO and the European Union, among other actors, in the conflict of Ukraine and its dramatic consequences. We reaffirm, once again: our solidarity is with the people and with all the victims of war,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u81	... and not stop with a xenophobic, bellicist and antidemocratic power, surrounded and supported by fascist and Nazi chariscist forces. Aware of the serious dangers posed by the escalation of the conflict to the Ukrainian and Russian peoples, to all the peoples of Europe and the world, the CFP Parliamentary Group rejects the measures and initiatives aimed at prolonging and exacerbating them. The CFP Parliamentary Group reaffirms that it is urgent for the United States of America, NATO and the European Union to stop instigating and fueling war in Ukraine and to open negotiations with other stakeholders, including the Russian Federation, in order to achieve a political solution, the response to the problems of collective security and disarmament in Europe and the fulfilment of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] It is necessary to defend dialogue with a view to peace, looking at the causes of the conflict, and not instigating and feeding an escalation of unpredictable consequences. People want and need cooperation and peace, not more initiatives that incite confrontation and war. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u82	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Francisco César now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think this is another important moment for this Parliament to clearly condemn a war of aggression from one country to another; an illegal war, in the light of international law, and a war which, like all wars, is having devastating impacts on its population. The Socialist Party will continue to take advantage of all the times it has to condemn the serious crimes being committed in Ukraine. We condemn the murders, the summary executions and massacres of civilians; we condemn the indiscriminate attacks on residential areas, schools, hospitals; we condemn torture and rape; we vehemently condemn the mass displacements of civilians and children by the State and the Russian Federation; we condemn all those who have made victims in this war; we also condemn — no less important than human lives — the consequences that we are having at the environmental level. I believe that all of us in this Parliament are firm in condemning the war — almost all of us! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u84	It's better that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u85	...and his crimes against the Ukrainian people. I regret the statements made by our fellow Members of the Portuguese Communist Party, who, in their speech, spoke more often of NATO, the United States, the European Union, as if they were responsible for the aggression than in the conviction of a country which has illegally invaded another country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But these allegations of aggression cannot go blank. This condemnation by the State and the Russian Federation must be done in the same way that we must do everything to provide greater aid to the Ukrainian population. And that is what Portugal has done, from a military point of view, from a humanitarian point of view, from a financial point of view and from a political and diplomatic point of view. But all that we have done, of condemnation and support for the Ukrainian State, cannot lead to an extreme position that can close doors that are important for dialogue. Therefore, the Socialist Party does not follow the arrival of the Russian declaration as a sponsor of terrorism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u86	So why did they vote in favour of the European Parliament? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u87	Speak in two voices!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u88	And we don't follow for two orders of reasons. The first is because we believe in multilateralism and these decisions should not be taken alone by Portugal, but within the framework of international organisations in which they participate, both within NATO and within the framework of the European Union. This is the diplomatic tradition of Portugal and therefore we must continue to apply the measures that are being drawn up within the international organisations we are part of. The second, as I have told you, is that there are currently negotiations and talks with the Russian Federation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u89	They voted in favour of the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u90	... be at the level of negotiation for the release of cereals from the European Union, be at the level of talks so that this war will not have a bigger escalation than it has already had. The dialog door can never be closed. Moreover, I remember that even the United States, which has several countries on its list of States sponsoring terrorism, has never included the Russian Federation as a sponsor of terrorism. So today we have reports of crimes of murder, crimes against humanity, war crimes, crimes of aggression and we know that this is a great concern for all and that we must do everything to ensure that these crimes are properly judged, so that these allegations do not go blank and impunity in this context does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u91	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u92	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, the Socialist Party accompanies the need to create and use all available international mechanisms, either through the International Criminal Court or through other institutions created directly to judge crimes committed in Ukraine...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u93	It's the zigzag!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u94	... and that they are outside the scope of the International Criminal Court, so that these crimes are judged and also that there may be war reparations to Ukraine for the crimes they are being committed and for the devastation to which they are being subjected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u95	They're zigzags!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u96	Mr. Francisco César has spent his time, but he has a request for clarification from Mr. Pedro Pinto, to whom I ask if that request remains.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u97	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u98	I therefore give you the floor immediately, Mr Pedro Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u99	Mr President, Mr Francisco César, I saw that you have spent your time on purpose, not to answer, but this is a habit that the Socialist Party already has.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u100	Give me time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u101	Mr President, we do not need beautiful words! Ukrainians don't need beautiful words. When it comes to condemning Russia as a terrorist state, what are you doing? In the European Parliament they have done something, they have voted in a way, but now in Portugal they will vote in another way. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Portuguese need to know that! The Portuguese need to know that there will be European elections next year and that there are two socialist parties. There is the Socialist Party that presents itself to the elections in Portugal and there is another one, speaking to another voice, in another tone—a fact, as it used to do António Costa, which here in Portugal does not condemn immigration, but then goes to the European Parliament and the immigration policy it defends is completely different. There are two socialist parties, there are two voices of the Socialist Party, one here and the other in the European Parliament, and that is regrettable! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS Francisco César and Ch Pedro Pinto's counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u102	So let us turn to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u103	Mr. President, in Russia it is a crime, with up to 14 years of imprisonment, to even designate war as war, which gives reason to that old adage which says that the first victim of war is the truth. Putin wants to hide that his war is a war and therefore opens precisely the door to which he is designated as a « terrorist state », because, if it is not a war, then what does the Russian Federation do in Ukraine, using groups that are clearly terrorists and which we must designate as such the Wagner Group, the “Kadirovita” militia and even the militias of the DNR ( People's Republic of Donetsk ) and the LNR ( People's Republic of Lugansk )? What we have to do is have a European legal framework, as the European Parliament has asked, and the resolution that is going to vote here today has nothing to do with the resolution that has been voted on in the European Parliament. But we're going there now, because there's a surprise at the end, which will be interesting to the proposer. [[CH protests.]] We'll see. Have a little patience. We must have a European legal framework to designate States as 'terrorist sponsors', which we do not have, and we must take seriously the resolutions of this House itself. The first of this mandate was the proposal of the Free to investigate the war crimes of the Russian Federation. Repeat: War crimes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u104	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u105	Terrorism crimes have a chain of command that is more difficult to prove than war crimes. I shall conclude with this, Mr President, because I promised at the outset.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u106	Then come the surprise, then, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u107	When we heard the Members of the European Parliament from Salvini and Le Pen ally here, they spoke of the resolution of the European Parliament, until it seemed that they could easily answer the question of whom the European Parliament resolution had more votes against? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH protests.]] For I surprise you: it was the group where you want to join the European Parliament. Continuation of CH protests. In next year's elections, since they're talking about them, you're campaigning to join the group...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u108	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u109	...that more votes against had to designate Russia as a terrorist state.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u110	Shut up, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u111	It is therefore necessary to speak of hypocrisy here when they have taken a stand with the most Putinist Members of the European Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u112	We're gonna let this moment pass some tension.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u113	You still have to grow up a little bit! [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u114	I don't care, you can continue this dialogue. "Dialogue between parliamentary groups" I will not say, because there is still no parliamentary group on the side of the Free. Now, in order to maintain perhaps the same level, you have the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to give an explanation that seems important to us. Mr Rui Tavares, you need to understand a little bit of things. [[PS and L protests.]] It is not a draft resolution that creates the legal framework, as you should know, at least. If this were an impediment, the Latvian Parliament had not adopted a resolution in the same sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u117	...the Lithuanian Parliament had not submitted one in the same sense, the Polish Senate had not submitted another in the same sense! [[L. Protests.]] No, Mr, it is in the same sense, only that you do not know, or know, and you come here, as you always do, to talk about what you do not know. That's the problem! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u118	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u119	So let's worry about what matters, which is the Socialist Party. Mr Francisco César, the Free will may not know, but the PS has a duty to know that another international framework is in fact needed, and he knows that many of the Eastern states are adopting resolutions like this which we are submitting today, States of which you are partners. In the European Parliament, they voted in a way. Now, how are you going to vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u120	Let me answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u121	Do you think, or not, that Russia must be a terrorist state? That's it! And if you don't, that's hypocrisy. It is not the European groups, it is the hypocrisy that works. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u122	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u123	It's for honor's sake, or what? Oh, my God! It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u124	Mr Rui Tavares, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u125	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u126	in these matters, as you know, I try to be quite rigorous and quite regimental. Therefore, you will address me and will adhere precisely to the terms of our Rules of Procedure. You have the palace, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u127	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute this House, because it has already been mentioned several times, of the European Parliament resolution calling for the establishment of a legal framework to designate States as sponsors of terrorism, and together, he concludes, his list of votes, which proves that the parliamentary group of the political family of the Arrival was most opposed to that designation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u128	What about Estonia? Latvia? Lithuania? You have to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u129	Mr Rui Tavares, I commend him for his scrupulously complying with the Rules of Procedure. Give a lot of help to the Bureau, probably. Now, let's move on to... [[CH protests and L-protests.]] I think this stuff is out of the question, if you don't mind. Mr. André Ventura, help conduct the work. Mr Ricardo Sousa now speaks for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD does not hesitate to condemn the acts of war and terror committed by the Russian Federation in Ukrainian territory. Our support for Ukraine in its war effort is unconditional and our support for its accession to the European Union is unconditional, and today we are sure that it is an important instrument of defence and security of the Union. in this framework, it is essential that the atrocities and crimes committed have a consequence in international criminal jurisdiction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u131	This should be the way: the way of leading the Russian Federation to respond in international criminal justice. [[PSD applause.]] This is one of the reasons that leads us not to follow the project of Arrival,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u132	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u133	... a project which, from our point of view, fails in the legal and political foundations, for example compared to the resolution of the European Parliament last November, fails to materialize in the absence of a European legal framework which gives it the basis and substance, but especially fails at the opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u134	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. The idea that has been gaining strength today is precisely the creation of a special criminal body in line with the efforts made by the United Nations, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Union itself, as can be seen and verified by the Council conclusions of 9 February.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u136	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u137	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. Therefore, more than a proclamation, today it is necessary to create conditions to investigate, to judge and to condemn, if necessary, the Russian Federation for the atrocities committed. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u138	We are now closing this item on the agenda. So you have the floor, Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in this discussion, there is no plan B. We want Russia to be recognized as a sponsor of international terrorism. The reasons were listed during this debate, but this time no political party in this House can stand on the wall. They must vote and have the courage to condemn an invading and visibly terrorist state. Today we will see who is on the side of Ukraine or on the side of Russia. The PSD has arranged the costume craftsmanship. Get all kinds of arguments not to compromise. The PCP condemns, condemns, condemns, but will remain in history for not condemning a war made by Russia, which has invaded Ukraine. We also had the Left Block, which just failed to say that the war was war's fault. It was the only thing Mrs Isabel Pires missed to say. In fact, we know that the Left Block does not like to condemn terrorists and that is why they even had FP-25 terrorists (People's Forces 25 April) on their lists at the authorship. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's protests.]] On 23 November 2022, the European Parliament declared Russia a sponsor of terrorism. A number of countries have already done so, as has already been mentioned this morning: the Parliament of Lithuania, the Parliament of Latvia, the Parliament of Estonia and the Senate of Poland.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u141	in this war which, for example, the CFP, as I have already said, insists on not condemning, are involved terrorist groups that commit atrocious crimes and that do not worry about killing women and children, such as Wagner Group or Kadyrov Regiment. The UN accuses Russia of war crimes and human rights violations. The international community is no longer in doubt either. Members of the terrorist organizations and Russian armed forces rape women in front of their children, cut off members of the elderly, torture and subject people to inhumane treatment. If these are no more than sufficient reasons to recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism, we can add attacks to hospitals, schools, shops and residential areas. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is not enough to say that we condemn the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It is not enough to say that we are supportive. It is not enough to come here to the Minister of Defence, as you have just done, to say that we are preparing Ukrainian soldiers. It is not enough to slap President Zelenskyy. [[L-protests and PS Francisco César's deputy.]] It is not enough to say that we will help Ukraine. Today, March 17, 2023, is the day of having the courage to declare Russia a sponsor of international terrorism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u142	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u143	I will finish, Mr. President. When voting on this draft resolution, think about the women, children, the elderly, the images of torture that we have seen every day on television and the feelings of that defenseless population. The only red line that can exist today in this Parliament is in relation to terrorism. We did our part. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u144	We therefore conclude this second item on our agenda. We immediately move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bills No 562 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ( amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ), 563 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the General Scheme for the Protection of Offenders, which transposed Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who denounce violations of Union law, 358 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens and clarifys the impediments and mechanisms for preventing conflicts of interest applicable to holders of political and high public positions by amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 613 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Combats the « rotating doors » between political positions and economic groups by strengthening the regime for preventing the exercise of positions in private undertakings by holders of executive political positions and their sanctioning regime by amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 614 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the penalty framework provided for in Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ( Legal regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ) and 625 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of environmental crime complainants by amending Law No 93 / 2021 of 20 December. To present, from then on, the Bill No 562 / XV / 1. a ( BE), Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has scheduled the debate on this issue and has brought its legislative initiatives to achieve a very simple, concrete, but paramount goal in a democracy, which is to separate business policy. That is why we really want to qualify democracy, because this is an imperative in any democracy that takes itself seriously: to separate business policy, to defend transparency, to ensure that there is no doubt or dark spaces, that there is no kind of mental reserve on the act of any political decision-maker. To separate business policy is to safeguard the public interest, the public record, the guarantee that what is all and everyone is properly treated, safeguarded and does not give up any private interest. We need to separate business policy. That is exactly why we have brought two legislative initiatives which are based on three concrete proposals. The first is to respond to the appeal of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic ( PGR ), which speaks of a factor of obscurity: there is currently no impediment in our law for any governor to participate in the decision to allocate Community funds to his or her relatives, in particular his or her spouses. This non-existence, I repeat, says the Advisory Council of the PGR, is a factor of obscurity and, by transparency, we propose that this impediment be created and that this necessary monitoring be ensured. We do so because we know that over the next few years tens of billions of euros will be allocated by the State to Community funds and, if there is no such safeguard, there will be doubt and suspicion that they are unacceptable in democracy. Our second proposal provides for the worsening of the period of disgust for governors who leave executive functions and we also create a new declarative obligation for these rulers: when they are working for any company, they must inform the Entity for Transparency, ensuring that they effectively detect non-compliances and prevent the « rotating doors ». So we do two penalties: on the one hand, because of the lack of a statement and on the other, because of the exercise of these functions when the law previously says that they should not be performed. On this matter, there must be clarity. Mr Prime Minister was shocked, for example, when the former Secretary of State Rita Marques went to work in one of the companies in the sector that he had previously protected. Mr President of the Republic was also shocked about the matter. But about this, what was exposed was the absolute inconsequentialness of the law, because the law forbids, but lets it exist. The law says it can't happen, but it's impotent to this event. The law says that the ruler cannot pass to the private of the sector he has guarded, but has no consequences for that ruler, if he does so. That is exactly why we propose the introduction of these two obligations: the declarative obligation and the penalty, if it goes to the private to do this. On the other hand, we propose strengthening the protection of the complainants, because we know — and we have seen the example of this — that, in local authorities, there is much reprisal to those who try to defend the public interest and, if they do so, may be injured in their career and in their personal interest. Thus, as the term of office lasts for four years, anyone who denounces a chamber president at the beginning of the term may suffer reprisals during the term of office, because only four years later there will be elections. If we want to protect those who stand up to safeguard the public interest, to denounce those who face the public interest, then the protection period for civil servants should be changed for four years, to ensure that, in the mandate in which there is a complaint, there is no kind of reprisal. So there are three proposals on which I wanted to remove any accusations from the table from the beginning that they are responding to specific cases. They respond to specific cases, yes, but have no retroactive effect. However, the response to specific cases is the form of construction of the entire legal building that protects the State. I ask whether any of the specific cases to which our legislative initiatives are to be answered deserves support, deserve the acceptance of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is because the answer is simple and direct: they do not deserve and therefore the law should be updated, because it was exposed, both within its limits and inconsequential. It is therefore to respond to the opinion of the Advisory Council of the PGR, to respond to the concerns of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic and to ensure the defence of the complainants within the framework of the Public Administration that we make our proposals. As I said, we need to separate business policy and defend what is from everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u146	To present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have all heard, in the streets and cafes, by friends or strangers, that politicians are corrupt, or statements that paint politicians as people who seek only their own gain. Regardless of the form of these expressions, the truth is that they raise concerns about how public opinion perceives politicians who act in Portugal and, above all, the "rotating doors" that still persist. Every day, it is required by the population more transparency and more exemption from political action and, therefore, we have a duty, as representatives of all Portuguese people, to respond to their appeals and hopes and to be more demanding with the action of political decision-makers. In recent years, progress has certainly been made in the area of transparency and in the fight against corruption in politics, which has also been achieved by the action of the NAP, such as limiting the links of Members to football clubs. Unjustified enrichment and concealment of enrichment have also been criminalized and great obstacles have been placed at the turning doors between the Banco de Portugal, the commercial bank and financial consultants. However, the fight for more transparency in politics is an ongoing process and previously approved regimes must be improved as new barriers and new realities arise. That is why we are bringing the debate on initiatives aimed at following the appeal of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which clarify the law and which close several gray areas which may arise according to legal interpretation. In addition, we added to the discussion of this diploma another bill, which aims to strengthen the protection of the complainants of environmental crimes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions, because the younger ones are going to pay an unsustainable climate bill and we cannot say, one day, that we are all very committed to environmental protection and, the other, to leave those who denounce unprotected. The complainants have a fundamental role in our democracy, often risking their physical integrity for the sake of transparency and public interest, their credibility and their freedom of action. In environmental matters, the complainants are not the heroes we deserve, but the heroes we need, and it is our responsibility to ensure that they have the protection they deserve. That is why we bring forward a new proposal, which aims to include people who are not professionally linked to the reporting entity, so that an anti-SLAPP mechanism (strategic lawsuits against public participation) can be established. This is a mechanism often used to intimidate complainants. With this proposed mechanism, we guarantee the protection of complainants from possible prosecutions undertaken by the reporting entity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the amendments we propose are leveraged not only by good international legislative practice but also, as already mentioned by the Court of Auditors, by the OECD and also by numerous non-governmental environmental organisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u148	To present the initiative of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The controversy about the intention of hiring a former Secretary of State on the part of a company that obtained benefits from the State under its protection raised the question of the adequacy and effectiveness of the regime of incompatibilities and impediments applicable to former holders of political positions. This case joins so many others that, over time and under various governments, the PS, the PSD and the CDS, they feed a sense of impunity in relation to practices such as so-called « rotating doors », between the exercise of public office and hiring by private companies, practices of corruption, trafficking in influences and economic or financial crime. How can you, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen, do you trust the options of governments that secretly subject the public interest to particular interests and economic power, with the results that are in sight? How can one rely on the options of governments that are strong with the weak, but docile and friends of the economic groups? It's not possible! You can't trust me! And, therefore, the promiscuity between political and economic power, corruption, impunity for white collar crimes, bank scandals and misuse of public money are faced with democracy. In a democracy, that is not acceptable! Combating these phenomena is essential for the defence of democracy and the rule of democratic law. Without exaggerating the root causes of these practices and their intrinsic roots in an economic system based on capitalist accumulation, the CFP requires a real fight against these phenomena, not only by improving existing legislative mechanisms, but also by providing the judicial authorities and criminal investigation with the means necessary to ensure the effectiveness of their missions. In the old regime, in fascism, corruption was State politics. In dictatorship, censorship and limited control of the press, such as persecution of political opponents, sought to undermine the absolute fusion between political power and the great economic and financial interests. In the deepest silence and promiscuity, the regime served well the capital and families of the regime. It was not by any chance that on 25 April it was against the subordination of economic power to political power, and therefore the MFA programme ( Armed Forces Movement ) entered into measures which led to the effective fight against corruption and speculation and to the rigorous monitoring and control of all economic and financial operations with foreign nationals. If, in fascism, corruption and promiscuity were corollary to the rot of the regime, in a democracy the sacrifice of the common good is not accepted to favour a few. Therefore, the subordination of economic power to political power, enshrined in our Constitution, and the fight against corruption and economic or financial crime are problems of the democratic regime and action in its defence, but they are also objectives of the struggle for full democracy in its political, economic, social and cultural dimensions. In democracy, we have freedom, and that freedom is an instrument for combating corruption. Can democratic Portugal accept the succession of cases in which there is a favour of interests other than the public interest? Can our country accept, as has recently happened, the hiring of two former ministers by lawyers companies, with exercises in areas that coincide exactly with the scope of the areas itself entitled as ministers? These are contracts that occurred immediately after their departure from the Government. The answer is: you can't! This is contrary to democracy! If the period of inhibition of private functions after the termination of public functions appears too short and the sanctioning regime appears harmless, if the holder ceases to be an executive political position with the inhibition of the exercise of public office for three years because he has taken office in a private undertaking is an almost irrelevant sanction, then for this prohibition to be effective, it is necessary to improve the scheme. We therefore propose: the extension of three to five years of the period of inhibition of the holder of an executive political office for the performance of functions in a private enterprise of the sector itself, by establishing a period of longer duration than a legislature, thus seeking to ensure the temporary breakdown with the period during which the government functions have been exercised; the application of that inhibition for any company of the sector and not only on undertakings which have been the subject of privatization, have benefited from financial incentives or from systems of incentives and tax benefits of a contractual nature, or for which there has been a direct intervention by the holder of political office; the application of the inhibition to situations of hiring of the sector, or of an entity in which its own participation is held, or to which it provides services. We also propose the extension of the period between three and five years of the prohibition of the exercise of public office by the former holder of political office which is hired by private company in violation of the law. We also propose, in these situations, the obligation to repay the company with the support, benefits or funds allocated to it by decision of that former political position holder. We also propose that undertakings which hire holders of political positions in violation of the law should enter into contracts with the State or any public entity, benefit from any incentives or exemptions involving public resources and access to Community funds for a period of five years from the practice of the infringement. Finally, we propose to strengthen the system of incompatibilities. Mrs. Members, promiscuity, corruption, impunity that has been transversed to the various governments, impunity for these behaviours is the enemy of the democratic regime, it is the enemy of our country. Whoever effectively wants to defend democracy, whoever wants to honor what the April Revolution and the people wanted for the country must take action. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u150	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « The risk-free policy is a mess, but without ethics, it is a shame. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]] This phrase of Francisco Sá Carneiro was never as current as now, when we were still recently confronted with numerous cases of incompatibility in government members. Examples are several : Pedro Nuno Santos, former Minister of Infrastructure, was a partner of a company in which his father held a majority position, which made public contracts by direct adjustment with the State ; Minister Ana Abrunhosa, whose husband benefited from funds, when Minister, was President of the CCDRC ( Centre Regional Coordination and Development Committee ). I also refer to the cartoon case of Manuel Pizarro, current Minister of Health, who, since he took possession, was a partner of a company in the field of health, or that of the husband of the Secretary of State for Fisheries, or that of the woman of the Secretary of State of Conservation of Nature and Forests, who had participations in companies that made contracts with the State. Cases don't seem to end!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u153	We know, therefore, that this is a debate that greatly bothers the Socialist Party, but not only. It is overwhelming, it is distressing to see how some parties insist on looking at all these cases and see no incompatibility, or do not think it is necessary to change the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u155	In the meantime, the Portuguese out there are, in effect, watching all this promiscuity and moving away from politics and politicians. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country where degraded essential services repeatedly fail, where we see an SNS bursting through the seams, with urgent closures, is the same as having one of the most efficient tax machines in the world, where the citizen is migrated to the tutan.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u156	Sure! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u157	But this is also the same country with maximum levels of efficiency whenever it is necessary to promote party interests, whatever the scale of power. It is a country where justice is increasingly inoperative in matters of corruption, with disappointing results, where there are no cases, there are no convicted, no prisoners, no recovery of any assets in such crimes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u158	But it is also the country where the PS government is always ready to relativize questionable and immoral, untransparent or possibly illegal processes involving its members. It is therefore of the greatest importance that the increase in the sanctions provided for in the law should be considered in order to prevent similar situations from occurring in the future. Let us see the case of Article 11. that of Law No 52 / 2019, which provides for a sanctioning regime for holders of political and high public positions who violate the duty of transparency, and which includes the presentation of declarations of heritage, income, interest, incompatibilities and impediments. According to this article, holders of political positions and high public positions that do not comply with these obligations may be subject to sanctions, such as termination of their public functions, loss of benefits or royalties associated with the post, or even the application of fines. It is understood that this sanctioning regime aims to ensure transparency and integrity in the exercise of public functions, avoiding conflicts of interest and other situations that may compromise ethics and efficiency in public management. However, recent events have shown that these standards, specifically intended for holders and former holders of political and high public positions, of the two, one: or are not known to them or are not convinced of their bindingness, which is to lament in both cases. With this initiative, however, we want to make a contribution to the disclosure of them and their bindingness, in particular with regard to the rules which enshrine the regime applicable after the termination of duties, extending the ban on the exercise of public functions for six years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In addition, it is innovative as to the consequences of the guilty violation of the obligations of conduct enshrined there, which will become the basis for the imputation of criminal responsibility. Similarly, it is proposed that more serious penalties should be applied in respect of the period of inhibition for the exercise of public functions, with imprisonment for up to two years or a fine for up to 240 days. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is therefore undeniable that ethics and transparency are fundamental to efficient and responsible public management. Today, more than ever, it is necessary to restore this ethics, this transparency, so that confidence between citizens and the State can be strengthened. That is what we have come here today to propose through this initiative, because the Portuguese deserve more. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u159	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto spoke on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u160	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The subject we are discussing today is of the most complex that can be discussed in this House. It is complex, because it is a very subject given to populist arguments and, for populists, the only way in this matter is to impose more and more restrictions on passing the message to your electorate that only they are pure and virtuous in a world of corrupt. And it is a complex matter, mainly because it passes the idea, justified, that we are judging on our own. But this is the first point that we should make clear: these options that we make here are not only, or primarily, concerned itself; the decisions we make in this matter will also determine the quality of our successors, the quality of the people who sit in these chairs after us. A good politician is not just someone who does a good job as long as he occupies his position, a good politician is someone who leaves the ground ready so that his successors can be even better. It is our responsibility to leave conditions for people who feel in these chairs, 10 or 20 years from now, to be more quality than we are, to be able to do more for the country than we are able to do today. In order to attract quality people to politics, we need policy to be attractive to quality people and, in order to be attractive to quality people, we need to attract people with the past and the future out of politics. It is important that people have gone out of politics to bring this experience and clarity to their duties. We want in the ministry someone with knowledge in the area that guards, who understands the sector and who brings work methods adapted to this area. In this House of the Republic we need people who know the reality for which they are legislated and who understand the direct and indirect consequences of the legislation they approve. There are few things as negative to political practice as having professional politicians disconnected from the world that protect and to which they legislate. But if having people who have gone out of politics is important to ensure technical quality and perception of the reality they protect, it is also important that they have a future out of politics and feel that they have it, because few honest people will enter a temporary position, knowing that this job will ruin their professional life. But it is also important that they have a future outside the policy so that these people do not feel the urgency of eternality within them and that they do not make their decisions conditional on their need for political survival. by restricting the possibilities of those who come out, we are limiting the quality of those who enter. Getting into politics cannot be a certificate of professional death, but it will only be left to professional politicians and corrupt ones who will always find ways to earn profit by their actions. The decisions made by a politician in relation to his new employer or client after he has ceased his duties are examined and heard in detail, but there is no withdrawal from anyone the possibility of having a career after politics, because nothing good will come from there, except for those for whom politics is a career and not a desirable temporary mission. This may not be popular or populist, but the tight scrutiny that we need is that of the effective lawlessness of political acts and not the presumption of lawlessness in any political act. It should be our objective to contribute to improving the quality of politicians and reducing corruption. Let us move away from political life people with a different life than politics will in no way contribute to these objectives, rather we will have a career-oriented political class that is more susceptible to corruption. It is important to examine the rotating doors and it is important to put limits, but these limits should not be those of populist discourses. It is important to audit and analyse in detail the decisions made by politicians in functions involving future employers. But as it is important to search the rotating doors, it is also important not to transform politics into a building without doors of exit. There are two types of buildings where you enter, but where you can't leave: asylums and prisons. No one wants political life to be composed only by the kind of people who normally attend these two buildings. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u161	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and to make it clear - I give the floor to Mr André Ventura of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u162	Mr President, Mr Guimarães Pinto, I have listened carefully and there is a point in which we agree: the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative do not want politics to be made of careers, and that, I think, is a common point. But you say that limiting the possibilities of those who leave is also limiting those who are going to happen to us. This, given this, may even be true, but we have had the case of a State Secretary, who will give as an example, Rita Marques, who has protected an area and who has decided to allocate tax benefits to a particular company—either well or badly, derived from or not from the law, it was she who decided to assign those tax benefits—in which, after that, she would go to work there. What was the penalty if she violated the law? None! So I ask you whether, when you say there has to be more scrutiny, you do not think there has to be a consequence too. It is that we had a state secretary who has protected an area, which has attributed tax or extra-tax or contractual benefits or otherwise to a particular company and which then goes to work there. Therefore, Mr President, there must not only be scrutiny, there must be sanctions, there must be incompatibility! As far as public undertakings are concerned, Mr Deputies, how do we stay? We have cases of ministers who have protected the construction of bridges and today work in the companies of these bridges.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u163	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u164	Is this legitimate? Is it moral? Is this what helps transparency? Are there ministers who have decided to allocate EUR 100 million to a company and then go to work there? It's not enough to say that there has to be scrutiny...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u165	It's limiting options!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u166	It is true, sir, that it is limiting the options. It's true, but what's our other option? Are we going to let this rotating door of sympathy and promiscuity between the private sector and the public sector or between public companies and the government continue? We must have openness to receive the best and best of your generation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u168	But we also have to be aware that only the law can solve this problem, because otherwise we will not have a Rita Marques, we will have 40 Ritas Marques in the coming years. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u169	To reply, Mr Calos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u170	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, answered your question when, from that rostrum, he said it was important to examine the decisions that were made by former rulers and that somehow interfered with future clients or future employers. What we cannot do, if we want to have quality policies, is to tell them that entering a job is to sign a death certificate of a career. I know that this is not popular, it is not populist and that, in the environment in which we are, it is much easier to scream and say that they are all corrupt, but our responsibility should be to ensure that we are able to attract quality people to this life. We need to attract quality people to this life, we need our successors to be better than we do, we need our successors to enter this career knowing that they can go out, without a career perspective of political life, and that does not just happen to seal all the doors of exit. There is a line that has to be drawn, but that line cannot be that of the discourse that they are all corrupt and that if they did something, it was to favor someone. That must never be the line! I think we should, not for our own good, but for the sake of the country and its future, be able to draw a line in a non-populist way and think about these matters always taking into account the future of the country and not the next survey. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u171	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every time this debate comes to debate about the incompatibilities and impediments of political office holders, it is really easy to fall into the populism of coffee talk, tavern talk, very informal conversations of our friends that they are all corrupt and that they are all stealing and that those who are in politics are not recommended. It is very easy to have this speech, because it hangs, even because often the activity of politicians and the holders of public office is unknown. We can take this attitude and say it's the tree that makes the forest or we can have another view of things and think: we have to remove the damaged trees and they're hurting the forest and protecting the forest. [[PSD applause.]] For the PSD, clearly we need to protect the forest and protect the forest is to protect democracy, institutions and also all those who devote their time and their lives to the public cause, with work, with self-denial, with seriousness. This must be our great struggle and this is the position that the PSD has been taking on in these matters over time. We have never embarked on the fire-breakdown of cases and homes that so many lines and so many layers of newspapers have made. Each case is a case and the PSD always said: apply the law! We cannot apologize when we do not comply with the law that exists and do not apply, saying that we need another law. We have to apply it! [[PSD applause.]] Today, as yesterday, this remains the position of the PSD. It's too serious to play with populism. Don't arrest everyone, because they're mean, it's not with prison sentences that solves the problem. We have, yes, to revisit the law, over four years, to deal with some of the issues for which we have been brought to our attention. We have to make the best people still want to come to politics, so that we don't turn politicians into a bunch of boys, who never did anything in life. We have to have quality people, with careers and the real world, to be truly representative of the world and society, otherwise we run the risk of getting divorced from the country. In particular, it has drawn attention to the opinion of the PGR ( Attorney-General's Office of the Republic) on the question of funds, whether it is clear or not that a spouse, a de facto union of an ascendant or descendant of a holder, can access Community funds. This is one of the issues that needs to be clarified. Also other cases, such as Rita Marques's, have really prevented us from having, after the exercise of functions, in practice, those who violate the law suffer no consequences. It is necessary, in fact, to review the law, but it is not with jail sentences, it is with actual facts and consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u173	More! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u174	Therefore, the PSD believes that we must review the regime, as we have always said, but we will not embark, as we have never boarded, in easy speeches, in prisons for everything and all and in calling all corrupt, because it is not true. We must dignify this House, democracy. Public office holders do their best for the public service,... [[PSD applause.]] ...by their people and by their territory, so that they may continue to be and that the new generations may also have the best here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u175	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I was beginning to welcome the Left Block for the scheduling. In fact, these three issues are particularly relevant to the construction of clear and robust legislation on the protection of complainants, the inhibition of activities by holders of political positions and the definition of the period of disgust or, as is sometimes called, the prevention of rotating doors. However, it seems to us - and this is a first point we would like to point out - that the successive amendment and, sometimes, to the overlaps of legislation on these matters is not the best method and usually generates incoherent legislation and that often does not relate to each other. soon, although it does not necessarily have to be that relevant date, it will be four years since Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July entered into force. It is a good time to make a comprehensive assessment of its measures, to be able to reflect on these aspects that are now being put into the agenda and others whose application and whose doubts of interpretation have raised important elements. So we have this availability, as we have said in the past, and this debate today can be a prerequisite for this exercise. I want to talk about two of the proposals that the Left Block brings to us today: the additional inhibition of activities, particularly with regard to Community funds, and the matter of rotating doors. I must say, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, that the first proposal — not necessarily the proposal, but a statement that makes in this debate — is based on a legal error and it is important that we are aware that today the legislation on these matters does not fall within the scope of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July. Moreover, since 1992 the Code of Administrative Procedure has a significant set of impediments which make it impossible, impossible for a spouse or a spouse to be united in fact, a father or a child to decide whatever is in relation to any matter under his or her decision, whether it is public procurement or Community financing, whether it is the allocation of tax or other benefits. Therefore, it is imprecise when it says that, in the absence of this amendment, a holder of a post could make a decision about the company or about the activity, or about a financing of his or her husband or wife. What we are discussing when discussing this proposal and this inhibition is that this spouse or family member could not even develop his or her activity at all. It could not even, at all, even if it was your entire life's professional activity, present a candidacy that the law already guarantees that it cannot be appreciated by your family. at this point, we cannot follow the proposal as the Left Block the formula, because, by applying the regime we have today for public procurement to the Community funds as if it were exactly the same thing, as if there were no jury presence, as if there were no strict rules that define who can and under what conditions they are assigned, this would generate an imbalance that seems to us that, on the limit, it is even a generator of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u178	Therefore, this enlargement is not a matter that does not need to be debated, but, in terms of their proposal, it seems that it cannot have any effect on third parties in this way. The second aspect — the matter of the period of disgust or the rotating doors — is indeed quite worthy of adherence to some of the things that are put here. I would now remind you that the history of this article of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July is the result of the amendments we introduced to it in 2019 and on the proposal of this bench. Until 2019, only when there were tax benefits or financial incentives—so a fairly limited range of materials—is that there was activation of this period of inhibition for three years. Now, in 2019, what we did was to extend this to any circumstances where a position holder had taken a decision on a particular company. Therefore, it has ceased to be only that limited universe of tax benefits or financial incentives, sufficient for a public decision maker to make a decision about a particular company to be inhibited for three years from participating in it or having professional activity. What do we all conclude in this House? That the regime we have is insufficient in terms of sanctions. No one noticed this in 2019, we maintained the sanctions regime that existed, but I would also stress - and Mr Ventura recently noted this - that it is not accurate to say that there is no penalty. There is a penalty, which is the inhibition of functions for three years. However, what we conclude is that, for those who are not interested or for those who are not mobilized by the exercise of public functions, this may not be a sanction that is taken as a sanction, I pass redundancy. So it seems to us that, yes, here is a way to look at the duration of this inhibition, on the one hand, and also at the sphere — as it is proposed in another project, which is that of the Portuguese Communist Party — of the company that hires the person, knowing that, obviously, it has performed public functions. However, we do not follow some of the other proposals, because it seems to us that they go too far and disbalance them. Using the criminal procedure to punish these circumstances is inadequate. It is inappropriate because criminal law should not be an instrument for any and all circumstances when there is another less serious issue to solve it — and it seems to us that there is. Similarly, to sanction the non-communication that he has been held in public office when, above all, he has not only been held in public office, but an act has been carried out in relation to that company is a public and notorious fact and it does not seem to us the best solution. It seems to us that extending declarative obligations is a path to be considered. That is why Mr Guimarães Pinto is right: the balance that is made is with strengthening scrutiny and strengthening of scrutiny requires greater transparency. In other words, citizens, the political community, the press have to be able to vote on the exercise of political office. This is achieved by this way of equipping it with the tools to be able to verify whether, indeed, A or B has practiced an act in relation to C or D and whether, in any way, this should be worthy of legal censorship, or even of political censorship, if the legal is not sufficient. In short, with regard to these various initiatives, we will not be able to follow them all because they seem to us unbalanced and build regimes that do not solve the problem, give the appearance of solving, and that is the worst possible remedy for real problems of effectiveness and credibility of the institutions. However, we will do everything possible to ensure that, in the coming months, we can have a serious debate in the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members and finally review it — it is not at last, but at the end of a time which seems reasonable to us! — Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u179	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I assume you're responding together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u180	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u181	For the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u182	Mr President, Mr Delgado Alves, your intervention began by referring to the protection of the Community funds and the current impediments which, in your opinion, are sufficient, but which, in our view, are insufficient. And it's not just our opinion. It is the PGR's own Advisory Council which says that there is here, and I quote, « a factor of darkness». The first question is very simple and direct: how does it respond to the Advisory Council of the PGR on this obscurity factor? Is everything leaving at the same time? If we only revisit this in the four years of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, we will have implemented more than EUR 1000 million of Community funds up to that point in government forecast. I think he sent the caution that we would not leave for tomorrow what we can and should do today. It is that the Left Block has already presented these initiatives a month and a half ago, and the Socialist Party has since now been reflecting, like the PSD, and have not brought any initiative to debate. We therefore look forward to the anniversary of the laws to make new laws or to correct what are the obscurity factors identified by the Advisory Council of the PGR. Second question, concerning the case of former Secretary of State Rita Marques, Mr. Prime Minister said in plenary that he condemned the choice she made, but before the law, his position was inconsequential. The President of the Republic said he condemned the choice of the former Secretary of State, but before the law there is no consequence but what he said, that is, for three years he will not be able to go to the government again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u183	You can't be a civil servant!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u184	But she doesn't want to go to the government again, she doesn't want executive role, she wants to be in a private company in the area she's put up with! This is not about returning to your activity, as Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto said. She does not go to the company where she was, go to a company where, as a governor, she had a role in the allocation of subsidies in the form of tax benefits! On this subject, leaving for tomorrow what we must defend today is not acceptable. But the honourable Member says, 'well, but the criminalization of the Left Block opens here a new aspect. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, what do you want to do in terms of law? I ask you: is it more serious not to declare or fail to comply with the obligation to declare this criminal frame as a consequence, or is it less serious, more serious or equally serious to go to a company with which it was connected while in government? It is that there are weights and balances in the choice of legal measures, and what we did was not inventing a new crime. It was to equate the practices within the current model and that the Socialist Party, as you said, also voted in favour. Finally, I would like to ask you whether or not we follow up with our complainants in the case of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u185	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u186	I conclude, Mr. President. Because if we make a decision now, it can still be useful before the end of the term of office of the autarchs. If not, if it is at the end of the year, any person who denounces an author will be held accountable for the consequences and their revenges at the workplace. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u187	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u188	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the first question is precisely what Mr Pedro Filipe Soares put and is: how will we answer that which is today considered by the Public Prosecutor himself as the obscure part of the law? Do you think the PS that we should wait for the anniversary of legislation to correct aspects that, for the Public Prosecutor himself, are important to correct immediately? The second point in which the honourable Member is concerned is the following: he says that, as regards the part of accession to Community funds, there is a fundamental disagreement, and that is an understandable position. But with regard to sanctions for cases similar to those of the former Secretary of State Rita Marques, the honourable Member says 'good, there may be a sanction, but not criminal', and that there are other ways of solving this problem. It was important that we know who they are! The honourable Member says that there may be other declarative obligations. Okay, but what reporting obligations? Will the Secretary of State have to say a month or two in advance that goes to company A, B or C? And if you say and you can't, what are the consequences? Real estate consequences, for example: can you lose everything you gained while you were a member of the government? This could be unconstitutional, but it could also be a measure to be studied. What we have to do today is define so that we can then discuss in the Commission the best way, the best way to do it. It is that we cannot wait another year or more two, to see more three or four Ritas Marques, with the country losing credibility in institutions every day it passes! So, and because you opened the door to this clarification, I would like to ask you a question. He said that the PS believes that criminal law is not the right instrument in this case. Okay, that's understandable. So what, in the PS perspective, would be the understandable instrument? A guarantee of property, a mere declarative sanction, more declarative obligations, a civil or administrative sanction? We should start walking instead of waiting for birthdays of laws and continue these cases to undermine the credibility of democracy! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u189	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u190	Mr President, I begin with the question concerning the opinion of the Advisory Council of the PGR put by the two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The Advisory Council does not say that the norm is generating darkness. It says, yes, that the norm is obscure because it does not foresee this situation and it is not clear whether it is equal or not. The Advisory Council does not say at any time that there would be no inhibition, which is provided for in the Code of Administrative Procedure since 1992 and before that. There is no legal doubt about this: a holder of a post may not intervene in any decision relating to the family group identified in Article 69. the Code of Administrative Procedure. And, in relation to an additional layer of people who have close relationships, it is likely to make excuses or suspicion, in Article 73. the Code of Administrative Procedure. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not what is at stake. The question, as I have just said, is whether it becomes prohibited for someone who has a certain business, commercial or other activity to continue to develop it because of having a family relationship with someone who is not even going to make a decision about it, because it is not even a matter that is within its scope. And it is this imbalance that seems to us to be underlying the proposal that is put forward. As for the second aspect, it is not about celebrating birthdays. It is just to say that you have to have the ability to collect relevant information before you make a major decision. The law in force has already led to its fourth amendment in four years' time. This does not seem to us to be a good legislative technique and to demonstrate a good ability to have balanced solutions. It's all that has to be balanced, we can't just keep with plots or legs of this messed-up table. It was this effort that was made in 2019 that I think can be done again now. I mean, we're around the corner, we're just a few months from now, which seems to us to be at least one way of organizing the conduct of these works. Now Mr Ventura has apparently not put forward a proposal on this very subject to extend Community funding. So we can even assume that you are also waiting, that you are doing this weighting exercise. Nor did he arrive at the debate with proposals on this subject, so I can return the question to him: what is the position of the Reach on this point? Nor did he present it and, in this respect, with everyone's willingness to discuss it in committee, we will, of course, do so. Finally, with regard to the question they both asked about the Rita Marques case, the case raised about the Secretary of State for Tourism, the proposals presented by the Communist Party in this debate seem to us to be the most balanced and balanced. Although we do not fully agree with all the proposals tabled — therefore, we will not vote favourably — we will make it possible for its discussion in the field of specialty, because there are three elements that seem important to us: on the one hand, to extend the period of sanction; on the other hand, to ensure that on the side of companies there is also a sanction, and this also has this impact; and finally, to arrange mechanisms to assess whether grants, support or decisions awarded during functions were the same in compliance with the law, which is what ensures that the impartiality of the Public Administration and the legality of decisions have not been affected by these cases. Therefore, these are three measures that seem to us a reasonable and appropriate path, and that we will have all the availability to discuss in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u191	You now have the floor to speak to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u192	Mr President, we have been discussing rotating doors when, in fact, it is no longer good for rotating doors to be spoken. The phenomenon of rotating doors is someone who has been in private, go to the government, go to the private again, go back to the government and make decisions on the same issues; what we have been watching, and that motivates this debate, would be another kind of tap and government run in which the person is in the government, leaves the government for the private, or rather, goes to companies that are within the framework of the decisions he made before, and does not return to the government. And this is the problem in the law, because the law provided a penalty that was that of the person cannot return to the government, but if the person does not want to return to the government the law does not serve anything. And it's no use either, Mr. André Ventura, since he's waving, saying that they're no longer three years and they're six years old, because the person doesn't want to go back to government, not in three years, nor in six years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u193	Okay, but it lengthens the deadline.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u194	But, right, we're looking to be able to define how this stops happening. When Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto says that we are limiting the options of those who enter the government, for the future, I hope that some options — the bad ones, the dishonest ones — are really limited! It may even be good for some people to stop wanting to go to the government, if their intention is only to become known to them, prospects, future bosses and then to work for them. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] I would therefore like to say that the Free will is accompanying these initiatives and believes that, in particular, we can improve them: on the one hand, so that companies too are aware that by hiring those former governors they become inhibited in access to certain funds - and it seems clear that the burden cannot fall on only the former governor; on the other hand, so that the former governor, in addition to the period of disgust we already have, is aware that there will be an additional scrutiny to the decisions he has taken and realizes that if he is fully aware of it, then he can make his subsequent career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u195	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u196	Mr President, with this ending: what we think the PS has its weakest argument is to say that we have to wait for a birthday to take these deliberations. Even because with the time we spend in the specialty, and that sometimes the PS makes us delay in the specialty, the anniversary will certainly come.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u197	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, with regard to the NAP project, the word that defines it is « misconception ». The problem of this project is that the NAP could have made a law on this matter, but not by altering this decree-law which, in turn, transposes a directive which has a very clear object, which provides for the protection of persons who denounce the violation of European Union law, and not nationally. What could happen with the approval of this bill was to suffer a regression infringement process in transposition, and this would be very serious. On the other hand, it provides for the protection of complainants without any link to the reporting entity. Now, what is the reason for this enhanced complainant protection regime? It is precisely the work link. This, among other problems of some emptiness of concepts, is the main obstacle to our adherence to the NAP diploma. It is even a matter of misconception, for another law would have to be made which is not a bill incorporated into a diploma that transposes a directive and has a very clear object and meaning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u199	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Transparency and corruption, today's debate calls on us to address these two barometers essential for the assessment of the health and quality of our democracies. The transparency of policies and the integrity of politicians are fundamental to the management of the public thing. Serving and representing voters is a noble function, resulting in increased powers and duties. We are all aware that the level of demand and supervision that exists above all of us is increasing, and that political action requires responsibility, independence and integrity. The PSD is, as always, available to deepen and strengthen transparency and to safeguard and protect our democracy from radicalism and populism. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a path that was traced in 2019 in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which was created for the purpose and which resulted, among other things, in an increase in the number of incumbents of positions to be required to submit the statement of interests and assets and the range of sanctions applicable, in addition to the expected creation of a new entity for supervision — the Transparency Entity — and a single declaration of heritage, income and interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislative initiatives in question intend to amend and extend the restrictions on political office holders and seek to solve a problem that is complex, structural, case-by-case, fragmented and partial. But they intend to do so, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at a time when we still have no elements to carry out a rigorous and comprehensive assessment of the implementation of the legislation adopted in 2019, these standards which refer to an entity, the Transparency Entity, which was three years — I repeat, three years! — without leaving paper and on a computer platform which continues, to date, without functioning. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from 2019 to this date, the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions has already been changed four times — I repeat, four times!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u202	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to review and deepen transparency mechanisms, but we cannot do so in any way, under the penalty of failing to do so. We must do so with more elements, with greater experience of law enforcement and, above all, with a more integrated, more global and more structural approach. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, an adult democracy cannot live on the basis of soundbits, party agendas and demagogy and populism. Everything must be well measured, everything must be well thought-out and treated in a global logic, with a systematic view. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is to improve the impediments and immunities of politicians before the various powers and interests set up, another thing is to advance in the direction of professionalization and the creation of policy professionals. We see ourselves on the first path, on the path of increasing scrutiny, supervision and sanctioning of non-compliances, but we do not see ourselves on the second path, on the path that increasingly contributes to a growing departure from politics. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also concerned about how the government has seen corruption. A government that takes six long years to present a national strategy to combat corruption is certainly a government that does not regard this fight as a priority. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, the Corruption Perception Index 2022 points out several failures in the fight against corruption in Portugal and the national strategy. We are talking about a strategy that virtually ignores the issue of corruption in politics and which has been launched without any guidelines or monitoring plan, with weak implementation and implementation of measures aimed at preventing corruption in the public sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u204	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much more needs to be done to combat corruption. We know that we are facing a complex problem, which is not only solved with the creation and implementation of more legislation for this purpose, but the government was required much more. the government was required more information, more monitoring of the use due, or undue, of taxpayers' money in public procurement processes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a government to lead by example, a government that does more to meet the needs of democracy and citizens and to promote an institutional culture that values, once and for all, the importance of transparency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u205	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To confirm what goes beyond the interventions, it is the case that we have some of those parties who embrace, shout and diglade because of the shame of promiscuity to waste an opportunity to do something,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u208	... with the most ghastly apologies you can hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u210	And I am speaking specifically of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, which here do a terrible service to democracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u211	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u212	... and demonstrate that it is only instrumentalization for the political-party game that you are outraged with the promiscuities. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the Socialist Party, anyone who even wants to make it possible to vote in favour. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Pedro Delgado Alves Deputies.]] in this context, we understand perfectly that your viability will mean a reprobation. So what we say is, then, that it is about expurating in specialty what you understand is so unacceptable. [[PS protests.]] Finally, let us look at the concrete proposal and not make an extrapolation of absolutely disproportionate consequences. The PCP proposal extends the impediment of the ex-title to go not only to a company with which it has dealt directly, but also to the sector it has protected. Simple! It extends this impediment for five years, it is not for the whole life, that is, it does not remain the career committed for all time in this particular sector—always in this particular sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u213	We're not going to vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u214	In addition, the proposal of the CFP makes the consequences truly effective. What everyone has said — apparently, some say - without believing it - is that the lack of consequences allows the impunity we have seen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u216	Therefore, what we propose is that there be consequences for the self, being prevented within five years from exercising public office, but also for the company, which will have to return to what it has wrongly benefited, being prevented, for five years, from contracting and having relations with the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u217	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u218	Mr. President, I'm done. This is the simplest and logical thing, it is the only attitude you can have, consequently, to respond and react to those cases that you so often use here to play political games. If you really want to ensure a change in reality and an appreciation of the exercise of political functions, you have a good opportunity here to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u219	We're not going to vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u220	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor, who will be religiously serving the 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u221	Mr. President, I'll try. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to respond to two criticisms that seem to me merely excuses for not supporting the Left Block proposals. The first is that we are responding to cases, because this has no retroactivity. Whatever the initiative is, it has no retroactivity and therefore, in fact, even though we respond to the political problems that have been put in place, no one is responding to cases. The second is the idea that we can only legislate on the anniversary of the laws, when the banks themselves claim it, PS and PSD, participated in three amendments to the law that we propose to change without waiting for the anniversary! In fact, this is an excuse for bad payers: when it matters, there are birthdays to respect and make a party, even balloons are launched; when it doesn't matter, you can do whatever you want, whenever you want. Now, removed from the table these excuses, which are no more than that, let's go to the content. The Advisory Council of the PGR says that there is a lack of transparency in the law as regards Community funds and the possibility of a government to participate in competitions for the distribution of Community funds with relations with family members. This must not happen, the law must be clear, and we therefore propose that the same safeguards be made in this area as in the remaining public tenders, which is just as much as the Advisory Council of the PGR suggests — I do not understand how it can be catalogued as populism here! Secondly, was the indignation of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic serious or not serious when Rita Marques moved from government to private? It is that, if it was serious, we respond to this with the only consequence that it is to put in the current regime exactly the same legal forecast for other legal breaches. If a declaration is not made, it is not done and this effect is done; if the declaration is not repaired, it is not done and this consequence is done. So let them match what is equal. I've got two minutes, Mr. President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u222	I am grateful and aware that, for this purpose, we interpret the adverb « religiously» in the same way. Having said that, we are moving forward to item four of our agenda, which is contained in the following motions for resolutions: No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Establishment of the Operational Unit for Electronic Governance of the United Nations University in Guimarães, signed in Lisbon on 26 July 2021 ; No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam ; No. 7 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between Portugal and Spain on Fisheries in the International Miinho River ; No. 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the 2018 Amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference ; No. 9 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia; No. 10 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the 2014 Amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference. As usual, there are no time allocated for debate in most of these agreements, but several parliamentary groups have indicated the interest in intervening on the motion for a resolution No 5 / XV / 1. a The Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members, who have no more than two minutes each Member representing a parliamentary group and one minute the sole representative of the party. Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group. It has 2 minutes, or less, Mr. Member... as it is only to say that it is a beautiful agreement and that it will benefit the country. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u223	Mr. President, let's see if we can handle two minutes, or less. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to note that we are approving the Supplementary Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University, which aimed to establish the Operational Unit for Electronic Governance of the United Nations University. Basically, the agreement seeks to define additional and operational conditions and contributions to the functioning of the United Nations University, which has existed in Portugal since 2014. So I wanted to take this two minutes to report to the ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament, basically, which has existed in Portugal since 2014, an Operational Unit of the United Nations University. It was created by the PSD government and, moreover, with a strong commitment from the, then Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho and Minister Miguel Poiares Maduro. The truth is that the agreement was concluded in 2014 to cover the five-year period 2014 - 2019. What we are discussing today is the supplementary agreement — already in the period of governance of the Socialist Party — which is to cover the five-year period 2019 - 2023. Like the difference between PS and PSD, we proposed the agreement at the beginning of the quinquennial, while you propose the agreement at the end of the quinquennial. Nothing new! [[PSD applause.]] But the fundamental thing is to say the following: the country must know that there exists in our territory the only institution of the United Nations. There exists in our territory, or rather, on the Iberian Peninsula, the only United Nations university, but the country does not know. And why doesn't the country know? It's simple, he doesn't know why he's not in Lisbon. We are all here against centralism, but as far as anything is not in Lisbon, despite the obvious importance of this organization, we do not know. We therefore call for the word to be understood that this Operational Unit is precisely about policy-oriented electronic governance, that is to say, to help the underdeveloped countries in electronic governance, and to realize that this unit has many students and many teachers and that it is located in Guimarães. It's not in the capital, but it's in the original capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u224	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u225	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the country does not know her, but she has to know and that is precisely what we used to say. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u226	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, is also inscribed to speak to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the various motions for resolutions under discussion on this point, it is important to highlight two. Of course, Resolution Proposal No 5 / XV / 1. a, concerning the Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement concluded between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the establishment, operation and location of the Operational Unit for Electronic Governance, oriented towards the policies of the United Nations University, in Guimarães. This agreement ensured the consolidation of the permanence of the only member institution of the United Nations in Portugal, in this case in the city of Guimarães, on the one hand, sedimenting Portugal's prominence in the area of electronic governance, on the other. Then on motion for a resolution No 6 / XV / 1. as regards the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, this Agreement aims to strengthen economic, commercial and investment relations between the European Union and Vietnam — the second largest trading partner of the European Union in ASEAN ( Association of Southeast Asian Nations ), shortly after Singapore. In terms of national interest, trade between Portugal and Vietnam will open the door to new opportunities for many Portuguese companies to find and diversify destination markets for their exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u229	And we really need our exports to diversify and expand. Two initiatives that clearly benefit the national interest. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u230	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Soares to speak by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The House today is called upon to decide on the Supplementary Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University to maintain precisely in Portugal, more specifically in Guimarães, the Operational Unit for Electronic Governance. This is one of the subjects in which, perhaps more than divisions, we must highlight a common axis, a backbone, the importance of this agreement for our country. I can agree that, perhaps not everyone will be aware of the existence of this organization in the world—more specifically, in Portugal and Guimarães—but the truth is that this organization is, in the specific context of the research of the international scientific system, an extremely important and recognized unit, which has contributed decisively to a global goal, which is the goal of digital transition and electronic governance. In addition to this global goal, Portugal, our country, has also allowed it to have, in this international context, affirmation and recognition of its role, for the work of the government, for the work of researchers, for the work of the University. And a very particular note for what it also represents in support of the development of least developed countries and in this context, in particular, of the support given to the countries of the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries). I leave a final note to reiterate our commitment — the commitment of the Socialist Party, the commitment of this Government to this objective and to what it means for a territory like Guimarães, the Braga District, for the Minor and also for the Country as a element of decision, of territorial cohesion and of decentralization of power. There are many researchers who have come to Portugal, there are many researchers who have stayed and who have moved to Guimarães and there are many researchers who, passing or staying here, also bear the name of Guimarães and the name of Portugal abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u232	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u233	I shall conclude, Mr President, by leaving a very special thanks to the United Nations, but also to the Government, the Director of the University and the Director of this Operational Unit for the work they have done, from a technical point of view and from the point of view of the promotion and affirmation of Portugal and Guimarães in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u234	To intervene, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u235	Mr President, we are called upon to pronounce ourselves on the Supplementary Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the University of the United Nations that will allow the continued operational unit of political-oriented governance in Guimarães. The Liberal Initiative will, of course, subscribe and support the continuity of this agreement and the conclusion of this Supplementary Agreement because it recognizes the importance of this institution for the country, for the region and for the city of Guimarães. With regard to this, I cannot fail to challenge this House that the measures that point to decentralization are very important for the territorial cohesion of the country, and that cannot be a mere intention, cannot be left simply by the words. I remember that the Liberal Initiative has, and will continue to have, a set of measures, which goes through public departments and services, no longer being 50 m from the Avenue da Liberdade in Lisbon, and can be distributed throughout the country, thus contributing to a harmonious growth. The Institute of Wine and Wine does not have to be in Lisbon, the IHRU ( Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation) does not have to be in Lisbon, Infarmed does not have to be in Lisbon. So if what we are discussing here today is an excellent example of what decentralization is, then let's go ahead, let's continue on this path and let's make Portugal receive departments, directions, public services. We will actually bet on this decentralization, because this is fundamental to the development of the country. [[Congratulations from the IL and PSD Member André Coelho Lima.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u236	The last speech on the motions for resolutions contained in this point belongs to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Paper, which has up to one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u237	Mr President, I welcome Guimarães and tell Mr André Coelho Lima that it is not necessary to be from Guimarães to accompany the work of the United Nations University in our country and in Guimarães for quite a long time. I asked for the word to speak of the investment protection agreement between the European Union, its Member States, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a country which has, among other things, the virtue of having received open arms in its academic history, our colleague Carlos Guimarães Pinto,... [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] ... that, I do not know if influenced by its liberal teaching, decided to accept that the arbitral courts—which generally favour the private—were included in the agreement with the European Union. This is a pity because it makes the European Union, which sets targets with Vietnam, for example of environmental policies, agree that European companies will bring Vietnam to court if they want to meet these goals. This agreement is also a missed opportunity to fight human rights abuses and labour rights violations in Vietnam, and that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u238	This concludes point four on the agenda. We shall proceed to the statutory votes and ask the services to open the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. Mrs Joana Cordeiro and Mr Rui Rocha signalled to the Bureau. It's a boycott of modern technologies, to the modern party! [[Pause.]] All right, I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and to advertise their results. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No. 293 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Alexandre Patrício Gouveia. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u239	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Alexandre Patrício Gouveia died last March 12, at the age of 70. Graduated in Business Management by the Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences of the Portuguese Catholic University of Lisbon, in 1977, manager, politician and commentator, he was head of the PSD, having been highlighted in the policy as deputy to Economic Affairs in the cabinet of the then Prime Minister Francisco Pinto Balsamão, between 1981 and 1983, and as deputy to the Cabinet of the Minister of Commerce and Tourism, Álvaro Barreto, between 1983 and 1984. With a course dedicated to public life, he chaired the Battle Foundation of Aljubarrota, whose work has valued this milestone of the history of Portugal, having spent over the last 20 years on the recovery and dissemination of the main battlefields associated with the War of Independence ( 1383 to 1432 ) and the War of Restoration ( 1640 to 1668 ) and in particular the Battle of Aljubarrota field, promoting the dissemination of historical events that marked the identity and independence of Portugal. Much of his life was still dedicated to deepening what happened in the tragic accident of Camarte, which took the life of Francisco Sá Carneiro, founder of the PSD, and also victimized his brother, Antonio Patrício Gouveia. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Alexandre Patrício Gouveia welcoming his civic journey and his contribution to public life and addressing to his relatives and friends his deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u241	Following the Vote Project No. 295 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of João Salgueiro. I ask Mrs Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « João Mauricio Fernandes Salgueiro died last February 17, at 88 years of age. Born in Braga in 1934, João Salgueiro graduated from the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences of the Technical University of Lisbon, currently ISEG, and graduated from Economic Planning and Public Accounts, by the Institute of Social Studies in The Hague, in the Netherlands. One of the most relevant economists in the last decades in Portugal, João Salgueiro was a remarkable citizen, with a recognized dedication to the public cause throughout his life, a respected and serious economist, always available to contribute to the reflection on the paths of the Portuguese economy. Advocate for Socio-Economic Development of the Country based on a market economy open to the outside world, was an active participant in the process of European integration. Several times called to the exercise of public functions, he always fulfilled them with intelligence, integrity and love of freedom. He was President of the National Development Bank and the General Deposit Box. He was also President of the National Scientific and Technological Research Board, Vice-Governor of Banco de Portugal and President of the Portuguese Banking Association. João Salgueiro was one of the founding members of the SEDES — the Association for Economic and Social Development, in 1970, having served as President of the Co-ordinator Council of this entity and several times as President of the General Assembly. He was President of the General Assembly of the Competitiveness Forum and was a member of the Economic and Social Council. He served as a teacher in a number of higher education institutions, having received the doctorate Honoris Causa from the University of New Lisbon, in 2017. He served as the Deputy Secretary of State for Planning between 1969 and 1971, and the Minister of State and Finance and the Plan in the VIII Constitutional Government, between 1981 and 1983. In the Third Parliament ( 1983 to 1985 ) he was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, elected by the Democratic Social Party, and chaired the Committee on Economics, Finance and Plan. He was thanked with the Great Cross of the Order of Christ in 2010 and with the Great Cross of the Order of the Child D. Henrique in 2021. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of João Salgueiro, conveying to his family and friends the most deeply moved condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u244	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u245	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u246	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CFP will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u247	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now move on to the Vote Project No. 297 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport and subscribed by a PSD Member ). I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last March 5, at 87 years of age, the poet and writer Antonio Salvado. Natural de Castelo Branco, graduated in Romanic Philology at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, and was also a French Government Fellow in Paris. Poet, scholar, professor, humanist and democrat, was still a student of the Faculty of Letters who published his first book of poems—The Flower and the Night—and then began to publish criticisms and articles of literary content in the Diário de Noticias and in other journals and magazines. He organized and edited, with Herberto Hélder, the Sheets of Poetry—review born today famously of young plastic artists and poets who gathered at Café Gelo in Lisbon. His unique work, inspired by Luís de Camões, but with references that go from Bocage, Almeida Garrett and Alexandre Herculano to Cesário Verde, Fernando Pessoa or Mário de Sá-Carneiro, Antonio Salvado has as thread the lead of his writing hope, although love and death are recurring themes, allying pain and anguish to the divine evokes. With a journey linked to Castelo Branco, his homeland, Antonio Salvado taught at the former National High School of Nuno Álvares and at the Higher School of Education of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco, and directed the Museum Francisco Tavares Proença Junior and the magazine Studies of Castelo Branco. The name of António Salvado was internationalizing, with the organization of colloquiums about his poetry, having a set of personalities edited two volumes of poems-homenage to himself, of the authorship of poets from almost all the world, to which they intentionally called The Extensive Continent. His entire work deserved many distinctions, with emphasis on the Degree of Commander of the Military Order of Sant 'Iago da Espada, with which he was thanked by the President of the Republic in 2010, the Medal of Cultural Merit of the Ministry of Culture, the degree of Doctor Honoris Cause by the University of Beira Interior ( 2016 ), the Fernando Chinaglia Prize / Cultural Personality ( 1980 ) of the Brazilian Union of Writers, and the Medal of Merit of the Pontifical University of Salamanca ( 1986 ). Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays a deserved tribute to the memory of Antonio Salvado as well as to his dedication to poetry and culture, conveying to his family and friends his sympathies. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u249	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask everyone to follow me in a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will now move on to the Vote Project No. 298 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L ) — Greetings by the centenary of Celeste Rodrigues. I ask Mrs Joana Sá Pereira to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On March 14, the centenary of the birth of Celeste Rodrigues is celebrated, one of the great figures of the fairy. Celeste Rodrigues was born in the Fundão, in a poor family, who moved to Lisbon, to the neighborhood of Alcântara, when he was 5 years old. From a family of musicians, his voice was discovered when he sang, by joke, in the Mesquita wine cellar. Having as a fairy godmother his sister, Amália, who placed the black shawl on her shoulders, star-CL-ia-se, in 1945, at the Café Casablanca ( current ABC Theatre) in the Mayer Park. In the 1950s, Celeste Rodrigues was already very well known. It integrates the list of fado houses such as A Viela (from which she owned), the Parreirinha de Alfama or the Taverna do Embuçado. Celeste Rodrigues led the castiço fado to great world stages, such as the Concertgebouw, in Amsterdam, the Carnegie Hall, in New York, or the Cité de la Musique, in Paris. In 2012, she was distinguished by the President of the Republic with the rank of Commander of the Infant Order D. Henrique. Celeste Rodrigues died on 1 August 2018, at the age of 95, without the Assembly of the Republic, at the time of the interrupted work, he could express his sorrow. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the commemoration of the centenary of the birth of Celeste Rodrigues, paying tribute to this greater figure of the fairy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the relatives present as well as the Director of the Fairy Museum. [[General applause.]] We shall continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 181 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government preserve and value the Park of Generations as a fundamental axis of a national strategy for the development and promotion of skate. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS and CH.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 249 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generations Park as equipment of public interest in order to prevent its destruction. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS and CH.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 470 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of the Generation Park as equipment of public interest. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS and CH.]] We also vote, in general, on the Resolution Project No 511 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generation Park as equipment of public interest. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CH.]] Down to 12. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 512 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Rescue of the Generation Park. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS and CH.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 303 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government recognise Russia as a'sponsor of international terrorism'. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u253	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u254	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that the PSD bench will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u255	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u256	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u257	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u258	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u259	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u260	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u261	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u262	Mr President, it is to inform that I myself will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u263	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 407 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishment of an international special court for crimes committed in the war of Ukraine. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and votes against the CFP.]] Low to 2. the Commission. We also have the general vote on draft resolution No 467 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government support the process of setting up a special criminal court to investigate and judge the war crimes perpetrated by Russia in the invasion of Ukraine. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] Low to 2. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 468 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government condemn Russia's eco-accident in Ukraine and support international initiatives to ensure the repair of the environmental destruction caused. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] This project goes down to 2. the Commission. The PS informs that, with regard to this vote, it will make an oral statement at the end of the voting period. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u264	Mr President, I am sorry, we will present an oral vote on draft resolution No 471 / XV / 1. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u265	The reference of the Bureau to draft resolution No 468 / XV / 1. a (PAN), but let's relax in seeing the parliamentary leader of the PS attentive and satisfied with yesterday's London emotions. [[Laughing.]] We therefore proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 471 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Supports and welcomes the decision of the President of the Republic of Great Colar of the Order of Freedom to the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] The project goes down to 1. the Commission. On this project — yes, there will now be an oral vote by the PS at the end of the voting period. Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor, I suppose to inform you that the CFP will make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u266	Mr President, we shall indeed present a declaration of vote in writing, but with regard to the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u267	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote, in general, the Bill No 562 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ( amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] We will also vote in general on Bill No. 563 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the general scheme for the protection of offenders, which transposed Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who report violations of Union law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceeded to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members for a 60-day vote of Bill No 358 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens and clarifys the impediments and mechanisms for preventing conflicts of interest applicable to holders of political and high public positions by amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project therefore falls to 14. the Commission. We then, in general, vote on Bill No. 613 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Combats the « rotating doors » between political positions and economic groups by strengthening the regime for preventing the exercise of positions in private undertakings by holders of executive political positions and their sanctioning regime by amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 2019. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PS and the PSD.]] This project is down to 14. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 614 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the penalty framework provided for in Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ( Legal regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 625 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of environmental crime complainants by amending Law No 93 / 2021 of 20 December. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We are now following the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Establishment of the Operational Unit for Electronic Governance of the United Nations University in Guimarães, signed in Lisbon on 26 July 2021. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH and IL, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u268	Mrs Paula Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u269	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u270	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Rui Tavares, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u271	Mr President, it is to announce that we will also present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u272	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I now put to the overall vote motion for a resolution No 7 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between Portugal and Spain on Fisheries in the International Miinho River. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP and BE and with abstentions from PAN and L.]] We then have the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the 2018 Amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 9 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L and the abstention from the NAP.]] We continue with the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 10 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the 2014 Amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 413 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national environmental education strategy 2030. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] This project goes down to 8.The Commission. In general, we now vote on draft resolution No 439 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Review the National Environmental Education Strategy and create activities cores in all school groups. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the BE.]] The project goes down to 8.The Commission. We then proceeded to the vote on a request by the IL, asking the Committee on Environment and Energy to be discharged without a 60-day vote of draft resolution No 336 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — by the installation of desalination plants in the Alentejo and in the West. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project goes down to 11. the Commission. We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 376 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The installation of desalination plants with planning, foundation and transparency. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, CH, IL, BE and L and abstentions of the CFP and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No. 400 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Identification of water resources and desalination solution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN and L.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 321 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Solutions that ensure water management in rational terms and optimized through the "Water Tomato in Pomarão" in the Guadiana River. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 458 / XV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of an extraordinary support line to the damage caused by heat waves in agriculture and the rural population. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the PS, CH and BE and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, on the Proposal for a Law No 53 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The essential elements of the rate associated with the provision of postal services are implemented. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS and PSD, votes against IL and L and abstentions against CH, the CFP, BE and the NAP.]] We therefore end the voting period. We then have an oral vote by the Socialist Party on draft resolution No 471 / XV / 1. a ( PAN). To that end, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has voted in favour of this draft resolution to underline the continued support we give to the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian authorities in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u274	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u275	So the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wanted to show once again what we believe to be a great unity, a great consensus—with some exceptions, it is true! — on the support we give to the Ukrainians and, in particular, to the Ukrainian authorities. However, we would like to stress - it seems to us a bad practice - that this House has legislative functions and also a set of resolution instruments, to recommend to the Government, above all, that it is controlled and that it depends on this Assembly of the Republic - to vote draft resolutions supporting or greeting other sovereignty bodies and, in particular, initiatives by the President of the Republic, within the framework of its exclusive powers. We therefore wanted to point out that our vote in favour should not be confused with the practice of resolution. There are other instruments for this Parliament to support not only President Zelenskyy, but also the Ukrainian people. In our view, this resolution instrument — although it has been accepted by the Bureau — is a very bad tool for us to support it. This decision is an exclusive decision of the President of the Republic and should not bind Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u276	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has entered the Bureau, a request for an inquiry on the conduct of the work. This request will be original because the work is almost completed, however, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u277	Anyway, I shall be brief, Mr President. I would just like to clarify Mr Eurico Brillante Dias and ask for the distribution of the initial proposal of the NAP, which did not aim to congratulate Mr President of the Republic on the decision taken but, before, recommended the adoption of this recommendation for the award of the Grand Cear — a competence expressly provided for in the law and also conferred on Mr Ex. President of the Assembly of the Republic. Having regard to the position of the President of the Republic on this matter, since it was already exceeded, and in view of the international context, the initiative has been amended and we therefore request its distribution. However, we are very surprised that so many PS Members have not realized that in this case there were two versions of the same proposal. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u278	Mrs Carla Castro asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u279	Mr President, I just wanted to inform you that I just couldn't make the electronic record.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u280	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Ofélia Ramos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u281	Mr President, it is for the same purpose because I cannot record my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u282	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I always call on you. Members who are unable to register their presence that answer my question "Has anyone not been able to register? Do not keep on seeking. ” I suppose Mrs Raquel Ferreira asks for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u283	I confirm, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-17.u284	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We are thus finishing our work today. The next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 22 March, with two debates with the Prime Minister. The first debate will be on general policy and the second preparatory session of the European Council. I wish everyone a good weekend. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 13 hours and 36 minutes.]]
