ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have quorum and all parliamentary groups properly represented, so the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We don't have a file today, so we can get on the agenda now. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are going to settle down, so that we can start our work. The first item on the agenda is the general assessment of the Bill No 59 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directives ( EU ) 2022 / 211 and ( EU ) 2022 / 228 concerning the protection of personal data. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice Jorge Alves Costa has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The approval by the European Union of the data protection package, which includes Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection, repression of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data, has led the European Commission to review previously adopted legal acts including provisions governing the processing of personal data by competent authorities. This review aimed to assess the need to harmonise these Union legal acts with the directive I cited and to present, where appropriate, legislative proposals necessary for the amendment of such acts in order to ensure a coherent approach to data protection. The Framework Decision on Joint Research Teams and the European Criminal Investigation Decision Directive have therefore been identified as amending. The core of these two instruments is the processing, exchange and subsequent use of relevant information for the purposes of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Therefore, for reasons of consistency and effectiveness in data protection, the processing of such elements in these two instruments should also comply with the provisions of Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680. For example, it should be possible for the personal data contained in the information legitimately obtained by a joint investigation team to be processed for purposes other than those for which the team was created, for example, in the case of subsequent criminal procedures, administrative or civil procedures, or even in the case of related parliamentary scrutiny, what happens in some Member States. However, in any of the above hypotheses, the use of data should take place in accordance with the conditions laid down in Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680, from the outset by observing the terms of Union law and in particular by meeting the principles of necessity and proportionality, paying attention to the purpose of the case. It was in this context that Framework Decision 2002 / 465 / JHA, of the Council, 2002 setting up joint research teams, and Directive ( EU ) 2014 / 41, which creates the European Research Decision, were amended in accordance with the new data protection package with regard exclusively to harmonisation with the Union data protection rules. In this way, domestic law must now be adjusted to the new regulation of the Union, which the Government promotes through this bill. Thus, paying attention to the proposed articulation, the new wording introduced with the new paragraph 9, added to Article 145. -A of Law No 144 / 99 of 31 August, the Law on Judicial Cooperation, ensures, in line with Directive ( EU ) 2002 / 211, that the information legitimately obtained by members of joint investigation teams during the exercise of their activity—in particular, information which is not otherwise accessible to the competent authorities of the States which have highlighted them and which may be used, by prior authorisation of the Ministry of Justice, for the purpose of detecting, investigating and introducing judicial proceedings for other offences; information in which it is concerned to avoid serious and immediate threat to public security if criminal proceedings are subsequently instituted; or information for other purposes, provided that there is agreement of the States which have created the team — where such information includes personal data can only be processed under Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680. That is the guarantee that is contained in the framework of domestic law in this particular area. It is also proposed that Article 8 (2) be repealed. the Act No 88 / 2017, which transposes the European Research Decisions Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 228 into the internal legal order. However, in fact, and how the legal framework of the Union has changed and Article 8 ( 1 ). that of Law No 88 / 2017 already reflects relevant Union instruments, in particular the material directive, Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680, it is considered appropriate to repeal paragraph 2 of that Article. in this respect, the Government's proposal for a law fulfils, in our view, the conditions necessary for the Portuguese State to comply with the deadline for transposition of these directives, fixed on 11 and 14 March of this year, 2023, dates which are already very close, calling on this House to adopt appropriate procedures for the urgent adoption of this bill. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are convinced that you will find, in discussion of the speciality, the best solutions to the present proposal and taking into account, in particular, opinions already issued by entities consulted by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u3	In order to ask for clarification, a Member of Parliament, to whom I shall give the floor, bearing in mind that the Secretary of State has, at the end, two minutes and can take advantage of it to answer. You have the floor, then, to make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u4	The Bureau is a witness that I, even before the intervention of the Secretary of State, had already intended to clarify some of the aspects of this bill, and hence my request. It wasn't an artiman to try to get ahead of the interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u5	Sometimes they do! They're pros in handicrafts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u6	Mr Secretary of State, there is a matter which, in the explanation to a very deep extent from a technical point of view, which in the presentation of the initiative is not explained and to which the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) drew attention and which is the following: the inclusion of a new paragraph 10 to Article 145. o -A. It says the National Data Protection Commission that this amendment does not result from the transposition of any directive, which cannot achieve — and we do not — the proposed objective, because it also makes references to laws that are already repealed. From this point of view, this is a proposal for a law to be quite short, quite inaccurate, in which a new number was added in this article, without being aware of its scope and its objective, I believe it was important that Mr. Secretary of State could give this information to this House, and hence my initial request for clarification in order to have that information. Not having the Secretary of State time to respond now and do so in the end, allow me, then, some considerations on the content of the bill. This initiative generally responds to the need to safeguard the sharing of data and to ensure that there is consistency in the whole European structure of safeguarding personal data, makes the transposition of these principles into Portuguese law, and we have nothing against that. Theoretically, it seems to us that it gives us greater coordination and greater consistency from that point of view, but there is one problem that, I believe, is deeper than that, and that is the following: the whole right of the Union and the whole relationship within the Union comes from a assumption that often it is not putting itself, which is the assumption that the rule of law is also respected in all States, and we have doubts about it. I give you the concrete example of Hungary. We know that, there, the extreme right likes to hit Hungary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u7	Well! To Venezuela, don't beat us!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u8	Not North Korea! In Korea you're beating!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u9	... but this is one of the States that does not meet the fundamental principles of respect for freedoms and safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens. We know that there is here—and I hope that we will confirm at least these assumptions—some safeguards in data sharing, because they always depend on the authorization of the Ministry of Justice, and this is important, but then, sometimes, we do not know where they may end, what the data are and how they can be used. Mr. Secretary of State will say that this is in the process of criminal investigation, so someone who is suspected of a crime that is being investigated. But we already have other examples in history, in which sometimes there are crimes that are excuses for persecuting people, for wanting to condemn the exercise of their civic rights and, from this point of view, here is the concern. I would like that if the Secretary of State could address this in his final speech, he would. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u10	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We will also focus on some aspects that have been addressed here. The legislative initiative submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic is intended to comply with the obligation to transpose into the internal legal order Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 228 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 211 of the European Parliament and of the Council, both of 16 February 2022, with regard to their harmonisation in the protection of personal data by amending the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters adopted by Law No 144 / 1999, and by Law No 88 / 2017, which approved the legal regime for the issue, transmission, recognition and enforcement of European criminal investigation decisions. In this respect, we cannot fail to raise a few points, which will, under circumstances, have an opportunity to clarify at the end of this debate. We therefore draw attention to the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, particularly with regard to the addition of a new paragraph 10 to Article 145. o -A of Law No 144 / 99. Since this provision provides that the processing, security, preservation, access and protection of personal data processed under this Act shall apply to Law No 34 / 2009 as well as Law No 58 / 2019, CNPD points out that this new legal provision does not stem from Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 211, which is transposed or understood as the objective. In addition, first of all, the processing of personal data arising from Law No 144 / 99 is therefore applicable to Law No 59 / 2019, which transposes the LED Directive, precisely in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. It also states that the reference to Law No 58 / 2019, which implements Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679, does not appear to be appropriate, for the data processing in question is excluded from its scope pursuant to Article 2 ( 1 ). the, which, in turn, refers to the exclusions made in the GDPR ( General Data Protection Regulation ), in Article 2. the, being particularly relevant to the exclusion of data processing carried out by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection and suppression of criminal offences. The need for reference to Law No 34 / 2009 is also stressed, since, like Law No 59 / 2019, it incorporates the national legal system and is therefore applicable, and Law No 59 / 2019 itself is listed in Article 68. the, the situations in which the application of Law No. 34 / 2009 occurs in the specific context of the criminal proceedings. In view of this — and not being able to understand also why the government goes further than what the directive itself implies — the CFP considers that there is a need not only for further clarification, but also for greater weighting and correction, in the field of expertise, of some errors of reference, in detail, which are pointed out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u12	In order to speak in the debate, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The protection of personal data is currently one of the main concerns regarding the data trail that we leave when we use the Internet, commonly called « digital fingerprint », and which reveals many millions of data. What these data reveal about us, about our lives, who can have access to them and the risks inherent to their disclosure are concerns that we have and that we cannot neglect. It is therefore important to mitigate these risks of disclosure without the consent of the data themselves and also legally guarantee the right to forget, as the Arrival proposes in its draft constitutional review.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u15	This right implies that each person may request that data and references relating to himself be deleted, even from the Internet. This gains particular relevance in an increasingly digital society dependent on new technologies. If it is true that technological advances have benefits, such as allowing short distances, for example, it is also true that they allow new forms of abuse and almost instantaneous dissemination of information by thousands of people. New times bring new challenges, often taking the form of violence, so the legislator is also required to be able to respond to new problems in society. However, there must be a balance with the need to protect other fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u16	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u17	See the recent case of Tankos, which has now led the court to annul part of the judgment in the first instance, because of the use of evidence based on metadata. This may eventually lead to absolutions. It is important to legislate as soon as possible so that such cases do not occur again, that the right to security should be combined with the right to privacy and confidentiality of communications. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Paula Cardoso.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u18	They want to make friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u19	Nor can we have a blanket of legal cuts like the one we have in this area. And it is not conceivable that telecommunications companies can preserve metadata to charge their customers, but that such access is restricted to judicial authorities for the purpose of investigating serious crimes, often in situations of life or death. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The two directives which this bill intends to transpose approve the legal regime of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the legal regime of the issue, transmission, recognition and enforcement of European criminal investigation decisions, with a view to making specific amendments to the legal acts of the European Union adopted earlier. The amendment proposed by the Government is to determine that information legitimately obtained by the members of the joint investigation teams is processed in accordance with Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680, and to provide that, for the processing, security, preservation, access and protection of personal data, the law establishing the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system must be transposed by 11 and 14 March, which is very difficult to achieve. However, the control of the GDPR was entrusted to the National Data Protection Commission, which decided on the proposed law and transmitted some perplexities on how the Government transposed Directives ( EU ) 2022 / 211 and ( EU ) 2022 / 218. Among other considerations, the National Data Protection Commission indicates that the wording of the standard itself is incorrect, from a terminology point of view, for the reasons explained here. Secondly, the National Data Protection Commission alerts that there is reference to the previous law on the protection of personal data, currently repealed, and to some conceptual confusion that should be clarified. We believe that, in the field of expertise, and with the help of the opinions of the Higher Council of the Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Order of Lawyers, which will certainly arrive soon, these difficulties can be overcome and the law approved. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u20	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pleasure to have people watching our works in the galleries, and to all welcome. But allow me a special highlight to a group of students from Panama who study at the Polytechnic Institute of Leiria and who are attending our work, since, with them, they are representatives of the Panama Embassy in Lisbon, which I greet, and since this is an activity developed by our Parliamentary Group of Friends with Panama. Welcome. [[General applause, having CH Members applauded standing.]] I now give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a government law, according to its explanatory statement, is related to the personal data obtained by the criminal investigation teams. Unfortunately, in Portugal, this data will certainly not be met, the result of the inertia of the three successive governments of the Socialist Party, which were unable to solve this problem in eight years of governance. Moreover, we are all reminded that the previous Minister of Justice stated, even in 2015, only one year after the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, that Law No 32 / 2008 was fully in conformity with...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u22	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u23	... the same law that was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and that civil society agents have already denounced, at least since 2017, but that the government, as its habit, decided to ignore. Worse than ignoring and worse than not knowing was knowing and nothing to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u25	As the Liberal Initiative denounced at the beginning of this legislature in 2021, during Portugal's presidency in the Council of the European Union, this Government coordinated work in Brussels on this subject, but did nothing in Portugal. The Government of the Socialist Party already knew fully the European case-law on this matter, and so I already knew — or should know — that Portuguese law violated both European law and fundamental rights of Portuguese citizens. But as he presides over the European Union, with vanity and expenditure, at events with which this government has embarrassed our country, in Portugal, what did the Government of the Socialist Party do to resolve the situation of the metadata? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u26	Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u27	And if today we are plunged into legal chaos, in which we have a judicial system that cannot use evidence essential to the realization of justice, in which we have a real crisis in our rule of law—no, I do not use this mild expression, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — this is due to the inertia of successive governments of the Socialist Party, which do not serve the Portuguese and that all they can do is leave them much worse than they were in 2015 when they came to the government. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u28	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u29	Ex. Mr. President, Ex. Mr. Secretary of State : Freedom, security and justice, fundamental rights of the citizen, must be effectively guaranteed. Therefore, they call on the Member States of the European Union to cooperate effectively between their police forces, customs authorities and others, which we commonly call 'criminal investigation teams'. Therefore, we are dealing here with a coherent and effective approach, within the framework of the protection of personal data, which includes those obtained by these joint criminal investigation teams. These directives basically say that personal data obtained legitimately by an investigation team may be used for a different purpose or other than that for which they were collected, in accordance with certain circumstances. These circumstances are those listed and which say that it is possible, provided that the controller is authorized to treat them in accordance with European Union law and that the treatment is adjusted and proportionate to its purpose. This is basically the objective of the Government's proposed law, i.e. to do so in two ways: by intervening in the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which is Law No 144 / 99 of 31 August, by adding new numbers dealing with joint criminal cooperation teams, and by intervening in Law No 88 / 2017 of 21 August approving the legal regime for the issuance, transmission, recognition and enforcement of European criminal investigation decisions, repealing Article 8 (2). the, which today determines that access to personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or criminal repression or enforcement of criminal penalties is restricted, only having access to those who are duly authorized. Nothing to oppose as to the need to adapt and harmonise our legislation to the directives in question here. The only critical aspect to be pointed out is the fact that Law No 34 / 2009 of 14 July establishes the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system for which Article 145 ( 10 ) is referred. o -A of Law No 144 / 99, be largely disadjusted from GDPR. And in order to complete this development, the Government does not merely refer the treatment, security, conservation, access and protection to that law, but also to the law that ensures the enforcement in the national legal order of the GDPR. It is in some way clear that the Government felt the need to make this cosmetic to fill a delay in the review of the data law of the judicial system, which is clearly imputable to it. [[PSD applause.]] Needless to recall the urgent need to adapt this Law No 34 / 2009, which establishes the regime applicable to data processing, to the general system of GDPR. In the previous legislature, the Minister of Justice, Dr. Francisca Van Dunem, said that the Government would resume its proposal to amend the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system, but the fact is that it did not. And this proposal, which saw the light here in the XIII Legislation, which was Law Proposal No 126 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ), which amended the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system, was vetoed on 26 July 2019 by the President of the Republic, having expired with the end of the legislature. But, already in that proposal, the Government itself argued and proposed to introduce a set of guarantees to ensure the high level of protection of personal data within the judicial system, where particular concern was needed with the circulation of information in the context of the processing of proceedings in various instances and by different entities. These guarantees are especially appropriate to the need to ensure the absence of any kind of interference or misuse in the exercise of the functions of the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office. And he added that it was necessary to clarify the role of each entity, distinguishing its responsibilities with regard to the protection of personal data collected and processed in judicial proceedings. And this is where, in this clear role it has to fit each entity, which is the mismatch between law and GDPR. Who handles the data? We know that in the law it is not even clear that judges can be responsible for the processing of this type of data and, therefore, these directives will always bring with them the need to review the law of the data of the judicial system. It also concluded by saying that this amendment should enable us to better distinguish the role of each of these entities, which is essential for us to have a perfectly clear personal data law. These needs have long been identified by the government, and so it is necessary to question the Government, the Secretary of State, about when it will resume this matter in order to adapt Law No 34 / 2009 to GDPR. The PSD considers that this proposal lacks corrections and refinements in the field of specialty, taking into account, inter alia, suggestions that have been given and weaknesses that have been pointed out by the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, but, in the case of specialty, it is available to make the necessary improvements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u30	To speak in the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter, when moving into legislation that may have to do with data protection, requires greater caution and caution. On the one hand, you have to take into account the difficult weights between privacy, but on the other, also the security and pursuit of justice. In fact, it is enough to see recent cases—not only of national security matters, such as Tanks, or cases that have generated social alarm, with the risk of challenging pedophilia crime investigation processes—to realize that there are two interests in demand and in conflict, which must necessarily be harmonised. The Government's proposal seems to us that, to a certain extent, it has no such caution as is required in this matter. If, on the one hand, the proposal goes well when clarifying the provisions of the LED Directive, it loses its foot as regards Article 145 ( 10 ). o -A, which does not transpose any directive, has an inadequate legislative referral and still uses wrong terminology and which does not even seem necessary. Therefore, at this stage, the NAP will not support this initiative, but we are available to make our contributions in the field. We hope that the Government and the PS will also be available to correct this matter within the scope of the speciality, particularly as regards paragraphs 9 and 10. Article 145. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u32	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u33	For what? What does he realize about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u34	Mr President, good afternoon to all: this proposal for a government law that we are discussing today does not appear to be torn apart, it is part of a path that the European Union has made for a long time. It begins with the entry into force of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 16 thereof. the, which then leads to the General Data Protection Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 680, which accompanied it. Now, it is about updating, at the level of procedures, also from the point of view of criminal investigation and police cooperation, the whole bottle, the fact that it has become higher and that it has put Europe, in some way, at a point of view, with regard to the processing of data in the world. For now, I would like to point out that we are discussing the transposition of a directive within the deadline, which, I believe, is the first time in this Parliament, but, as other representatives of parties present here, I wonder about the need to add to the directive the reference that is made to national law, in Article 145 ( 10 ). o -A. We hope to hear these clarifications, which are important for the formation of the opinion of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u35	You now have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The matter that brings us to the House today is another piece in the difficult task of improving the galaxy of personal data legislation. Indeed, the transformation of recent decades, in particular the last one, has had a significant impact on the European Union. Both the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation and the directives and consequent national legislation issued in this field are of increasing importance in the context of life in society and the use and risks associated with the sharing and processing of personal data. But — I wanted to start there — this is still not a debate about this whole galaxy; it is a specific debate about a constellation in this galaxy, about a particular aspect of this galaxy. I could not begin, precisely for that reason, without welcoming the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the PSD, the PAN and the Free Party for having discussed what we are discussing: this transposition of the directive and this matter. Indeed, it is a lack of respect for the House — and here I address very directly to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz — to take advantage of the agenda on one subject to make criminal populism on another. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u37	Talk about you, don't talk about the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u38	In fact, there is undoubtedly a problem with metadata legislation. It is a problem for the Portuguese Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Italian Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany. All Member States of the European Union, on this subject of metadata, have the same problem, which is the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. All these States — not necessarily those who have already made unfavourable decisions, but several of them have already had unfavourable decisions about their legislation, which has sought, at the internal level, to safeguard the way criminal investigation accesses metadata — are faced precisely with the same problem as the Portuguese Republic. And the Portuguese Republic had indeed legislation which, at a certain reading of European case law, was considered valid and consistent, but recent decisions, both at European and at national level, have come to the contrary. The dilemma this House has faced a few months ago, since the decision has been known, since it was necessary to resume the issue, has been about how we will be able to overcome what none of the 26 other Member States has so far managed to overcome. It is a difficult, legally complex task and therefore we should avoid criminal demagogy on the subject, as the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival today unfortunately did at this plenary session. [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u39	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u40	I had to talk about Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u41	A little while ago I forgot, I'm so sorry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, to mention that the arrival makes criminal populism, but I think we all know what it does. They don't miss that element. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, they did, because this transposition involves important matters. For example, I easily hand over to palmatory and recognize the fair criticisms the Democratic Social Party pointed out, with regard to the delay in the transposition or updating of the matter on other adaptation, in this case of Law No 34/2009, to this matter. There was a veto of Mr. President of the Republic in 2019 when the package that was approved, not only the law implementing the GDPR, such as the law on criminal investigation, was approved. The one who regulates the data of the judicial system, which Mr. President has vetoed, is still missing. Unfortunately, the next legislation, which was that of the pandemic, did not allow to begin and complete these works. But it's a missing part. And I am doing exactly the same interpretation as Mrs Paula Cardoso. That is why — and perhaps that is what should be explained to the CNPD, if we want — is that, with caution, the Government refers, in the proposal, the GDPR, despite this matter. But what we are trying to be careful about is that the principles that are laid down there must also take place in the application until this matter is clarified. I am not going to mention the maximal Latin "what abounds is not harmful" — I say - in Portuguese, i.e. to put this additional caution in the law is a matter which we can discuss in the specialty, but I would preserve until we do that overhaul, and there are many subjects that can be improved in the specialty work, as has already been said. Once again, a small precision: the outdated reference we have in Law No 88 / 2017 is not introduced by this diploma, it remains in paragraph 3 of the amended standard, because that, yes, still refers to the previous data protection legislation. One more thing we can, and we must correct in the field of expertise. This parliamentary group has full availability, and we hope that all political forces, and not only those that have done so today, will also accompany this specialized work that we have the opportunity to do. It is a diploma that is not particularly complex, it is short and fast-paced. The challenge we already have in the metadata is much more complicated and should also seek to mobilize the entire House, but with knowledge not only of the technical complexity, but of what is actually being treated at every moment in each debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u42	For an intervention in the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u43	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, your concept of political freedom sometimes seems a little strange to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u44	It's true! Look, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u45	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was most lacking in defining the script of the Liberal Initiative in parliamentary debates. That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u46	That's all I needed! He likes it, he likes it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u47	I know it hurts him to hear some things we have to say, but that's what was missing...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u48	It's life! It's life!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u49	I know that you very much like the legal technique, but we want to come here and talk about politics, and the technique we leave it for the specialty. Here, in the first instance, there is politics. I know that the state in which the Socialist Party has left justice and criminal investigation is bad and that it costs you, but we are here to talk about politics, which is what we want to talk about. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u50	They want to make friends! It's to save Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u51	In the meantime, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has signed up to take advantage of the remaining 3 seconds. It will exercise this right with great resource savings. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u52	Mr President, first of all, the Liberal Initiative is free to say what to understand and criticise how to understand, just as this bench is free to point out criminal populism when it identifies it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So everyone enjoying their freedom at most. in this debate, and this is the mistake in which Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, there is a political dimension that does not divulge from the technical dimension. We cannot debate a transposition of directives, which mobilizes hundreds of thousands of pages of doctrine and jurisprudence, and realize that there is no legal issue and talk about another matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u53	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u54	This is what I am critical of and this criticism I repeat: they have failed the call in this debate, not talking about the subject under discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u55	This is not the Long Mouse or the SIC (Independent Society of Communication)! This is the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u56	In the closing period of the debate, this is permitted...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u57	That's all I needed! This isn't Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u58	This isn't North Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u59	He's got the mania. It's the same thing in the commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u60	... has the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Jorge Alves Costa, who will do the favor of getting up very slowly, so that the souls return to normal. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's theme was to know where Portugal should meet — and it is not a matter of being a good student — an obligation for European legislation. We have Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680, which is somehow an upgrade to the issue of data protection. In reply to Mr Filipe Soares, precisely because not all States have the same standard of data protection, it is necessary that the directive at the level of the European Union be transposed into all the internal rights of each Member State. This guarantees us the minimum level so that we can live together at the level of criminal investigations. The joint research teams and the European research decision are not today, they are already many years old. There is now this increase in the strengthening of the rights of citizens involved in these investigations — defendants, witnesses, victims — who see their status as citizens, let us say that, increased in relation to data protection. I think that Portugal is a good example on the issue of data protection: we have a robust legal-constitutional framework on this subject; we have a National Independent Data Protection Commission; we have data protection officers, and we are talking only about criminal investigation, in the Judicial Police, in the Superior Magistracy Council, in the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. So we have a very efficient control structure and mechanism. With regard to very specific issues which have been raised and, above all, with regard to the addition of Article 145 ( 10 ). the -A, I recognise since this is a proposal — and that is why it is a proposal — that this House will then evaluate to discuss in detail, as I have just said in my initial speech. It's the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have the final word about what will remain in the future law, if this House so approves. Paragraph 10 may, eventually, be an excessive zeal, we recognize, because we have also seen the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, which has four major points: it agrees, disagrees, agrees with proposals for amendments. Therefore, we cannot just limit our vision to one aspect of this opinion and say that paragraph 10 may not eventually be necessary. Surely, in terms of discussion in the specialty, you will find the best solutions for this proposal. This proposal is necessary because it is necessary to strengthen the status of all those involved in criminal investigations, but as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said in a restricted world, it has to do with judicial cooperation in international terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u62	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u63	So we're not talking about everything. We are talking about this, because international judicial cooperation is basically a new type of European criminal procedure and often there is no identity of procedural statutes for all the defendants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u64	Mrs. Members, let us say goodbye to the members of the government and move on to the second item on our agenda, in which we will, as a whole, appreciate the Drafts of Law Nos 285 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the contribution to the audiovisual, lowering the bill of electricity of the Portuguese and 39 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the law approving the model of financing the public broadcasting and television service in order to change the conditions for charging the audiovisual contribution. To present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Audiovisual contribution is an aberration. It was already an aberration, but in this context of very high electricity bills that the Portuguese have to face every month is even more aberration, especially when the Government finds that the most deprived need a reduction in VAT (tax on value added) which is worth 1 € per month and the equally deprived continue to have to pay 3 € per month of an audiovisual contribution that no one already knows very well for what it is spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u67	But the aberration had already come before, because this VAC (Audiovisual Contribution) is all less a fee and call it contribution is just a euphemistic way not to call it tax. It's just that it's not any tax; it's the most regressive tax Portugal has, because it's not even a single rate, it's a single value. It is a regression tax which means that, at least one person wins, the higher the rate of this tax, this contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u69	Then, CAV is aberrant from the point of view of economic logic, because it is the main source of RTP revenue ( Radio and Television of Portugal ) and varies very little over the years. Whatever the audience, RTP gets the same. Whatever the RTP cost or expenditure project, it receives the same. Therefore, it is not surprising that RTP2 has a quota of less than 1 % in the said hertzian emissions, or that RTP3 has a quota of less than 1 % in the cabled emissions. So there's no incentive. When the revenue source of any other target is switched off, there is no incentive to do better, there is no incentive to spend less and there is no incentive to innovate. We're in 2023, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer only Hertzian television, no more cable television. There are streaming services, there are video sites, there are video applications, there are a thousand and one ways people take their time when they want to consume television. We are all competing for the same time as people's vision and the same advertising market. And it is ironic that the main opponents of the abolition of the audiovisual contribution are the left parties, increasingly trapped in the past, and private televisions, who see in the abolition of the audiovisual contribution a prenunciation of what RTP should do, which was to compete freely in the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u71	It is therefore shown here that IL defends taxpayers, no longer defends taxes; it defends competition; it does not defend duopolies of private televisions, which are protected from competition. The audiovisual contribution must end! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u72	To intervene in the debate, introducing the draft law of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the RTP, its Board of Directors and, in particular, its President, Nicolau Santos, for the warm and attentive manner in which he received yesterday the visit of the group of Members, advisors and services of the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport. For many, it will have been the first time they entered a television station. For me, he went to visit a house and find old friends with whom I worked. Yesterday's visit allows me to reaffirm, with conviction, that Portugal needs RTP, and the Arrival defends RTP. We believe in the importance of the public radio and television service, but we obviously require quality, independent, impartial and sustainable service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u75	As a conservative party we are, we protect the economic liberalism from the ultra-liberal advances that gnaw the economic freedom that some people defend. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We well know that the Liberal Initiative moves according to the fetishes and dogmas of the ciphers and profit, and these values are higher than the person for the IL. The arrival will always say 'no' to any attempt to gentrification coming from the right canhot or left left.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u77	On the other hand, the Liberal Initiative focuses solely on niches that pass through the most in, cooler and fashionable areas of large urban centers, where there are no lines that separate the Left Block from the Liberal Initiative or Rui Rocha Mortagua. He's already looking at Portugal as a whole. It defends the interior and the rural world and does not forget the importance of RTP for territorial cohesion, and it is its public service that ensures information areas, in regional and local terms, that no body ensures, as well as the connection to the 5 million Portuguese scattered by the four corners of the world, not forgetting the connection to the Lusophony. [[Congrats from the CH.]] My gentlemen, this is social justice, something that the Liberal Initiative party does not know. The proposal that you come here today is a liberal proposal — don't be scared! I would like to explain: we really want to alleviate the electricity bills of Portuguese—because, as you know, it is through the electricity suppliers that the audiovisual contribution is currently charged—and we propose that they become the suppliers of electronic communications services packages to cover. So, on the one hand, we relieve taxpayers. On the other hand, anyone who decides whether or not to acquire electronic communications services may or may not be subject to this rate, taking into account the exemptions present and which we also intend to extend.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u79	To simply end with the CAV at the moment is to destroy and kill RTP and its public service, and it is also an attack on democracy. We defend a public radio and television service that offers programmatic content worthy of our history, worthy of our almost millennium nation. We defend an RTP free from dark interests and pressures and that it does not subject itself to the left global agendas. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u80	Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative seeks, with the draft law currently under discussion, to eliminate the contribution to the audiovisual bill of electricity, repealing Law No. 30 / 2003 of 22 August 2003, a diploma approving the current model of RTP financing. In turn, the Arrival presents a bill that aims to change the conditions of collection of the VAC set out in the same law. It proposes, inter alia, that the contribution no longer be charged by the electricity companies or distributors, in order to be charged through the companies providing electronic communications services packages. It also proposes that consumers benefiting from the reduction in the value of the contribution be exempt from their payment. There seems to be a lack of political consistency here, because the change in the collection of the VAC, in a variety of identity invoices, remains unchanged some of the inconsistencies invoked. With regard to the Liberal Initiative, the two main reasons for establishing a new model for financing the public broadcasting and television service, by eliminating CAV, are based on : first, in the elimination of a rate which overburdens families in times of crisis, which would result in a savings of about €35 per year ; secondly, because the Liberal Initiative believes that broadcasting and television services should not be financed by public funds, since this contributes to market distortion, favouring public enterprise vis-à-vis the remaining private ones. They therefore argue that companies in the public and private sectors should be financed solely by the commercial revenues of their services and not by any contribution or fee to be paid to the taxpayers. However, this understanding of the Liberal Initiative does not take into account a fundamental concept, which consists of the recognition of the need for a public broadcasting and television service that contributes to the cultural and civic formation of Portuguese and the construction of a free, pluralist and democratic society. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Portugal, as in many European countries, is an imperative of the State to ensure the existence and functioning of a public broadcasting and television service and to ensure the necessary, sufficient and appropriate means for its provision. In addition to the own revenue generated by RTP, the main source of financing of the public broadcasting and television service is based on the CAV, which is charged monthly in the electric power bill for an amount of 2, 85 € plus VAT. The contribution to the audiovisual sector thus represents a significant portion of the revenues of the public service operator, which is indispensable for the continuation of the missions invested by the Television and Audiovisual Services Act to Request and the Public Radio and Television Service Concession Agreement, signed with the Portuguese State. I recall that this model is not exclusive from Portugal. In Germany, for example, the public broadcasting and television service has as a source of financing the payment by the citizens of a rate of 18, 36 € per month for each residence of a family member. In the United Kingdom, the viewing or recording of programs issued by the BBC ( British Broadcasting Corporation ) in any channel or format is subject to the payment of a licence for each family residence, amounting to € 159. Here, it should be noted that the PSD considers it important to defend the existence of a public broadcasting and television service in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can ask whether or not the current model is the best financing model, we can raise a debate in order to seek a more appropriate form of funding from the public broadcasting and television service, we can and should ask whether the RTP — a recipient of this funding — ensures prudent and adequate management, balanced performance of the public television service, respecting the principle of the proper use of public resources from the contribution of all Portuguese people. For this reflection and its discussion, the PSD is and will always be available, but not at the expense of the abolition of the public service of broadcasting and television, as a powerful and essential instrument for the construction of a society more informed, more cultured, more democratic and oriented towards the preservation of fundamental values, such as the defense of national identity, Portuguese language, tolerance and pluralism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u82	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: IL so much likes freedom and democracy that it is willing to sacrifice both to the market. This contradiction is very visible, in particular in this proposal before us. Most of the democracies we compare with have public television services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u84	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u85	... with forms of autonomous financing, whether they are in the light account or otherwise, because it is understood that public television is a form of guarantee of pluralism and access to information throughout the territory. This is how RTP ( Portugal's Radio and Television ) has public service obligations that no television channel has, obligations that aim to meet social cohesion criteria and territorial cohesion criteria. For example, RTP has more restricted rules to ensure Portuguese gestual language; RTP has to guarantee International RTP ; RTP has to ensure a news coverage of the various localities in Portugal, which the market does not cover, because it is not profitable. [[CH protests.]] Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo even spoke about the anachronism of RTP, about being a model of the past that no longer has any connection to future generations, to new forms of communication. There is only one streaming platform in Portugal that is totally free and has national and international content: it is called RTP Play.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u87	It is the only one that guarantees access to all new content,... [[CH protests.]] ... with an advantage: is that RTP, by producing content, is helping the local economy, is helping the national production of content, which no platform else does. But the question is how RTP is financed, which ensures democracy, freedom, plurality, economics and national production, since it is not very desirable that RTP, being a public television, depends entirely on the State budget, which is changing to the taste of each government. It is good that you have an autonomous form of funding. [[CH protests.]] There is a second problem: RTP has increased costs because it fulfils a public service, but it cannot compete with the private in advertising revenues. [[IL protests.]] Therefore, you cannot have the same advertising revenue—it is legally prevented—that the private have. It is even desirable that you do not have it, not only because it implies other conditions on the market, but also because if you want public television to be a guarantor of independence from the economic powers and from the government at every moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u88	Aren't you independent when you're at SIC? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u89	The premise is wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u90	What would happen to the end of the VAC? Oh, my God! It was the end of RTP. The end of the CAV was the end of the RTP. That, of course, Mr President, is a proposal that we cannot follow. We defend the free, autonomous public service, which adds to democracy, rather than always see ourselves as hostages to market logic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u91	To speak on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: RTP is a public company that includes radio and television stations, and every day, around the world, it provides content and services to millions of people—which clearly the Liberal Initiative, by bringing us this proposal, ends up ignoring. The importance of this media is indisputable, whether through the dissemination of culture or information, as well as by the contribution of the sense of union to all Portuguese who are dispersed by the diaspora. in this sense, it seems to us that it is essential that we ensure not only the maintenance of this public service, but also, of course, the non-governmental interference. in this measure, we agree, but not on the path that the Liberal Initiative brings us. In fact, when it is eliminating the contribution to audiovisual — which is different from the proposal for exemption that has come to us — there is a lack of caution in some of the basic principles of democracy, which are those of freedom of the press, the suitability of the institutions and also of access to information. On the other hand, we must not forget that the service provided by the RTP should also accompany the evolution of our society— whose money should not be used, for example, to support and disseminate mountaineering and related activities—and should follow the same path that it has already followed with the Tauromachy: that of eliminating this type of activity from its programming.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u93	Have you been on TV yet? Oh, my God! That's dictatorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u94	But as far as the essential service of RTP is concerned, the NAP recognizes the importance of this public service and will always be next to its maintenance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u95	That's dictatorship! It's dictatorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u96	Above all, the NAP recognises the importance of access to information by the thousands of Portuguese citizens who are abroad and for whom this element is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u97	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative made a speech in which it said, for example, that the VAC is regressive, but it does not propose to make it less retroactive; it proposes to eliminate it. In the public debate, the Liberal Initiative often compares Portugal much with its European partners, but this time it has forgotten to do so and to say that seven times more is paid in Germany and ten times more is paid in the United Kingdom. Well, because BBC and the public broadcasters of the German Federal Republic play a public role, as RTP also plays, in its multiple valences and in multiple moments. When there is a crisis, when there is a pandemic, when there is a need to have the telescope, RTP is there. in this Parliament, the presentation of this proposal has at least one merit : to clarify what we could finally call "simplism" of the Liberal Initiative. The Liberal Initiative is pluralist—and well—but forgets to be pluralist in its pluralism. I say: we can have a lot of choice, but if all the choice we have — either in shampoos, soups, or television broadcasters — is always guided by the same criterion, this choice is false, because we do not have pluralism within pluralism. [[CH protests.]] That is why it is important that, in our offer of television, there is a commercial offer, there is a public offer, there is a non-profit offer, and that we increase — and we do not diminish — the type of criteria we have, so that we are not only a pluralist society, but a society in which there are multiple criteria in this pluralism that we offer to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am renewing what you have already said: the only consequence that you have. Members who try to prevent a Member from speaking have to have the time available to complete his argument.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u100	That's what he's got!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u101	And the day you need to have half an hour for that, I'll-I'll-I'll give you half an hour,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u102	You can do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u103	...because either one of the ladies and gentlemen. Members here have the right to be heard and to express their arguments. By the way, he agreed that they would not try the same technique as the President of the Assembly of the Republic, because that is too much. [[P.S., L. and P.P.P. Members' applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u104	You now have the floor to speak in the debate, Mrs Sara Velez of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed two legislative initiatives, one from the IL and the other from the Arrival, both about the financing of RTP. The bill presented by the Liberal Initiative party, in the context of the current energy price crisis, presents a new model of financing the public television service, eliminating the contribution to audiovisual and thus seeking to reduce the electricity bill of families. The aim of the initiative presented by the Arrival is to change the conditions of collection of this contribution, leaving the same to be charged by energy-marketing companies to be charged through telecommunications and internet companies. Both one initiative and the other, although on very different grounds, intend to introduce changes in how RTP is financed. One of them completely capitulates public funding, with the motivation—which is expressed in the epigraphation of the title, apparently full of virtuosity—to lower the electricity bill of the Portuguese, but its fundamental objective, moreover, declared, is that the RTP becomes financed exclusively by revenue from commercial advertising. This vision implies, in practice, the end of any public radio and television service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u107	Indeed, in order to generate commercial revenues, strategic orientation and the planning of operators’ activities — whether radio or television — would necessarily be commercial and not of a public service nature, thus preventing the fulfilment of the constitutional obligation, which falls on the Portuguese State, from ensuring the existence and operation of a public television service. It should also be noted that this bill does not provide for any contingent mechanism for the provision of public service if RTP does not obtain sufficient commercial revenues. This would involve endangering the proper functioning of the public radio and television service in the development of its activity as a global reference communication tool and platform, such as RTP. The other initiative, from the Party of Arrival, provides for the modification of the model of collection of the contribution itself, passing it from the electricity-marketing companies to the telecommunications operators. This new configuration can also — as the opinion of the ERC itself ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) makes the initiative, very explicitly — endanger the value collected, questioning the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the contract, since a significant portion of these revenues comes from the CAV itself, as we all know. It should also be added that the time at which we discuss these two initiatives is precisely the time when the government, within its competences, promotes — as we all know — the revision of the concession contract. The government has recently appointed the committee to produce the White Paper on the subject, and all the interlocutors with whom we have spoken commend the work being done, which then intends to produce the best solution — based on all the information, knowledge and best practices available — to have a new contract that allows RTP to continue to provide the best response from public services. To discuss the financing model at a time when the concession contract is being revised does not seem entirely appropriate, because of this amendment which will also, predictably, produce effects on its financing model. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, we have often stated, from this bench, that we are intransigent...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u108	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u109	... defenders of the public radio and television service. RTP ensures a highly diversified set of quality programming, at a noble time, favouring Portuguese-language productions, supporting national cinema and fiction, promoting the institutional dissemination of indisputable public utility and also helping to promote independent productions. RTP, even in difficult times—as was the pandemic period— was fundamental to helping national production and fiction and Portuguese artists. Quickly organized to take the Study at Home to all students through television and digital platforms, who, as a result of successive confinements, were left without classes. It has even played a key role in the dissemination of prevention information to the entire population about the pandemic, and it is doing so, also without distortions, with regard to the coverage of the war in Ukraine. RTP is also the television station that promotes fundamental programmes to increase the quality of democracy, accompanying public discussions on the most diverse themes. As you reminded us yesterday, your Director of Information, on the visit made by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport to RTP — in which, unfortunately, we could not count on the company of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u111	Did they miss you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u112	... RTP is also the television channel that produces programmes such as Parliament or the Euro MPs, thus also contributing to the « increase in the quality of our democracy » — one more quote by the President of the RTP Board of Directors at a recent hearing in the Assembly. Private services could also have done so, it is true. They could, but indeed they did not; and if they did, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it wouldn't be the same. As we have come to reiterate — and I will repeat again — a radio and television service that guarantees rights to information, education, cultural and civic training, culture, quality programming and truly independent and plural information, which is not dependent on commercial advertising rules dictated by audiences or other criteria meets the essential requirements for having a public television service. We know that this is essentially guaranteed through the contribution to audiovisual. On this side, we will always be in defense of these principles, in defense of the public service of television, for democracy, for plurality and also for Portuguese culture, not only in Portugal, as in all our diaspora, with all the Portuguese throughout the world, the reference program of our RTP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u113	To intervene, you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative brings to the debate a proposal justifying the elimination of the audiovisual contribution in order to reduce the bill of electricity. Yesterday the profits of EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) were made public : in 2022, it obtained EUR 679 million of profit. If, truly, the intention of the Liberal Initiative was to reduce the electricity bill, then, because it does not intervene in the profit margins of energy companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u115	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u116	... those who are earning the sacrifices of families, the sacrifices of workers and the population? They're winning and it's not too much. There is plenty of space there to reduce the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u117	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u118	What about lowering taxes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u119	For IL, what is never lower is profits; profits, as I have already mentioned, obtained at the expense of wages, pensions, pensioners and workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u120	You don't go down. It's taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u121	Even if there was no audiovisual contribution, the electricity bill would continue to increase. Consider the example of fuels: the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) has been reduced, but this did not have a proportional translation in reducing fuel prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u122	Yeah! It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u123	In fact, there were up to weeks in which there was a reduction in ISP and the fuels still increased. And what happened? This reduction was absorbed by the oil margins. At the time, we alerted the problem. So ending the audiovisual contribution does not mean reducing the electricity bill, which means that this is the amount that will be transferred to energy companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u125	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u126	To increase EDP's profits, the Liberal Initiative is available to end RTP. On the other hand, as the Liberal Initiative has said several times, its intention is to destroy, in fact, RTP, the public radio and television service. But RTP is not summarized in RTP 1, it also includes RTP 2, RTP 3, RTP Memory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u127	Ah, that's PCP, that's memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u128	... the RTP Azores, the RTP Madeira, the RTP International, the Antenna 1, the Antenna 2, the Antenna 3, the RTP Play and the radio Zig Zag, with contents specifically directed to the child and children. In addition to public radio and television service being fundamental to our freedom and democracy, it is also an essential element for promoting our culture, our language, territorial cohesion, for linking Portuguese communities to our territory, with concrete content, aimed at various areas of interest and at different layers of our population. In the education plan, there are also specific contents that are produced. We all remember that, at the time of the pandemic, it was the RTP that did the transmission of the classes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u129	Can we say, however, that everything's okay? No, it's not all right, but the solution doesn't go through privatization or the dismantling of RTP. The options of successive governments have created numerous constraints in RTP, such as the end of compensatory compensations, which have greatly limited the development of projects and the production of diversified content. The solution goes through public funding through the State budget. It also goes through investment in the modernisation and innovation of RTP. It goes through the appreciation of its workers, ensuring stable working links, guaranteed careers and decent wages. This is not a market issue. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic determines that the State ensures the existence and operation of a public radio and television service. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government to guarantee the conditions and means to ensure the public radio and television service — RTP — in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u130	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u131	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, you forgot to speak in RTP Africa!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u132	It's racism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u133	Careful with that, which can be considered racism, but let us hope not. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u134	Is that the only thing you have to say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u135	Mrs Fernanda Velez, I appreciate your opinion, but I have to say that at the moment we are waiting for the White Paper of the Public Radio and Television Service to be completed, which will help us discuss the forms of RTP funding. We believe that advertising will be one of the forms of RTP funding, but we are exactly waiting for the White Paper to come out. On the other hand, the fact that RTP is being defended as a public enterprise does not mean that we are in favour of a social state. However, we believe that the RTP is in fact the only way, the only television station that, being public, can take us to the four corners of the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u136	To close the debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u137	Mr President, this debate, at the time of closure, can well be said that it needed a little more time, because today we are alone here defending a new model of funding for public television service, as we have already been. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Madam Member, if you will allow me to say what I think—and not what you think I think—maybe it is preferable. [[Applause from the IL.]] In times past we were alone defending a certain position in relation to TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) and today many people are with us. I'm sure a lot of people will be with us in defending a new financing model for TAP. A lot has been said here that we have not said and also some things that show that there is a great need for debate on the subject: we never advocate that it should end with RTP, we never advocate that it should end with the public service of RTP, but we advocate that it should end with the contribution to the audiovisual sector. [[PCP protests.]] in trying to end the contribution to the audiovisual, what I meant, in the rostrum, was that I wanted to establish a new form of funding that was more related to the real public service objectives, in order to make it quite successful. Then there are things that are said that deserve an answer. PSD Member Fernanda Velez tells us that we want to end CAV because it is a way of promoting public television. No, I even think it's a way of favoring private television, because, by isolated and taking public television out of the advertising market, those who win are private televisions, and we have a duopoly of private televisions that — that, yes! — harms pluralism of pluralism. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block, wants to convince us that the introduction of gestal language, territorial coverage and a greater contribution to local content—
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u138	Among other things...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u139	...and there we go, to local content — worth EUR 200 million per year. Even if this account worked, I would remind the honourable Member that what is spent, by RTP, on local content, compared to what is spent on private televisions and on streaming platforms themselves, is a drop of water. Public television does not spend more than these platforms. As for technological innovation or RTP Play, I welcome the appearance of RTP Play, but what is the audience of RTP Play? How many visions do you have? [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I tell you, Mrs. Member : nobody knows, nobody knows, because that doesn't count absolutely for anything in the future more or less RTP's laughter. Then tell us that it would be a danger for RTP to stop relying on the contribution to the audiovisual and become dependent on the Budget because it would remove the independence of RTP. However, I would remind the honourable Member that the Lusa — the news agency — depends on the budget. Is the honourable Member suggesting that we also have to deal with this matter, because the independence of Lusa is in danger?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u140	He's going to be...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u141	Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House tells us that we are doing very well in making international comparisons. We do very well and we do well because, by quoting the study by the European Broadcasting Union, which, if you remember, is an association of public televisions, you forgot to say that we are the least charged countries, but that we are only one of the 13 countries that charge and that in the European Union there are 15 countries that do not charge. Then the'pluralism of pluralism', which is an interesting expression, but as many interesting expressions by the honourable Member, means very little. In the case of RTP, what is pluralism? Is the football that happens at RTP better than the football of the others? Is the entertainment that happens at RTP more entertainment than the entertainment of others? What about the RTP contests? in this case, Mr, let us see what is the production budget of RTP for these contents I have just talked about and also for those mentioned here as being very important, as if there were no information contents of cultural dissemination on the other channels, with much more audience. This is because the things that happen in the RTP, without audience, do not matter and, above all, must not be borne by the Portuguese, in a general way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u142	Oh, no? Oh, my God! Is that the audience that counts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u143	Then, this scary thing that only happens at RTP is that it's seen all over the world, as if people around the world were holding on to television to watch TV content, it's a whole thing of the last century.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u144	It's just Big Brother!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u145	Then, in order to culminate, I wanted to say that in the speech of Mr Jorge Galveias of the Arrival, of the most baffling things I have heard here in Parliament in recent times, it was that I think that in the interior you only see RTP, you can see nothing more, as if the other private channels, including RTP 3, were not also available on TDT ( terrestrial digital television). On the other hand, he also wants to extend the exemptions, introducing even more state on this issue, being the contributor to pay, once again, and says that this type of initiative, of the Liberal Initiative, is an attack on democracy. Mr Deputy, an attack on democracy, coming from arrive, would be almost a joke. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u146	You're strong today!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u147	I remember that nine months ago—take note! — Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u148	Today, she's raising her voice!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u149	Do you remember what Mr. Diogo Pacheco of Amorim said in this Chamber about the contribution to audiovisual?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u150	Have a judgment, Mr. Deputy, have a judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u151	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u152	9 months ago — this is my part of RTP Memory, Mr President — Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim said, in this House, that the contribution to the audiovisual was a way to put EDP to make ‘the weak’ of the audiovisual contributions and that the real intention was to end the CAV, but it was not yet, because it was slaughtering the already massacred Portuguese with the bills of electricity. [[CH protests.]] So this kind of incoherence that has already been used to, that is, yes, the real attack on democracy! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u153	We will now move on to point 3 of the agenda, with the joint assessment, in general, the Bills No. 376 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Change the Statute of the National Health Service ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August ), 146 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Status of the National Health Service, 584 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the provision of psychological and nutrition consultations in health centres groups, amending the Statute of the National Health Service, and 591 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Changes are made to the Statute of the National Health Service in order to enable and ensure fairness in the right to health of citizens. As soon as conditions are in place, Mr. João Dias can start slowly climbing the stairs and using his best alentejan voice to make himself heard. [[CH protests.]] Wait a half a minute longer. [[Pause.]] All right, you can start now, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite all the problems and contradictions to which the National Health Service ( SNS) is subject—and there are many, we do not hide it! — It is remarkable its ability to resist and respond to the health problems of the population, a ability to care and care that is only possible thanks to the strong connection to the population, but thanks also, and much, to the commitment and dedication of its health professionals, which we welcome from here. The SNS, this conquest of the April Revolution, which, having been inscribed in our Constitution, belongs above all to the Portuguese people, makes it even more relevant that the SNS Statute is an element which defends it from the attacks it has been targeting, since its creation, and which solves its main problems: that it puts the right to health first, that it breaks with the interests of those who want to make the disease and health a business, that is, a statute that responds and corresponds to the needs of the population, whose shortages in financing, planning and management only benefit private groups, who take advantage of the disease to make a source of profit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u156	The new SNS Statute did not respond to the demands of recovery of the National Health Service, before, on the contrary, it is even a backwardness, in view of the approval of the new Health Bases Act. The proof of this is that, today, when we should be talking about the opening up of more services in the SNS, in fact, what is being said is about its closure. When, today, people should be reassured with the guarantee of necessary health services at all levels and specialties, strengthening their human and physical resources, as well as their ability to respond, what is seen is the lack of investment, is the garrote of the Ministry of Finance and a worrying and growing transfer of public money, valences and services to private economic groups. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the CFP has proposed the amendment to the new Statute of the SNS which, published by the Government, does not fully correspond to the status that the CFP intends to exist. It is not a matter of presenting a SNS Statute which the CFP considers necessary. We are seeking, yes, to correct its most negative guidelines. We therefore want to introduce the main measures that respond to the problems currently facing the SNS. We propose to withdraw the opening for the delivery of more services to the private sector, either in primary health care or in hospitals, including the formulations laid down in the Health Bases Act, which provides for the suppletive and temporary character of recourse to the private. We also believe that private providers should not integrate the SNS, and the possibility of providing hospital services should be excluded as well as the private management of public units. It also eliminates the possibility of delivery of family health units ( USF ) to entities outside the SNS, provided for in model C, so desired by the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u157	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u158	In the plan of institutional architecture, we reject the creation of a new executive direction, opting for the strengthening of the competencies of the current ACSS (Central Health System Administration ), which becomes the central administration of the National Health Service, and not of the health system, as it has been arsiliously designated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u160	We clarify the permanence of regional health administrations, the ARS, whose maintenance has become dubious with the status approved by the government, since it is understood that we need the existence of a regional deconcentration, for which there is no alternative at this time. The CFP, with this bill, amends the SNS Statute, because it believes that with the new status of the government, the devaluation of health workers is maintained, which is a factor of demobilization and abandonment of the SNS that is important to invert. It also perpetuates and consolidates the rule of the individual labour contract and the Labour Code regime, with which this means devalued careers and linkage to the Public Administration, which adds the inavailability that the Government has manifested to improve the remuneration of health professionals. It included, in the new statute, a full dedication scheme which, in fact, no one knows and, as little as is known, is totally different from the previous exclusive dedication scheme — in fact, also interrupted by the PS government — and will translate into maintaining the accumulation of functions in private and increasing the hourly burden. It maintains the possibility of unlimited practice of extraordinary hours, without taking care of the rights of health workers, not even of the quality and safety conditions in the performance of their duties. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we need is a statute that opens the door to more doctors, more nurses, technical and operational assistants, more psychologists, pharmacists, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, therapists, dentists, nutritionists and so many other professions, to ensure a work that is increasingly multidisciplinary and team. We need, above all, to fight for the SNS of primary health care, with more doctors and family nurses and all professionals indispensable to the follow-up of all they need. Finally, we need an SNS that values and respects professionals and creates conditions for their fixation. Does this have any costs? Of course, but it will always cost less than delivering health services to private groups. That, yes, is much more expensive for the health of Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u161	What about Loures? How's it going in Loures?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u162	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, 11 leaders were dismissed from the Loures hospital; today, at the end of the afternoon, a user committee will protest against the closure of emergencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u164	Listen to your friend! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u165	We want to hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u166	It happens in Loures and it happens a bit throughout the country, but the Minister of Health has come to tell us that he had the solution: let's be quiet, there are no closures, what there is reorganization. It may be a bit difficult, however, for the Loures population to understand why when it comes to an emergency that is closed, after all, it is not closed, it is reorganized and opens elsewhere. And, therefore, what Mr Health Minister says to the people of Loures is that it's all right, only that the pediatric urgency they wanted in Loures, after all, works in Lisbon. He will say the same to the people of Barreiro or Montijo: "It's all right, there's no closures, there's a reorganization. » And the people of Barreiro or Montijo there will have a closed door, which is not a closure, and will come to Lisbon to have access to the emergencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u167	Listen to your friend!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u168	It was not tragic and this seemed like a sketch by Ricardo Araújo Pereira : « The emergencies are not closed, they are reorganized; they open the door, they do not open; they are reorganized in another municipality, elsewhere».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u169	He spoke well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u170	It's the emergency of pediatrics, it's the emergency of obstetrics, it's more and more services. On 8 March, the Minister of Health will be in Parliament, at the request of the Left Block, and after so many delays, and I can only expect that on 8 March, International Women's Day, the Minister of Health will say that there are emergencies and not that closures, after all, are reorganizations, because that is worth very little to those seeking his hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u172	But if the users do not find your hospital it is necessary to say that health workers do not find any answers either. This afternoon, while we were here in this plenary session, he ended a meeting with FNAM, the National Medical Federation, saying that «he does not understand what Minister Manuel Pizarro wants». And he says to the President of FNAM: "We do not understand what the Minister wants, there is no further negotiation and, therefore, the strike of doctors will continue on 8 and 9 March. Do not keep on seeking. ” So far, all the government does about the National Health Service is push with the belly — push with the belly — and as it pushes the problem with the belly, the problem gets bigger and bigger! And at the heart of this problem is the lack of professionals in the National Health Service, the lack of conditions so that workers can focus on the National Health Service, which, in fact, the Left Block says for years. And year after year, the government will make another promise, will throw another number of millions and another number of contracts that do not correspond in any way to the reality of the National Health Service. There will be a day when the PS realizes that the country does not govern with ads, the Country rules with solutions and the National Health Service needs people working in the SNS. Never happened, in the time of our democracy, what is happening now: services are being closed, not because of lack of users, but because of lack of professionals. This is a retreat like there's no memory! The Left Block project for the SNS Statute addresses a lot of matters, but now I want to talk about the fixing of professionals, because that is the biggest problem we have. And I want to read you a letter, a letter from 2018, which was written by someone to whom the National Health Service said a lot, and it was written to doctors: "As we all know" — and I quote — "...my friends, as professionals, and I, as a user, our National Health Service undergoes a time of great difficulties which, if not quickly shortened, can lead to their collapse. » Continue the letter, further: «... Without careers, which presuppose the entrance by competition, permanent training, progression by merit, an adequate maturity, there is no National Health Service worthy of this name. Do not keep on seeking. ” This letter was written in 2018 by Antonio Arnaut, and in these five years, as in previous years, the government has promised and broken all of its promises. In the proposal for the Statute of the Block of Left, which I present today and which is going to vote, I would like to highlight those measures that have to do with this: the existence of careers, decent salaries, the ability of permanent training of doctors and workers of the SNS, because that is what they need to remain in the National Health Service. That is precisely the idea that all SNS workers will be entitled to a career. And nobody says it's career to tell a nurse that she has to work 100 years or an 80 doctor to get to the top of the career! This isn't a career, it's playing with those who work! Career is, yes, the right to do research — the research that is the permanent training to which health professionals are entitled — and is able to work, with leaders who can recognize, because they can go to the competition or be elected and have competitions and programmes, and not heads by appointment that no one understands. That's the health that the SNS needs and that's why we fight every day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u173	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at a time when we are faced with a serious setback in access to SNS and with the closure of hospital emergencies, particularly pediatrics and pedopsychiatry, more than ever it is urgent not only to speak in health but to give answers to what the SNS needs. And this phrase, in particular the need for the "better to prevent than to remedy", is of particular relevance when we talk about health, because it is clear that we could prevent numerous diseases and save immense resources from the National Health Service if we were to place on the priority of preventive health rather than repeatedly choosing the anterior medication. in this area, the government has left a lot of work behind. It is estimated that one third of deaths from inadequate eating habits, obesity or diabetes would be avoidable and we know that almost half of Portuguese adults reported that their stress levels have worsened with the beginning of the health crisis. But, whether in the context of mental health support or in the provision of nutrition consultations, what we have seen is repeatedly a lack of human resources and lack of support, including at the level of social action, also in our universities. This global epidemic that has struck us and the lack of associated human resources has led to the decline in the response capacity of the SNS. In Portugal, we chose to reverse the health statement, preferring to remedy without prevention rather than prevent it from remedying. So today we bring the debate a bill that aims to reverse the current paradigm. And, contrary to what a certain liberal right wants us to believe, it is not underfunding the National Health Service or leaving it to the unregulated claims of the private that health care will improve in Portugal, quite the contrary. Until, I remember, during the pandemic, in the emergency services, we had citizens fainting waiting for care, precisely in private, and who valued them was the National Health Service. More: that is why we also propose that citizens have access to consultations on psychology and nutrition in health groups and centres, in order to ensure that everyone, without exception, has access to these health services that we consider essential, without being harmed if they do not have monetary funds to do so. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are attending a full debate, with proposals from various banks, on the problems of the SNS Statute. Relevant issues have been raised and we must not forget what is brought to us here. We all believe, with our differences and ideologies, in the struggle for a better SNS for all and for all. Therefore, we hope that they will follow the NAP proposal, because taking care of our health must also start with prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u175	In order to speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all support the idea that the creation of the SNS was an extraordinary civilizational advancement, Mr. João Dias. For 43 years, health care has ceased to depend on the income of each person and the disease has ceased to be a financial punishment on those who are economically most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u178	It is this path that we have been on for 43 years and this path that the Socialist Party continues and wants to improve, the way to ensure that all Portuguese health care is efficient, accessible and of quality, every day, every hour. It is in this sense that the new SNS Statute emerges. It emerges from the need to adapt to new realities, to meet new challenges and to continue to give effective answers to all Portuguese, every day and every hour. A statute appropriate to the new Health Bases Act, which clarifys the role and relationship between the various actors of the health system. And, Mr, there is no confusion between competences assigned to the various health structures, in particular ACSS, SPMS ( Shared Services of the Ministry of Health ), the Ministry of Health or the Executive Directorate. Yes, there is a well-defined, concrete political strategy that is very simple to understand. This new status emerges to promote the autonomy of institutions, in a policy of decentralization and proximity, with gains in autonomy and strengthening leadership. It emerges to define strategies, in order to ensure greater motivation for professionals, in respect for their valorization and fair remuneration, and the theme of full dedication is in negotiations. This status emerges with the aim of reorganizing and profitable the operation of services, emphasizing the idea of networked operation, in articulation, in an optimization of resources, efficiency and value added. For example, at the level of obstetric services, the implementation of the Birth in Security Plan in the SNS, a plan involving several services, involved many professionals and was approved when all actors agreed. A plan that emerges with the aim of ensuring effective access, greater security and effective response, and which, so far, Mr Deputy, works smoothly. This new SNS Statute is presented as a strategic planning tool that follows a clear and objective political orientation. In order to solve the main problems of the SNS, it aims to implement structural measures which, of course, will not please everyone and which, therefore, can generate a challenge. But, Mr President, it takes time, time for results to be presented, time for conclusions to be drawn. Only with six months of work, with the creation and dedication of the Executive Directorate, which is the biggest revolution in the management of the SNS, with the greatest investment in health in recent years, with the tendency to increase the number of professionals and with the recognition that a firm intervention is required at the level of health, remains to ask me whether this will be the time of the Communist Party to propose amendments to the SNS Statute. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u179	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor to make a request for clarification to Mrs Irene Costa. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u180	Mr President, Mrs Irene Costa, speaking in this debate of a project that aims at a non-failure SNS, which this government has presented, is at least loaded on the day we are. As you know, yesterday we announced the closure of the urgencys of the Loures hospital, which today is moving children back to other Lisbon hospitals. This is what you have achieved with your SNS Statute. This is what you have achieved with your changes in the SNS! There is no end of the week when a hospital runs entirely, with its various valences, and right now, right here, by our side, in several municipalities, emergencies close, which is precisely the opposite of what your Minister has said he was going to do. I would therefore like to know what you think about this, about the Minister who guaranteed that there would be no closures, that there would be continuity of services, that there would be the continuation of the functioning of the SNS and that it is now closing pediatric emergencies. This is what the PS here, if not just an extension of the government, should respond. It is that so far, Mrs. Member, the famous SNS Statute, the famous logic of the SNS, has only given for one thing: it has given to advisers of thousands of euros of the new CEO (executive chief officer) of health. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's all you've given so far. He didn't give anything else! So far, no one has noticed why we have a new CEO in health, what he is improving and why he needs 360 € advisors per day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u182	That's what we should try to understand. And the honourable Member comes here to talk about the SNS Statute, the programme that the Government is implementing and the SNS without failures today, in which everything is failing, Mrs Deputies, is at least not knowing the reality or, in relation to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a great lack of shame. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u183	In reply, Mrs Irene Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u184	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I do not think you have listened carefully to what has been said. What was proposed at the level of the SNS Statute was a reorganization of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u185	And that's what's happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u186	The services will not close, they will be reorganized; there is only one night, repeat, night and with response in other institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u187	Go to Loures and see what's going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u188	I am very surprised that Mr Andre Ventura came with these questions when your party voted against the State budget, in which a large amount of money was provided for health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u189	I would once again give Mr Andre Ventura the floor to present the initiative of the Arrival, but first, Mr Andre Ventura, and I am sorry, I have to make only one clarification. There was a communication problem here. In practice, it was noted that Mrs Irene Costa was making a request for clarification to Mr João Dias. In the meantime, Mr André Ventura thought Mrs Irene Costa was making an intervention. The table, for a moment, thought nothing. [[Laughing.]] But everything can be corrected. If Mr João Dias understands that he has been questioned by Mrs Irene Costa and wishes to respond to the request for clarification, he will do so and then Mr André Ventura will present the initiative of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u190	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u191	Mr. Member, is it to make an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u192	Mr. President, it is only to say that the arrival dispenses the presentation of the project, will make an own intervention, presenting the project, thus rewording Mr. João Dias, for him to respond immediately to Mrs. Deputy. It seemed to me, honestly, that Mrs Irene Costa was making an intervention and I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u193	Thank you, sir. Then, with this participative conduct of the work, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u194	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity to still be able to respond to the request made to me. Mrs. Member, I want to tell you that if there was something that was not missing, it was time that the PCP gave to the PS. In fact, only with much revolutionary patience is that we have been able to tolerate all those difficulties in order to improve the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH, IL and PSD Members' rice.]] It is worth reminding us of the gains and achievements the population had with the initiative of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u195	But what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u196	Of course, the end of the moderate rates, Mrs Deputy, which was not entirely because the PS still resisted to end the moderate rates in emergencies. But there was also for health professionals the defrosting of careers, namely the passage from 40 hours to 35 hours per week. All this with a lot of resistance, and the PS, with his feet to red, didn't want it! [[Laughing.]] We, fortunately, have succeeded, had this resistance. But I would also like to say to the right, particularly to the Parliamentary Group of Arrival, that what you want us to know very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u197	That's the one! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u198	Don't you get the more than 6 billion euros that go directly from the budget of the National Health Service to the private? Oh, my God! Do you want more? We know very well what you want! [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests and PCP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u199	Now is the time, perhaps, to hear a serene voice and nothing better than Mrs. Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative for this purpose. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are again discussing the SNS Statute, one month after the last discussion. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is never too much, because it is never too much to say that this new status does no more than change the position of the data, because the game remains the same. This is because, as we have seen, the policies of the Government and the Socialist Party do not bring about changes. We continue to watch SNS degradation and little or nothing is done. On the other hand, the Left Block and the PCP, justice is done to you, with these bills, indeed, they present changes. It happens that the overwhelming majority of them are diametrically opposed to what the Liberal Initiative defends for the SNS and for the whole health system. Yes, sir. Members, there is more life than SNS. There is an entire national health system that you ignore and despise, but without which more than 3200 million people would not have access to care. And in this issue, I'm just including people who have private health insurance. These people, of course, would not have access to health, because the SNS alone would not have the ability to respond to them. Mrs. Members, unlike the Left Block and the PCP, the Liberal Initiative believes that networking between the various sectors should work on a network and in real complementarity, because private and social sectors should not exist only to overcome public sector deficiencies. This is not only not seen in the new SNS Statute, which only provides, in a vague manner, the articulation between the various sectors, as much less is seen in the bills of the Left Block and the PCP, which, as usual, centralize everything in the state. I reinforce that the Liberal Initiative defends a health system where this statistical management does not predominate, which, obviously, as we have all witnessed, has only generated inefficiencies, waiting lists, closed services, mismanagement of resources and no autonomy of managers. The new SNS Statute does not change this scenario and these left-wing bills still worsen it. I'm going to give an example: these projects end with PPPs (public-private partnerships) and, Mrs. Catarina Martins, you need to have a lot of can, I'm sorry, to have gone up there, to the gallery, talk about the current situation of the Loures hospital, when the Left Block, in defending the end of the PPPs, was one of the parties responsible for the situation that happens today at the Loures hospital. [[Applause from the IL.]] What are you guys doing? Members of the Left Block and the PCP want is only more state, more state, more state. The Liberal Initiative advocates a paradigm shift, a state-centred health and a health provider focused on the best results for patients and more freedom of choice for people. This change is also not in the draft laws of the Arrival, which only proposes the strengthening of health professionals in deprived geographical areas, the end of the executive direction of the SNS, which is less bad,... [[CH protests.]] ... but proposes the replacement of the competences of the ARS, which is a mistake. You need more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u201	You started so well and now you're ruining everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u202	On the NAP bill, I just say that it is obviously important for everyone to have access to mental health and nutrition care within primary care, but it is important to remember that this access can be perfectly contractual with the private sector and with the social sector, with liberal professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative wants a health system that works, closer to people, with more incentives for the best results, competition between sectors and that always keeps the protection of those who need it. These requirements necessarily require a deep reconfiguration of the model that exists, as no better results are achieved at the moment, with incremental improvements, cosmetic changes or remedies. Thus, nothing serves to change this SNS Statute without first reformulating the entire health model we have in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u203	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Parliament is discussing four initiatives which are proposed to amend the Statute of the National Health Service in force, which was approved six months ago by Decree-Law No 52 / 2022. We understand that the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN use this way of circumventing their limitation, which is that they do not have enough Members to require the parliamentary assessment of the law in question. On the other hand, the draft law of the Arrival is less understandable, insofar as this party has already requested the parliamentary assessment of the SNS Statute, which is the seat where it is necessary to discuss at this time any changes to that diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u205	That's the excuse you're making for not presenting anything, it's talking bad about others!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u206	That said, they leave much to be desired by the proposals under discussion today. Those of the PCP and the Left Block repeat the usual statistical cassette that is in the genesis of the extreme left: more state, only state, radical separation between public and private functions, maintenance of obsolete and bureaucratic regional health administrations, end of business management of public hospitals and their integration into the administrative public sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u207	And that's a graphonola!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u208	If these proposals are approved, they will cause an even faster and overwhelming degradation of the SNS, increasingly abandoned by its trained professionals and increasingly reduced to a minimum health service. [[PSD applause.]] As for the NAP project, if it is always worthwhile to propose more consultations on psychology and nutrition in the SNS, this proposal does not cease to know little when the validity of the SNS Statute is concerned. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not refer to the Socialist Party's SNS Statute and much less to the current state of degradation of the SNS, which has more than 1, 5 million Portuguese without a family doctor; an SNS with hundreds of thousands of patients who are months and even years waiting for consultation and surgery; a SNS where hospital emergency services are broken and are forced to close doors to children and pregnant women; a SNS where many hospitals live the worst moments of their history, that is the example of the Beatriz Angel Hospital, which, a year ago, was a successful public-private partnership and now, with public management, patients complain about the longer waiting times and the degradation of services. [[PSD applause.]] The block resignation of the 11 chiefs of the Loures hospital emergency teams is a sign of alarm that something goes very wrong in the SNS, above all due to the lack of doctors and low investment. That is why we, the Social Democratic Party, have tabled a number of proposals for improving the current SNS Statute, which have not yet been voted on, but will be sent to Parliament this month. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] We propose an increase in the coverage of family physicians by using physicians in the social and private sectors; we propose a forecast of the possibility of remuneration of health professionals based on their clinical performance and health gains; we propose...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u209	Promises, promises! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u210	... the financing of the institutions and services of the SNS through multi-annual objective contractual mechanisms; we propose that the SNS can contract with the social and private sectors or professional groups the realization of health services, provided they are advantageous to the state and to the people; we propose the passage of the USF to model B, as well as the regulation of the USF of model C; we propose the dynamization of local health systems; and we propose, finally, the extinction of regional health administrations. [[PSD applause.]] We will also see this month whether the PS devilizes our proposals to save the SNS or whether it prefers to continue the only one responsible for the collapse to walk public health services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u211	But what proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u212	I remember that yesterday the President of the Municipality of Loures, a socialist, said that the results of the care activity of the Loures hospital were satisfactory with the previous management and are now far from the desired. And even the former socialist minister Campos Fernandes accuses the PS government of being ideological, having finished with PPPs at Beatriz Ângelo Hospital in Loures. The PSD will continue, as always, in the intransigent defense of people, of the National Health Service, refusing the demagogy of the extreme left parties and the irresponsibility of the PS government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u213	What are the alternatives of the PSD itself? I don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u214	Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u215	Madam President: We now see a beautiful moment here in Parliament when the Liberal Initiative says that "we need more, we have to do more, this which comes here is not enough, the extreme left is not enough, we need more! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And Mr Rui Cristina goes further and says: "We propose this, that and that, and where is the PS when the particular time comes? » And here we come to the day of the debate and look at the system to see if we find the proposals of the Liberal and PSD Initiative and there are no proposals of the Liberal and PSD Initiative. [[There's no, there's no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u216	The proposals are not here today! So let's propose, let's do it, let's think about it, but when the day of the debate comes, they're going to say they're going to propose but they're not proposing anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u217	It's in its own place!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u218	No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we, unlike you, risk and bring forward proposals. This is how it is in democracy: we risk and bring! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. João Dias said: "We know what you want! » Do we know? No, sir, we know what you want. They want to be the Socialist Party's second appendices and, as they cannot, they try to make some numbers for your districts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u219	You think? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u220	The honourable Member, who came here today to say what he said, you know that in Beja, in Beja hospital, still last year, at various times of the year, the pediatric emergency service itself was closed? What do you have to say about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u221	He doesn't even know where he's staying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u222	Do you know what happened in Évora yesterday? Does Évora say anything to you, Mr. Deputies? Do you know who has responsibilities in Évora, honourable Member? Still yesterday, a user died who did not care. « Do you know what we want»? Oh, my God! Look, there is one thing we don't want: to approve six socialist budgets that have destroyed health. That's what we don't want. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP protests.]] I hear you only approved four! Oh, they only approved four! Open... We do not want, as you wanted, the end of PPPs in some hospitals, which are now paying for your choice, because that was not even the choice of the Socialist Party. It was you who imposed this choice on the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u224	You know what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It is not even only the Socialist Party responsible for the destruction of what is happening in health in Beja, Évora, Vila Franca and Braga. You are the main responsible for the destruction of health in Portugal. The main ones! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And this is the difference: there is the extreme left that wants to destroy health; there is the right that speaks, but does not; and there is the other that is here proposing and giving her face! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u225	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. [[Pause.]] I see that Mr Luís Soares was preparing to intervene, but he is not yet Mr Rui Tavares of the Book. Today it's all a lot of fun and fun. [[Laughing.]] You have the floor, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u226	Madam President: I was a bit surprised by the version of the 'now it is' of a party that says that the others do not present proposals, but has already spoken three times and does not present a single proposal either. [[CH protests.]] But go on, go on, go on, time is short. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions so that you can speak. You seem to have a special reaction to Mr Rui Tavares. [[CH protests.]] I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u228	If you don't listen well, you can't be President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u229	What about the others? Is it just us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u230	Yeah, you can't hear it because you guys make so much noise that you can't hear it. Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u231	Madam President, the time is short and the challenges of the SNS are great. A study launched this Monday by Universidade Nova, by Professors Pedro Pita Barros and Eduardo Costa, tells us that there will be a vacancy of 5000 retirements in the SNS by 2030 and that even the increases of professionals that have been in recent years will not serve to strengthen the SNS, serve to maintain, and badly, the level of service. In addition, we have the problem not only of wages and new contracts but also of setting the time of service, because health professionals have children and daughters, want to balance work with their family life and it is unsustainable to keep the SNS so. There is, therefore, much to reinvent. It is necessary to end the chronic subscription of the SNS, it is necessary, as the NAP project says, to extend the SNS to new valences, nutritionism, mental health, it is necessary, as the Block project says, to ensure that the family health units stay in their initial spirit and therefore public service, and it is necessary to strengthen the SNS, as the PCP project says, which calls us to this debate. These projects deserve to be discussed in the specialty, because all the time it is little for, in this decade, we have a SNS that guarantees the quality service that provides to the Portuguese, that it has lent and that the Portuguese need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u232	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the viewers who are in the galleries and for the viewers who are watching us on television and who have only arrived now, I will give a brief summary of this debate: the SNS Statute was published on 4 August, a month later a new minister was appointed and 15 days later the Executive Director of the SNS was appointed. What did we have in the five months in which the executive director was appointed? We had the obvious confusion of competences that everyone, starting with us, warned that there would be. When asked about the difficulty of accessing IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy), or about the maternity closure plan, or about the solution for block resignations in pediatric emergency services, and others, in various hospitals, the minister and the executive director had or had different knowledge or different opinions. What we haven't had in these five months was certainly improvements in the SNS. The story of the Statute continues. It has already been the subject of a parliamentary opinion and now goes back to the debate with four — no less than four — amendments. It is a rich life to this Statute, but, from our point of view, it is vain, because doing remedies to something that has no cure will not put anything forward at all. In fact, in this regard, I cannot but say that two of the proposals discussed here today, one from the Left Block and another from the PCP, intend to end any chance of making PPPs forever, i.e., it is not just not making new PPPs, as was in the memorandum of management.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u234	Exactly! Clearly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u235	I challenge the owners of the Left Block and the Communist Party to find a user, an author, a person who observes the realities before and after PPPs and who says that PPPs should not come back. [[Applause from the IL.]] It was clear once again that this health problem in Portugal does not go there with remedies, does not go there with festivals to the SNS Statute without a structural reform. I invite you guys. Members will follow me in a reflection and tell me whether they agree with this way of looking at the problem. In Portugal there are three types of health care users. There are those who have no alternative and go to the SNS — and they are generally unhappy with everything, with access, with waiting time, with care and care. There are those who have health insurance, companies or private insurance—and these are a little less unhappy, but do not like the territorial coverage or the coverage of pathology or the requirements of pre-existing conditions. And there are ADSE users, who don't have so many coverage difficulties, nor pre-existing conditions, but they have some price increases, back and half, so half unjustified. No one's completely happy. But let's imagine that we took these three groups of people and that we managed to have no cause for complaint that you have today: access becomes universal, without depending on preconditions, without increasing sudden prices, with fast and quality care from the point of view of therapy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u236	Is that in Romania? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u237	This will be the proposal for a basic health law that the Liberal Initiative will propose in this Parliament. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't follow other people's agendas, we'll do our schedule when we're ready. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u238	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u239	I shall conclude with this fantastic phrase that I invented this morning, Madam President : the left likes to say that we defend the private health, and the left is almost right — we defend those who are deprived of health care as it should be! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u240	Now, yes, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Soares, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They depart from today about eight months after the approval of the Statute of the National Health Service. It should be recalled that the adoption of this instrument was preceded by a long public discussion, in which the parties were able to participate, and that it was also preceded by a long debate and approval of the Health Bases Act, which, since its first adoption in the 1990s, had only a great reform, precisely the reform of eight months ago. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude the idea, even before we begin, that this afternoon's debate, as it has been seen, has not been convened to vote on the government or to help improve the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u242	The government's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u243	On the contrary, the debate was called to intensify the simplistic speech of some, who say that there is chaos in the SNS, that the government and the PS demonstrate ideological blindness, or against, or in favour of the private, according to the criticism we arrive on the right or on the left, amplifying and feeding some news circuit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there are problems, we do not ignore them. In fact, we will continue to talk about them today, but above all we will continue to act to solve them. Now, let's be clear: generalizing the idea that the National Health Service doesn't work, that what you live is chaos, it's not just an exaggeration, it's something that Portuguese know it doesn't correspond to reality. Let's not confuse the tree with the forest. Every day, there are about 150 000 professionals, doctors, nurses, senior technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants, who ensure the provision of health care in Portugal. There are thousands of medical acts, consultations, examinations, screenings, episodes of emergencies that are daily practised in public health establishments and which represent, at no cost to the citizens, 70% of the health care provided in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u245	Are there challenges? Of course there are challenges. Challenges that are not, in fact, exclusive to our Portuguese health system, the SNS, because the problems we live in Portugal are problems that we encounter in the general nature of European health systems as we know them. Just look at what is happening in the English health system, or at the pressure that occurs in the emergencies in France, or at the shortage of resources from the German system. It is in these common problems that we are focused on and in which we are not only concentrated today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We didn't wake up for them today. Otherwise, let us see: the last seven years have been an example of the appreciation of human capital. The left should not regret, it should be proud of what we have done together — the replacement of 35 hours, the replacement of wage cuts, the replacement and valuation of overtime payments, wage increases, the regulation of health professions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Investment in SNS, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than you doubled. The current expenditure increased by 60 %. The National Health Service has hired more than 25,000 workers, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We should not regret that. However, we do not ignore the problems. We know that we have tired professionals, that the excessive use of overtime needs to be reviewed, that the excessive use of service adaptation needs to be revised. We have heard, in fact, recently, the thrilling testimony of a doctor explaining that health professions are becoming less attractive. But he also explained that this is not only about pay issues, that the need for reconciliation with family life, with the hardness of night work, shift work, rigidity in the relationship with the State creates difficulties for professionals. We respond with confidence, we respond with what we are doing, with the Statute of the National Health Service, with a full dedication instrument that will enable us to value those who want to fully wear the SNS shirt, voluntarily, gradually involving professionals and their representatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A second problem is organization and planning. And once again, we respond with the Statute. Yes, the Statute adopted just eight months ago. A new organic, a new executive director responsible for the implementation of health policies, a Statute that gives more autonomy to organizations in the procurement of human resources, in day-to-day management, but above all an organic that favours the integration and articulation of all levels of care, attended by local agents and citizens. The third problem is the increase in public expenditure. It is true that public spending on health, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it must continue to increase. It is true that we made a path of 1 % of GDP ( gross domestic product) in 1970, before the creation of the SNS, to 10 % of the gross domestic product expected to invest, bringing us closer to the European Union. We did it with the PS, we will continue to do it with the PS. But it is also true that today we live longer, that we live with more burden of disease, that we live with new chronic diseases that require therapy, technology and more investment. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all these dimensions, the dimensions of these problems are complex and help us to understand that the moment we live, as I said, does not sympathize with a speech on the left, not all, and especially on the right, simplistic, chaos, ideological blindness, amplification of news reports or news openings. As the new executive director recently explained, transformations are urgent, rapid transformations that give security, confidence to citizens, to ensure, above all, the link between care structures, to plan for 10 years the needs of human resources, to look at health careers in the perspective of the new generation of professionals. But it's been eight months, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The new Statute of the National Health Service was approved just eight months ago and gives us the necessary instruments. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u246	Mr Rui Cristina, to whom I give the floor, wrote for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u247	Thank you very much, Madam President. I just heard Mr. Luís Soares, who said there was a great investment in the SNS. So let's make an account there, Mr. Member : from 2016 to 2022, taking the year 2021, which was a year of covid-19, do you know what was the rate of execution at the level of investment of this government? It was 50%, sir! It was 50%! There are always big jokes and big announcements from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health saying that this will be the biggest investment ever, as happened in 2022, which was EUR 509 million, if I am not mistaken. Do you know what the execution rate was in 2022? It was 45%! This is the real reality of what the Socialist Party is always begging for. [[PSD applause.]] He said recently, through Mr Ventura, that the PSD has no proposals. There are proposals, yes, ladies and gentlemen, and they have been presented in the Committee on Health — in fact, I understand the gaffe of the honourable Member, since it is not part of it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u248	To reply, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased that the PSD uses the PS intervention to respond to the arrival. We don't get into your wigs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u250	On the substance of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has all the legitimacy for this or other debates to intervene with a serious contribution to what it believes is the best way to the National Health Service, but there is, if I may, a advice that I leave to you: before thinking about the future, they must make an act of contrition as to who your contribution was in the past. Balance? Health professionals, Portuguese citizens know well. in this measure, Mr Rui Cristina, I believe that no one wants to remember...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u251	Your implementation rate of 40 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u252	... the period between 2011 and 2015, in which cuts in wages, cuts in extraordinary hours, cuts in the investment of the National Health Service were the stamp and brand that brings us the image of the PSD so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u253	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u254	Mrs. President. Mrs. Members: We have heard very carefully at our bench Mr. João Dias, the PCP, and Mrs. Catarina Martins, BE, who made a diagnosis of the SNS, forgetting that for several years they supported Ms. Minister Marta Temid, who listened to the International when she was nervous and who was responsible for the approval, with your consent, of this new SNS Statute. In fact, this great figure of the CEO of health was also presented with your announcement. But this SNS Statute and the CEO of health are like a runaway bus that hits the wall of reality. Do you know why, Your Honor? We are on the ground and I want to tell you that today I have been in a demonstration of farmers — to whom I send a big hug — and they themselves know what is going on in Portugal. See what they say on the street: « We do not want to be Venezuela. » That's it! And that is what your amendment proposals want to be, that is, statisticating proposals, that want to group all health in the hands of the State, which, we know very well, is a bad manager and will bring problems, indeed, is already bringing problems to health. The phrase we saw today in the large band used in the demonstration was the following: « Against the incompetence that governs us! In fact, the incompetence that governs us also expresses itself in this new CEO of health, because this new CEO of health, who earns 11 000 €/month and spends 10 million euros per year in his office, the only thing he does is to close services.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u255	What's already closed?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u256	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, shut down services. We have had Mr President of the Independent Medical Union in the Health Committee to tell us that reorganizing is just an euphemism to close.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u257	But what's already closed?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u258	So that's what was said. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be true. We have seen with specific cases the state to which this came: after a six-year management, an absolute majority and two health ministers yesterday, 11 doctors, heads of service, resigned. This news doesn't even open the news from so far as it is. The hospital in question, which was already an EPE (business public entity) says, by the voice of its own doctors, that it was once a model and revolutionary hospital in the approach of patient management and that now lives the worst moments in its history. This is just the tip of the iceberg from a situation that exists throughout the country, since at Dona Estefânia Hospital, the end-of-line hospital for children, pedopsychiatry services are closed. And see: the intention of these services is to control children with medication or even by force, until there are pediatricians available.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u259	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u260	At Évora's hospital, a 82-year-old man died in emergencies, which had already been chosen. He died with no one to understand. When they tried to move him from the monkey to the chair, they realized he was dead. This was done in front of other patients who were waiting, a 24-hour wait in the emergency room.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u261	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u262	In the Algarve, a doctor at INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) had to transport a heart patient in his own car, led by the woman, because there were no ambulances available. In Setúbal, a father saw his daughter die in his arms, after an hour and a half waiting for an ambulance and nine calls to INEM, where they lied to him saying that the ambulance was already on its way and that is why he didn't get in his own car and went to the hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u263	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u264	I shall conclude, Madam President. While we see this incompetence from north to south of the country, the Health Commission of this Parliament, because of PS Members, takes more than six months to approve a parliamentary visit to the Algarve and agenda more than half a dozen hearings due to access to abortion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u265	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u266	I shall conclude, Madam President. These are experimentalisms in health, with a lot of prosa and laughs from the Minister, but what is happening in this country is too serious to continue. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u267	Mr Guilherme Almeida, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that are under discussion and that aim to change the current Statute of the National Health Service are a missed opportunity. The fact is that this Statute shows the government's inability to sustain the degradation of the SNS and to increase the responsiveness and attractiveness of the public health service. On the part of the extreme-left parties, once again, we heard a baffling statism that has given our country such bad results. The latest example of the degradation in the SNS is in the hospital of Loures, where the pediatric emergency service began to close at night and during the weekend due to the lack of pediatricians and where emergency chiefs resigned in block due to lack of minimum conditions to provide quality health care. What these professionals have said and users should be careful about this Parliament. The current SNS model suffers from lack of family physicians, lack of specialists, having medical teams working on the limit for too long, unattractive careers, little investment in training and poor working conditions. The SNS needs a new reformist vision in which ideological prejudice gives rise to quality of service, management efficiency, autonomy in hiring, career appreciation, recognition of professionals and, above all, to the rights and interests of health service users. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD understands and defends the health system as an open system, where the public provider, being the pillar of the system, should cohabit with other private and social providers, without any ideological reserve, that is not the search for efficiency, the improvement of quality and the guarantee of equitable and universal access. The proposals submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group within the framework of the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August go in this direction and pave the way for this social-democratic reformist ambition. We will see carefully how they will be voted on by the current socialist majority. Time is urgent and the SNS can't wait much longer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u269	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When talking about SNS it was good for us to talk about problems and solutions. See: there is nothing more like an emergency closed in a hospital with public management than an emergency closed in a PPP. And Loures closed as PPP, as it closes now, because he has no doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u271	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u272	in the same way, it is not worth saying that this careers was even very good, because even 35 hours are in force. The doctors didn't have 35 hours before, nor do they have 35 hours now. I don't know if the Socialist Party Members have noticed, but talking about the 35 hours for doctors is absurd! The doctor's employment contract was never 35 hours, neither before nor after, so that's not the problem either. The problem is that wages are shamefully low. The problem is that there are no working conditions. The problem is that in the negotiations now, the government all they propose is to lower the price of extraordinary hours and still want to put older doctors forced to make emergencies, which means that there will be more doctors leaving the National Health Service. There is a story that serves all public services, and the Socialist Party is a portrait of this disastrous political history of European democracies: it puts a public service to work badly, so that the people do not trust and it is said that the only solution is to privatize. It privatizes and gets worse for the whole country. That's what the Socialist Party is doing with the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u273	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u274	I say one thing to you, Mr Luís Soares, and I conclude by concluding that you have finished your speech with a Cavaquist "let us work" is an illustration of this position. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u275	To close this debate, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u276	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, which was no longer, has served to make clear the positions that each of us has in relation to the National Health Service and has confirmed the political orientation of the PS when it affirms its pride in this Statute of the National Health Service but does not solve the problems of the SNS. Despite crying crocodile tears in relation to the SNS, the truth is that, from the whole list of proposals here, when we observe and evaluate its scope and effects, clearly, we see that its choice is by the end of the National Health Service as we conceive it. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Arrival say constantly that the PCP has been on the PS side for six years.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u277	Is that a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u278	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been four years of troika, of which you miss. And it's at that time that you want to go back, because at that time they were in the PSD and CDS. You miss that time. [[CH protests.]] Because I am absolutely sure that the Portuguese population does not miss any of those times, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. What happens at Beatriz Angelo Hospital is, in fact, quite worrying. It is unacceptable that today's lack of investment, which is denied to that hospital and to so many other public structures, leads to these difficulties they are facing. In fact, the lack of health professionals is more felt in structures than in others, in specialities than in others. But would it be fair to compare PPP management with public management? It's not fair, because we're comparing completely different things. [[Protests by PS Deputies Luís Soares and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]] We are talking about a public management with a complete lack of autonomy, which cannot hire the health professionals you need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u279	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u280	We're talking, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, difficulties that are created. You see: when the private management of the Luz Saúde Group, which had it and did not want it—and although the government wanted to deliver it—the anesthetists left. Do you know how many anesthetists we have today at Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures? Fifteen! Do you know how many they need? Thirty! So we can see the difficulties that exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u281	Well, well! [[Why did they leave?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u282	You want to compare what's incomparable? PPPs are limited to meeting what they have in contracts. When patients have complex situations that are not in contracts, do you know what they do?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u283	Send them away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u284	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo said that we have no examples, but what is more in this country are examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u285	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u286	I conclude, Madam President. What is more, there are examples of users who, being in these complex situations, were sent to other hospitals. This was what happened in Braga, Vila Franca and also at Beatriz Angelo Hospital, in Loures. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests and PCP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep quiet. Let us turn to agenda item 4, which is generally discussed by Bill 458 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Rules of Procedure ( amendment to Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February approving the Rules of Procedure ), 486 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Rules of Procedure, as approved by Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February 2008 to exempt public officials from costs, in criminal proceedings for an offence suffered in the performance of their duties, or because of them, 578 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime, 579 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Alter the Rules of Procedure, exempting all workers and their families, in matters of labour law, from the payment of procedural costs irrespective of how they are represented in judgment and annual income taken, and 586 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure access to law and courts by amending the Rules of Procedure and Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u288	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to justice should be universal and have no economic barriers, but that is not what is happening in our country. The current Rules of Procedure are a clear and unequivocal barrier to access to justice. We know that if we had done what we have already done in the past — trying to change the Rules of Procedure in a thorough and structural way — the Socialist Party would soon say « cannot be, it cannot be, because we need this money for justice to work». So, to escape from this accusation and from this passadism that the Socialist Party permanently says it cannot be but lets walk, we bring some of the most absurd criteria that currently exist in this Rules of Procedure and whose correction, in addition to bringing better access to justice, would have almost no charge to the State. At present, someone who participates in an action in a court has to pay a court fee, but may be exempted from doing so in some cases. It is called a dispensation of the previous payment of the fee of justice. At the end of this process, it is referred to who is responsible for this payment and, as a general rule, is the winning party who has first to pay the fees of justice and then ask for the reimbursement of that payment to the party who has been paid. Does this make any sense? It makes no sense at all. This legislative inconsistency is shown in some specific cases of people's lives. Why does she exist? Because if it is part of the assumption that, even in justice, there must be payment of the user-payer, such 'procedural impulse' : whoever initiates a process must be obliged to pay for this charge that justice has. I will not mention even what it means to apply the user-payer's impulse to the model of justice, when justice is one of the essential assets of the rule of law. But this legislative inconsistency shows that, for example, in cases of criminal proceedings that have been deduced against an arguado of a cable application—then, it is not even the very one that triggers this procedural impulse—that can challenge the process, it can win it and, however, it is the one responsible for the payment because it has won that process. It may then run after the injury and say « attention, but the payout must -I have this payment». However, the truth is that it has already paid for the first time and may come to have even more costs, to be compensated, often not even to be compensated. Does this make any sense? It makes no sense at all. It is the reality that exists today. The same applies to the processes of jurisdiction of minors or other processes about the state of persons, such as divorces without the consent of the other spouse, in which there are direct difficulties added in processes that are already complex. Does it make sense? Don't do it. And that is why we see with good eyes, for example, the opinion of the Advocates' Order on this matter, which says something as simple as this: "We understand that the proposed amendment appears right and fair. In fact, the current regime creates an unjustified charge for the party who, having gained cause and, as such, is not responsible for the payment of costs, must first have to bear the payment of the court fee in order to subsequently have to claim its reimbursement as part costs. Do not keep on seeking. ” Again, the absurdity of reality must be changed and I believe that now the argument that it costs the State no longer makes sense, and this cannot be removed by the Socialist Party, which will have to invent new arguments to chum something that is absolutely trivial and currently required in the Portuguese courts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u289	To present the bill of arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u290	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we enter this Chamber, even here on our right side, we have the statue of Justice. And what we have seen here today is one of the things that we have been most concerned about since the party's genesis. Justice and, so many times, injustice, but, above all, reform in the judicial system that is needed, once and for all, to think. Today we're talking about fees. In recent days we have talked about the progression of various careers linked to justice. Other days we talk about the prison system. We continue to try to solve the cut which has been a consequence of tens of years of socialism — not socialism was the principle of the social state trying to bring together all and do justice justly for all. But that's not what's going on. We are at a time when the PRR determines that modernisation and digitisation should be great bets, and justice is included in this administrative reform. The justice that says that even today, any lawyer who wants to consult a trial or has it for you has to travel to the court, consult dozens and dozens of appendices and, if you want to take the trial to work, you have to digitize it. Modernization and administrative digitization have not yet reached the courts, allowing justice to be done in a just manner. Today, we have an essentially expensive justice, in which people, in order to be able to resort to justice — and in this we agree with some of the bills that are currently under discussion — are obliged to pay and are so often limited in their access to justice due to lack of money. There are others who are initially forced to pay the trial and who see the return of that money stand pending: eventually, at the end. It is almost like making an account of savings reform, with the slowness that justice has in Portugal, and leaving to the State everything that is the cost. As far as our proposal is concerned, the Commission proposes essentially that the costs of public servants or others who are performing public-interest functions in the criminal proceedings for an offence suffered in the performance of their duties or because of them be exempted. In other words, we understand that it is true that, today, the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the event of an offense, can do or try an action. But when we arrive at the right to return property rights, the Public Ministry, or the State, no longer defends: do not defend the police, do not defend the teachers, do not defend the workers of the Tax Authority, do not defend the nurses, do not defend the doctors. It shall therefore remain the action of property rights by the offender himself, who may or may not have financial availability to move forward with money for an action. This could be a just and right justice for all, but we know that the judicial system is not so, and this small step that the Arrival intends to take is essentially to resolve an injustice for all those who defend the Public Administration, but who, above all, defend the State and the Nation. When we look around, we realize that this justice is so organized that it will not be just these small steps that we propose to solve this problem. We need serious reform and in particular call on the parties on the right to realize that we have very little time to organize ourselves, to set up a right-wing government and make a serious reform of justice in Portugal. Otherwise, as it is, the only thing they are going to give us is today's news, in which José Socrates says that the government's failures paralyze its own judgment, the « Marquis Operation», in which José Socrates refers to its « Simplex» in justice — those words you so much like — but says that the state is directly responsible for the last 9 of the 10 years of delay. What we have is a standstill justice: fully overcrowded courts, staff without career progression and all those who work for the nation to have to pay legal costs if they are eventually assaulted or offended in the exercise of their function, on which we do not agree. We present this project because we believe that we need to take small steps to reform justice. From here we actually have to work together, and the whole right has to realize once and for all that we cannot continue with a vision of justice as we currently have in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u291	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are a little more than one month away from celebrating another anniversary of the April Revolution, a moment that has transformed Portugal, in which the path to freedom has been opened and the building of rights that have been shaped in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. When we say—and the CFP has said—that what is missing in this country is not to destroy or adulterate its constitutional heritage, but to comply with the constitutional commands and deepen them, we have a demonstration in the matter of justice itself. Says paragraph 1 of 20. the article of the Constitution reads: "All persons shall be guaranteed access to the right and to courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests, and justice shall not be denied due to insufficient economic means. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is a fundamental provision in a democracy, in a rule of law worthy of that name, and needs to be brought into practice and not contested, as was done by PS and PSD over decades. It needs to be true in the lives of everyone in this country, whether they have a low salary, as the general population has, or have higher incomes. But also for those who are not lacking enough to have access to legal aid — and it is necessary to be in need of it — cease to defend their interests, because they cannot afford to start a process. The majority of the population have no economic means to bear the costs and the delay of a judicial process. But if everyone is not guaranteed access to justice, then there is no true realization of justice. It is true that there are two justices: one for citizens or businesses with high economic resources and one for the common citizen, who lives from his work and who often ceases to exercise his interests and rights simply because he does not have money. If we join the timeliness of the functioning of the courts, the still small dimension of the Peace Courts, the very limited social scope of these judicial support mechanisms, the costs with the lawyers' fees, and what we are discussing here, the high value of the costs to be borne by the use of the courts, it is easy to see that there is no justice for all. This is class justice. And a class justice that, by not being speedy, by not being accessible, by not being equal to all, as no one can deny, is not, is not justice. from the uncomplicated cost of access to courts to the lack of human and technological means to combat high crime, passing through the precarious conditions of the prison court, to the lack of human resources in all areas or because the socio-professional situation is outraged by the various judicial operators, all this exists, all this is sad, all this is part of a two-time justice. What we propose is urgent, i.e. that the House should give the necessary impetus to the legal review of judicial costs, with the creation of a mission unit which, given the complexity and implications of the matter, is empowered to deal with the matter in the next six months. This proposal we are bringing here is absolutely essential for progress to be made towards justice, which can only be done by ensuring everyone's access to law and courts. It is not tolerable a country in which justice is only accessible to those who can pay it. It is necessary to comply effectively with the constitutional right of all citizens with access to law and judicial protection. Justice is a framework of the democratic rule of law. That's right! And remove it from people's lives, weakening the rule of democratic law, endangers democracy itself. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u293	To present the draft law of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u294	You've got two minutes, okay, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u295	Madam President: Access to law and to courts are rights with constitutional consecration because, as it is usually said, there is no state of democratic law without justice. However, as we all know, access to courts is conditional on the costs associated with justice. This is especially serious when there are great power differentials in those who can be complaining in court proceedings. In particular, let us remember what happens in labour law. It is one of the most common sources of litigation, most often motivated by reasons that weaken workers' rights. The current Rules of Procedure, exempt from the fee of justice, workers and family members who are represented by the Public Prosecutor's Office and by the legal services of the trade unions, provided they are free of charge. It therefore excludes from this exemption the representation as a lawyer, even if it is pro bono, and also by an informal representative. The Ombudsman in 2010 has already recommended that the Government extend the exemption to this possibility of representation, but has never had an answer. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure assume the presumption of economic insufficiency of workers who increased an annual income by up to €20,400. And so it has been since 2008, without updating. This, of course, disregards the evolution of the economic circumstances of society, which is also awarded by a pandemic that brings new conflicts — societies that close, workers who go home and are never again called, telework — which have significantly increased conflict and labour disputes, as is usually the case with all economic crises. In this draft of the Free, it is argued that the exemption from the rate of justice in actions brought on account of labour matters is not associated with income, even because the bulk of conflict is not led by workers who are financially more stocked. It is understood that this measure does not expose litigation, not only because no one resorts to the court lightly, as because the Rules of Procedure blame the workers, even if they are exempt, for paying the charges they gave to the proceedings, if they are fully defeated in action. One of the functions of the law is to stand between the weakest and the strongest, and this is very clear in the law of work. But soon we will be on the side of the weakest in the law if we do not give them the opportunity to exercise their rights in justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u296	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u297	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have three justices in Portugal. A first justice for the rich, for those to whom access to justice is not a problem, for those who have the possibility to pay legal costs, fees to lawyers, remedies, everything necessary, even to drag proceedings to the prescription to exempt themselves from any responsibility, even when they have read the State or different individuals. A second justice for the very poor, for those who unfortunately meet the strict legal support requirements, taking into account the maximum value of family income, necessary to be exempt from legal costs and fees of lawyers. And finally, we have a justice for others, for the middle class, considered too rich to access judicial support, but too poor to bear legal costs and legal fees, and for whom access to justice is often not a real option. We are talking about workers, parents, victims of crimes, citizens who understand that they are being wrongly charged a debt, citizens to whom some credit is due, small entrepreneurs, among so many other situations. Justice cannot be denied to all these people, in all these situations, because justice is not a luxury good, it is a right, and a fundamental right provided for in our Constitution. It must also not be the same, for example, for the State to put in the service of the private sector, so that road PPPs can charge fees, but then deny adequate access to citizens. thus, the NAP proposes, with this initiative it presents today, an effective guarantee of access to law and courts by all citizens. On the one hand, ensuring access to justice with the limited, per port, value to which judicial costs may rise, preventing prohibitive costs that prevent citizens from resorting to courts. On the other hand, it is intended to ensure that all workers are exempted from work law and from occupational accidents and diseases, regardless of how they are represented, in which it is not excluded who is represented by a judicial agent, as currently provided for and which questions the principle of equality itself. Finally, this initiative aims to compensate for the exemptions and limitations proposed, paying those who contend with evil, those who know before they contend with disloyalty, harming the judicial system itself and the access of others. A justice that is accessible to all is an imperative of a democratic rule of law and which we can finally achieve through these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u298	No one hits Inês!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u299	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u300	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing a number of legislative initiatives on judicial costs today, all of which consider them exorbitantly high. And indeed you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 20. the, guarantees access to justice and courts and expressly provides that no one can be deprived of recourse to justice for reasons of economic insufficiency. But the Constitution is not being fulfilled. There are many citizens and companies who do not have economic possibilities to resort to courts when their rights are violated. In view of the wording in our Basic Law, we could think that this economic insufficiency is irrelevant and that recourse to justice is guaranteed. Only not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! From that point of view, we also have a very high procedural costs, but we also have a very poor system of access to law and courts that hinders the possibility of covering any citizen beyond the threshold of indigentity. Anyone wishing to attempt action to defend their legitimate rights must have paid economic resources that allow them to pay the initial rate of justice, which is variable according to the value of the action. This adds to all other charges, such as payments for the realization of expertise, which are very expensive, or requests for clarifications and appearances of the experts in discussion and trial hearings, which are also paid and expensive. Just see, for example, the bill of payment of charges from a medical-legal expertise to the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences or a computer expertise to the Laboratory of Scientific Police of the Judicial Police. At the end of the proceedings, you may still have to pay the remainder in the part of the decline of the action, if any. The higher the value of the action, the higher the costs, without any limit or weighting, of a blind and discretionary logic. And whoever is sued, and is not supplied, passes a real storm because, if he is not practically in need and his family aggregate also, he is not granted legal support, even though he cannot stop challenging the action on the penalty of being soon condemned in the request. The value of procedural costs is an authentic denial of justice and creates a gap between those who have and those who do not have economic possibilities, which cannot be tolerated. [[PSD applause.]] It is about allowing access to the foundations of the democratic rule of law: the realization of justice and social peace. It is necessary to change the amounts and tables of the judicial costs, adapting them to the reality of a country with a severely frightening poverty rate and living with extreme difficulties, which even impact on the level of food, with many families not having money to feed their children. It is also urgent to reformulate the system of access to law in order to allow the common citizen to benefit, including in the form of exemption from payment of legal fees and other charges of prosecution and forensic sponsorship. I recall that at the end of 2016, the then Minister of Justice, Dr. Francisca Van Dunem, promised to revise the law on access to law and courts, but only at the end of the XIII legislature is that the Government has submitted a proposal, having no time for the legislative process. The proposal was so bad and received so many criticisms from the forum professionals who no longer saw the light of the day, however, the Minister of Justice acknowledged the need to change the value of judicial costs and to promise to do so, as well as to review the system of access to law. Until today, nothing! I recall that, within the last State budget, the PSD presented proposals 624 - C and 631 - C, respectively, for the reduction of costs and for the revision of access to law, which were plunged by the Socialist Party. This history, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not wish anything good with regard to the intentions of the Government to solve a serious entropy, which affects thousands of citizens and businesses. With regard to the initiatives under discussion today, seeking to introduce some amendments to the Rules of Procedure and even the creation of a mission unit to reflect on the review of costs, we recognize the kindness of the initiatives and the intention to improve the system. But many are redundant, even in the text of the law — such as that of the Arrival — and do not solve the exorbitance of costs, the impossibility of accessing the system of access to the law by deprived companies and citizens and the perception that there is one justice for the rich and the other for the poor. This perception, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is at stake. The overall review of the Rules of Procedure and the system of access to law is urgent and the Minister of Justice has already said, in a recent regiment hearing, that she was not going to lower the costs. Moreover, on costs, what is stated in the Government's programme is that citizens will be returned to the citizens who have given up pending proceedings in court, as a way to combat the laziness and delays of the courts. Greater defamation and immobilism is hard to imagine! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u301	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State continues to fail in what is one of its most basic functions — it therefore fails to access to justice. We cannot fail to point out that the same PS that wants to give housing accessible to Portuguese is the same PS that cannot even guarantee an accessible and functional judicial system for all. Currently, this judicial system is conditioned to a large part of the population, by a set of factors, all of them of the responsibility of the Executives who ruled us in recent decades. The high judicial costs, which all recognize as disproportionate and inadequate to our country, coupled with the inability to produce wealth and give better income to Portuguese, condemn the population to resort to a system of access to law and courts that leaves out to the middle-low class. That is to say, it leaves out a large part of the Portuguese population. The Minister of Justice may well announce the digitization of requests for legal aid, but the computer will continue to deny legal support even to those who are effectively experiencing financial difficulties. This is a disrespect for those who are the fundamental rights of access to effective judicial law and protection. The Government cannot claim that there is freedom of access to law and to courts when it is conditioned by the low financial resources of the Portuguese. The government is not responding to this, or because it can't, or because it doesn't want to. This is a problem that needs a serious approach on the part of the Government, which has an obligation to hear both civil society and the judiciary, and to understand what budgetary changes need to be made, apply them in a comprehensive way, in a revision of the Rules of Procedure, and in the other judicial support legislation. Having said that, we do not see that much of these proposals under consideration are a real solution. They are proposals that do not carry out concepts that neither affect nor favour economic or financial capacity, but rather the profession or the professional class. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, access to justice is a right that must exist fairly for all Portuguese. Otherwise it will be a denial of justice or the justice of some or some.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u304	The Liberal Initiative will work and will always contribute to a response that meets a justice that fits into 2023 and to the economic context in which we find ourselves and also a justice that serves all, i.e. that it is not discriminatory because of the social stratum or the professional situation, and that it serves and protects especially the most vulnerable. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, now you won't tell me that this is judicial populism. I'll tell you what judicial populism is. It is, for example, to say that I am getting drunk, not to say worse words, for the secret of justice, as happened with a figure of the Socialist Party, which, by chance, ascended the second figure of the State. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u305	And if populism is to expose the incompetence of the socialist government, we live very well with it and we will continue to do so. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u306	Mr Paulo Araújo Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by saying that, when opposed, the PSD incorporates a nice figure, which is that of the Christmas Father; a sort of Christmas Father with a bag full of easy measures and gifts to distribute to all Portuguese. That, in itself, would have no problem. The problem is that when the PSD is called to exercise government functions, it already incorporates the Grinch figure, which does everything to ruin Christmas to the Portuguese. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] This dichotomy between the PSD in the opposition and the PSD in the government is already known by the Portuguese, Mr Deputy. That is why, in successive elections, you have not been worthy of the confidence of the Portuguese, unlike the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to mention the quality of the proposal presented here by the Party. Unfortunately, Mr Bruno Nunes is no longer present, he will certainly have had very important tasks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u308	Look back!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u309	... but what I wanted to mention is that the quality of the proposal is inversely proportional to the decibels that the Party comes here to present its proposals. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] And I'm not the one who says it. Mr President, it is not high that I am not the one who says so; who says so is the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which clearly states that your proposals are redundant, since they propose exemptions already existing in the Rules of Procedure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's initiatives concern one of the most structural and relevant dimensions of the construction of our democratic rule of law: the guarantee of access to the courts. The truth is that, as has already been said, this guarantee deserves constitutional protection, being enshrined in Article 20 (1). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which establishes very clearly that justice cannot be denied to any citizen due to economic insufficiency. This is a constitutional principle which, I think, mobilizes all of us and deserves a broad agreement from this House, as seen from the interventions that preceded me. However, this constitutional guarantee cannot, in our view, delink itself at all from the country's economic reality. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] In order for us to understand, only between 2015 and 2022, the Ministry of Justice spent approximately EUR 1000 million on legal support and in related cases, in fulfilling this constitutional obligation to ensure that economically more fragile people have access to justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u310	There's only 26 Members on the bench when it's 120! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u311	They will tell me that the government is only fulfilling a constitutional obligation. But it also seems to me to be advised not to disregard the degree of commitment of the Government of the Republic to this matter. Therefore, for the sake of a serious debate, it is also necessary to say that it is also constitutionally admissible — in fact, as you have understood in the case-law of the Constitutional Court — the establishment of the requirement of a counterparty by the provision of administration services of justice, provided that access to justice by the citizen of medium income is not compromised, while ensuring that those who are economically more vulnerable continue to find ways of supporting the State to enforce its rights. This is, as I said, the firm jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which is doctrinally accompanied by reference constitutionalists such as Gomes Canotilho or Vital Moreira. In fact, the freeness of justice could end the pernicious effect of facilitating the judicialization of baggage and thus hinder the prompt intervention of the courts in urgent cases. This framework also seems to us to have a broad consensus in this House that it is indeed necessary to revise the Rules of Procedure. However, we are no longer aware that such intervention and review can be carried out in a narrow way, with bold proposals and redundant proposals, as the result of the party's proposal, and should, rather, be guided by an integrated, global vision, shared by all judicial operators. The fact is that, contrary to what the PSD has said, it has already been announced publicly by the Minister of Justice that the revision of the Judicial Costs Regulation is being finalized, making exactly an integrated, participated comprehensive analysis, which will also allow an analysis of the proposals presented here - at least those that are viable, which are the ones that propose valid solutions. Certainly, in this debate, after having been submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, we will be able to review the issue of procedural costs in a manner that effectively takes into account the legitimate aspirations of the Portuguese. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore urges the Government of the Republic to be able to print the speed necessary for the completion of this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u312	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u313	Every time you point your finger, look at your bench. There's only 26 Members on the bench when it's 120! Lack of notion! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u314	Madam President, when you have the opportunity to start talking, I will do so. In the meantime, I'm not going to spend time talking over anyone. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. Well, the problem, sirs. Members—in particular, Mr Paul Araújo Correia—is that, if there is anything that characterizes the various ministers of justice is this attitude to constantly promise, to ensure, to announce that the finalization of professional statutes, judicial costs,... Finally, there is always a set of aspects that are almost always almost ready.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u315	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u316	The fact is that we have not seen the results of this action and therefore, given the complexity of what it is, we believe that the Assembly of the Republic can, and must, take an attitude, in an integrated way. If the Assembly of the Republic understands — as I believe it is clear — that access to justice is a priority, such as the democratity of this access, then we advance, from the Assembly of the Republic, with the creation of this mission unit, with several actors who are empowered to do so, so that they can make the recommendations and concrete proposals at this level and also contribute, if the Minister of Justice is doing so, to review the legal cost regime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u317	To close this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u318	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the first conclusion of this debate is that no one has been able to deny, on the one hand, that there is an economic barrier to the current system of procedural costs, which becomes unavailable to many people in access to justice, and that this is an obstacle to the full implementation of the rule of law. The second thing that was unanimous is that the proposal that the Left Block brings — even because it has already been in force in the past — is of the most elementary wisdom. This is because it makes no sense what is currently in existence, which is the State charging citizens with legal costs paid to the State. No, no, no. It is the State which must have that obligation. Therefore, when Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia heard that he did not deny any of these aspects, he seemed to me until he accompanied the concerns, I believe that they then barge into a recurring reality in the Socialist Party, which also begins to be the reality of this Minister of Justice. It is that, studies, working groups, intentions, there are in the government. They're not missing! The problem is execution! Now, every day that passes, in a matter as fundamental as that of justice, there is more denial of access to justice. in this particular case — the example I gave, that the Advocates' Order has also given and has already been mentioned here by other Members — there is a misunderstanding about the fact that citizens, who do not even have to deal with the process that has been moved them, end up winning the process, but still have to pay. This is a misunderstanding that is absurd, because it makes no sense. Then there are other problems — particularly in cases of divorce — such as child protection, in which this reality is not only an economic issue, but a social complexity which the State imposes on processes that are usually already difficult. Every day we continue with this situation is another day when we are harming people’s lives. Now, I believe that this is so simple, so simple, so simple matters that it could not be questioned, in the name of a future review, that it will always be structural and that, or will leave everything in it, or will be throwing its changes into the timetables. That is why I propose to the Socialist Party that, as this matter is so punctual, we should not wait for the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, to wait for the times of justice, but for us to do justice to ensure that people are not affected by our choices. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u319	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. You now have the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel, to give us some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 599 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 602 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 3. a Commissions, 604 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 605 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, and 606 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 471 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 511 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), 512 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 513 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 514 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 515 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), 516 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 518 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-02.u321	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Having said that, I announce that tomorrow's plenary meeting begins at 10 a.m. on the next agenda. of the first item is the joint discussion of the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 516 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ; Resolution No 162 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government value the citizen's participation in electoral procedures by reviewing the compensation values for participation in voting assemblies; Draft resolution No 394 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Determines the preparation of the codification of electoral legislation; Draft resolution No 426 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government conduct a face-to-face electronic voting experience in mobility in the electoral circles of the communities; Request No. 30 / XV / 1. a ( Luís Humberto Pacheco Ferreira Teixeira ) — For a greater conversion of votes to mandates; Bill No. 377 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment of Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ; Bill No. 398 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes the legal regime applicable to civic clarification and to the right of antennae in the elections to the President of the Republic, Assembly of the Republic, Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira, European Parliament and bodies of local authorities as well as in national, regional and local referendums ; Bill No. 517 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Alter the Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic, reducing to 10 the number of electoral circles and creating an electoral circle of emigration and a national circle of compensation; Bill No. 518 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Other diplomas, extending the right to vote in advance in elections to local authorities and improving the electoral process in the circles of emigration in the elections to the Assembly of the Republic ; Bill No. 560 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Endorses the option of voting by correspondence, as an alternative to the face-to-face vote, to voters living abroad in the presidential elections and in the European elections, by amending the twenty-third amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April, which approves the electoral law for the European Parliament, and the seventh amendment to the legal regime of the electoral census, approved by Law No 13 / 99 of 22 March, and ensures the implementation of a non-binding electoral pilot project for voters living abroad; Bill No. 577 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends powers and strengthens support for the functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ( second amendment to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December ) ; Bill No. 581 / XV / 1. a (L) — Review the electoral laws, extending the range of ineligibility to the Assembly of the Republic ; establishing a national clearing circle; extending the electoral campaign period and voting by correspondence to the elections to the Presidency of the Republic and establishing rules relating to television debates, the removal of electoral propaganda and the possibility of international missions of observers; Bill No 582 / XV / 1. a (L) — Provides a deadline for the removal of electoral propaganda and determines that its violation constitutes counter-ordination, amending Law No 97/88 of 17 August in its current wording; Bill No 583 / XV / 1. a (L) — establishes a national commission for electoral debates and amends the law of electoral coverage; Bill No. 587 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the powers of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and the rights of their advisers by amending Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December; Bill No. 589 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. The second point deals with the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 466 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assess the seismic vulnerability of state buildings and equipment to be transferred to municipalities and intermunicipal communities, together with, in general, the Law Projects Nos 580 / XV / 1. a (L) — Risk indicator in case of earthquake, 585 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establish a national system to cover the risk of seismic phenomena and natural disasters and create the seismic fund and for natural disasters and 590 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend legislation with a view to strengthening the safety of buildings against earthquakes. of the third point is the discussion of the draft resolution No 469 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a possible parliamentary committee to ensure and prevent abusive political interference in the Portuguese banking system. The fourth point deals with the discussion of the Bill No. 558 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Establishs the composition, organization, operation and status of the Climate Action Council. Finally, the fifth and last points include the legislative votes. We are at the end of our session. Good afternoon to all and to all and until tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[It was 18 hours and 18 minutes.]]
