ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel for reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u2	Mr President, I am announcing the entry into the Bureau of several initiatives. First, I refer to Law No 106 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Bill No. 906 / XV / 2 also entered. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 907 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 908 / XV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 909 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 911 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 912 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 913 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 914 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 915 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 916 / XV / 2. a ( CH), 917 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 918 / XV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 921 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 922 / XV / 2. a ( BE), 924 / XV / 2. a ( CH), 925 / XV / 2. a ( CH), 926 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 927 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 928 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ). Resolution Projects No. 891 / XV / 2 have also been entered. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 892 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 893 / XV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 894 / XV / 2. a ( BE), 895 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), 896 / XV / 2. a ( PS ), 897 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 898 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 899 / XV / 2. a ( L), 900 / XV / 2. a ( L), 901 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), 904 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 905 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 906 / XV / 2. a ( PAN), 907 / XV / 2. a ( BE), 909 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 910 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 911 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 912 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), 913 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 914 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 915 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. Finally, I refer to motion for a resolution No 19 / XV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u3	Let us, then, get on with our agenda, which is now filled with political statements. Mr Filipe Melo has the floor to make a political statement on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to greet the Macedonians and the Portuguese people, who, this Sunday, were democratically voting on their choice of their regional government. They chose in conscience and decided — well! — that Miguel Albuquerque and the PSD did not deserve the so-called majority. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I also welcome the election of four Members of the Group of the European People's Party to the Regional Parliament. It is a pride to move from zero to four Members and that the arrival has practically the same votes as the sum of the votes of the Liberal Initiative, the parties of the extreme left and the PAN — which we do not know how to qualify today — in Madeira. It is undoubtedly a great result for the coming party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yesterday we also learned that there is an agreement between a hunter and the animal party. [[CH's laughs.]] Nothing more strange, nothing more improbable. But after a consultation on the web, I found out that the mixture of orange with green gives an improbable color. It's true, just look at the net: it's the llamacent brown. Think about it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] All about power games! And it's about the power I'm going to talk to you today. Since 2012, the President of the City Council of Lisbon, António Costa, had said the following: « TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) should not — it should not! — be privatized but integrated into a large Latin American company. » It was then referred to LATAM, a merger between a Brazilian company and a Chilean company. I understood António Costa that a large Atlantic hub should be consolidated, adding that the acquisition of TAP by groups outside this axis would be an irreparable loss. At the time, he enumerated even British Airways and Iberia. Strangely or not, this year, Antonio Costa Silva, Minister of the Economy and the Sea, offered the same TAP to Iberia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Socialist Party has used to us! But there are more: in June 2015, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, António Costa, candidate for the elections that same year, told journalists that TAP was being used as a factor of political confrontation and considered a scandal to TAP to have been sold by values lower than those practiced in the football market. Yes, this was the comparison that António Costa made : compared TAP to the football player market! Another question is: Mr. Prime Minister, what about today? And today, how much is this TAP gonna be sold for? We still don't know, not yet told us that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But you don't stay here. António Costa, in December 2015, already having taken a place that the Portuguese did not confer on him, said as Prime Minister, that he would resume the capital of TAP, with or without the agreement of the privates. I repeat, with or without the agreement of the privates, these were the words of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, who added: « The State will resume 51% of the capital of TAP. » Antonio Costa's promise to the management of the extreme left was fulfilled. This was the promise he made to them, and this was the only promise he has ever been able to honor. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u5	Today is the day. 'TAP is certainly on its way to a stable solution, which assures Portugal that its airline is essential for our territorial continuity, for our link to the world, for the economic development of the country' — these were the words of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u7	on that same day, he further threatened: « If necessary, we will proceed with an act of state taxation. We'll be there for that. » All right, all are arguments for the state to keep TAP. And we ask: what about today, Prime Minister? And today, isn't it necessary to keep a flag company? Is territorial continuity no longer necessary? Have you forgotten our connection to the world, our connection to the diaspora?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u9	Mr. Prime Minister, words like that, take you to the wind. But it has more: in January 2023, António Costa said here from the government bench, that we are at a stage of the total or partial alienation process of the company. António Costa, as windsock from airports, changes his opinion as the political wind favors him. It listed the stability in the company as one of the factors of the sale, and it is true that the parliamentary commission of inquiry showed how much this stability was needed. But what stability can a company have when it has a secretary of state to ask the CEO (executive chief officer) of the company to alter a flight to please Mr President of the Republic? What stability can a company have when a minister authorizes, by SMS (short message service), a compensation of half a million euros? What stability can a company have when, within the ministry that even has the sectoral guardianship of the company, they go to the corner because of a computer that contains information from that company? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, if this is the stability that Mr. Prime Minister wants, this is not the stability that we want for a company like TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u11	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the 14th of this month, the House of Deputies of Brazil met to discuss the entry into the capital of TAP. I doubt many of you here know about this meeting. It was a meeting where the Brazilian Minister of Tourism was also present, the same as he met here a week earlier in Portugal with the new CEO of TAP. What's the reason? We don't know. Mr. Prime Minister has forgotten that, before being discussed in the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies, this matter should be - here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u13	... because this is where Mr. Prime Minister has to give evidence, this is where Mr. Prime Minister has to take responsibility for what is a public company, this is where he should start the debate and that Mr. Prime Minister should tell who, as much as and when the most strategic and important Portuguese company we have ever had is to be sold. [[PSD MP Protests António Topa Gomes.]] Mr. Prime Minister, one thing is certain: it can continue with your charming operations; we will be here to examine it, and for us it will certainly not pass. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u14	For a political declaration on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u15	No one asked anything, you got it all figured out! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative scheduled for next Friday the discussion of its Universal System of Access to Health, the SUS-Health. Nevertheless, we have chosen today to dedicate this political declaration to the U.S. Health, because the issue is essential to the well-being of the Portuguese and this has to be discussed, it has to be discussed beyond the grid, necessarily limited, on Friday and it has to be discussed now. We want to discuss this issue now, for now, because we know that the ideas of the Liberal Initiative are slow to enter the agenda and that they delay to recognize - the reason we have when we bring them to the agenda - was the case of TAP, the case of tax reduction. Better late than never! And if it's worth more late than ever, it's good to start looking at the SUS-Health as the solution to the problems of the SNS (National Health Service).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u18	Above all, we have to discuss this now because the system is — and there is no other word, I am sorry! — collapse. It is no longer for people, health professionals or taxpayers. And, in order to show that it is not for people, it didn't need to go back much enough today's news about what's going on in the health center of São João das Lampas, here in Sintra, that four months ago you don't have a single doctor, or in the health center of Lever, in the municipality of Gaia, who also remained without doctors this month. But I can go back more, if you like that language that: there are hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people who do not have or have surgeries, or consultations, or the possibility to take care of their health centres; there are competitions that are completely vague, because professionals are not interested in these vacancies; there is no incentive for people to use preventive medicine, nor for the screening of diseases. The satisfaction of people is very low and therefore the use of private medicine is very high. The system also does not serve health professionals. Yesterday’s news: hundreds of doctors refuse to do more than 150 overtime hours a year, which means there will be dozens of emergency and specialty services to be closed due to lack of doctors. In the face of all this, the Minister says it's okay. He's not, he's actually in collapse! And there is more evidence of the demobilization of doctors, nurses, hospital administrators: the contests whose vacancies are to be filled out, as I have already said, and the resignations of catadupa teams in various hospitals. And finally, the system does not serve the taxpayers. Mr. Prime Minister was proud that SNS was spending more EUR 5400 million today than it was spending in 2015. This would be good news if the service was better, but it is not; it would be good news if people were more satisfied, but they are not; it would be good news if the National Health Service were organized, but it is totally disorganized—final evidence is that, even today, one year after taking possession of the SNS Executive Directorate, there are still no statutes. So in the face of a collapse SNS, or we hide our head in the sand — we do as Mr. Minister, I came here to laugh and say that it's all right — or we recognize that we have a problem, we face it, we make the diagnosis and we present the solutions. Our diagnosis is that in the system there is a mismatch between the interests of those who need to use the system and the interests of those who work in the system: who needs to use the system, the patients, whether it is to be cared for in time, with convenience, with comfort, and, above all, to see their health problem solved, and lastingly resolved, is not with a panacea; those who work in the system, health professionals, want to have decent working conditions, want to have career prospects that are motivating—and we are talking about wages, yes, but also of organization, hours, equipment and training. It happens that nothing that health professionals need and want has to do with patients getting what they really need. There's no connection between the two! Without correcting this imbalance, the system will not be able to be fixed. Only competition between providers and true freedom of choice align these interests, and that is exactly what the U.S.A. Health does. In the U.S.-Health people are in the center, they can freely adhere to a subsystem — which I already explain — to choose the provider they want within that subsystem, and the rest remains the same: they pay no more or less taxes, no less moderate rates than today. Then, already within the U.S. Health, we have the providers, the financiers, the regulators. Providers are the health subsystems, linked by conventions and agreements of various providers — hospitals, doctors or clinics — which have to be accredited by the regulators, which I will already talk about, and meet a number of requirements for this, clinical, technical, financial, geographical coverage and coverage of type of care. The subsystems cannot refuse, for whatever reason, no adherent, and one of the subsystems will remain public, while the others will be public, private, cooperative, social. to the State it is necessary to continue to define health policy, to finance, through the State budget, the SUS-Health, to manage networks, which remain public — the public health network and the medical emergency network — and also the providers that are public, which is generally referred to as SNS. The regulation will compete to make accreditation, issue technical standards and guidelines, monitor and supervise. Therefore, it is in the interaction of these various entities, this Universal System of Access to Health, SUA-Health, which ensures such competition and the free choice of people, which produces the alignment of interests, which is crucial. Since we presented our proposal, the criticisms that have been heard have shown two things: either that they have not read the proposal or that they have read it, but they are intellectually dishonest, convincing me, even more, that today the left has become a strongly prejudiced force. We will then expose these prejudices. Prejudice No 1 : IL wants to end SNS. On the contrary, anyone who wants to end the SNS is the one who refuses to reform it, condemning the SNS to the decline that is being seen and condemning, above all, the Portuguese, especially those who have no money, to poor health care. Prejudice No 2 : IL wants to promote private medicine. On the contrary, anyone who refuses to reform the system has been the best friend of private medicine and its growth, since, the better functioning of the U.S. Health, there will be fewer reasons to resort to the private. Prejudice No 3: this model is more expensive. This shows that those who defend the current system are concerned about Portuguese health while more is a budgetary variable. We, who see the health of people as essential to a developed society, are clear on this: the system will be more careful, especially when reducing waiting lists, and it is natural that it spends more at that time, but at the same time, it is a system that promotes efficiency and combats waste, which will tend to spend less by medical act. Above all, U.S. Health will have more suitable and productive hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people who are waiting for months to recover their health. It is because of these Portuguese people and their health that the Liberal Initiative wants to discuss and approve the SUA-Health. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u19	The honourable Member has six requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u20	Mr President, in two blocks of three, each.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u21	All right, Mr. Deputies. The first request for clarification belongs to the Arrival, so Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the national health system is in a miserable state, and it is in a miserable state, basically and essentially for two reasons: a very bad management and ideological prejudice. Ideological prejudices have come from its foundation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u24	The national health system was discussed in the early 1980s when the PSD and the CDS defended a system of two pillars, mixed, based on the public and private, and the Socialist Party defended a system of 100 % public, in the English model. This came to contaminate our entire national health system and was aggravated in 2016 when they began to cancel and attempt to destroy public-private partnerships (PPP ). [[Laughing from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u25	He's worried about the profits of the economic groups!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u26	The term 1 million and a half without a family doctor serves as an epitaph of our National Health Service. The ideological questions go to this point: Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, here two months ago, raised the question of the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology) to be financing the Centro de Estudos Sociales de Coimbra with three times more money than what would be received by the Research Center of the Portuguese Institute of Oncology of the Port. Giving three times more money to a social study centre than to an oncological research centre makes clear the care and interest that the Portuguese health deserves from the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Well, after this complaint from Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, we received several remarks in the Arrival on other issues and other priorities of the FCT. In view of this, the Commission decided to call on Parliament to call on the President of the FCT Governing Council, so we asked the Liberal Initiative to follow us up on this initiative. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u27	You now have the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, I confess that, when he finished his speech, only because he could not beat his hands, because he was quite capable of beating hands to almost everything he said...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u29	Not in Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u30	No, we don't suffer from this kind of prejudice, that kind of complex doesn't concern us at least. [[CH's laughs.]] But, Mr President, I would say, if I could continue to speak about what is more substantive and, I believe, more interesting, that, as far as diagnosis is concerned, we fully agree, therefore, with the diagnosis which Mr has made. On the other hand, about the diagnosis, you just don't see who you don't want, or who you can't see, because you're politically committed to it. That's the case with the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, who do not see, do not want to see, cannot see,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u31	Don't you have a responsibility? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u32	... because they are so shocking the signs that enter us, every day, by the experience we experience in our electoral circles or by seeing the social communication: strike of doctors, there are no vaccines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u33	No vaccines? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u34	... wait months and years for consultations, there are rows at 6 o'clock in the morning,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u35	Yeah, you seem to have never been in the government...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u36	...not only in the health center you mentioned, but, as we saw still days ago, in Odivelas and Marvila — it's a bit everywhere! ... — The emergencies are closed, the San Francisco Xavier closes the entrance to the ambulances, it's 12 % more in the expense of medicines... Well, it's really bad! You are hurting the National Health Service very much,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and the effect of the worst policy you are promoting is the dismantling of the National Health Service. It is not by chance that there are 3, 5 million Portuguese with health insurance, paying for their pocket,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u37	It should be those who do not have ADSE ( Institute of Health Protection and Care ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u38	...or that there are 1, 5 million Portuguese with health subsystems. All of this is a reflection of the lack of a policy for health and the lack of capacity to implement a policy for health. In fact, see: this is so extreme, that it is a unique case in any government — I do not remember seeing this, even in this unique case — the Prime Minister appoints an executive director to take care of the Minister of Health, so that he does not do a lot of trouble. [[PSD applause.]] It doesn't exist, you know? It is a total lack of ability to make decisions, because it has no conditions and competence to make decisions. This will reflect for many and many years, not only in the present, but in the future, but there must be someone who will take care of this and must once again correct the nonsense that you commit whenever you are in government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u39	Yeah, there's to!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u40	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, when we saw that the Liberal Initiative would make a political statement on health, we thought, first of all: "Maybe it comes to SNS. » But we have certainly ruled out this option until we know what will be presented next Friday. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] We will always give a little bit to it, which has to do with the connection that the Liberal Initiative both between health and private services, and it was precisely because of that great connection that we thought that, sincerely, it would come here to give a compliment and a thanks to the Socialist Party and Minister Manuel Pizarro, because apparently they could be available to work together in a program that is, in fact, increasingly shared between what the Liberal Initiative defends and what the Socialist Party has done effectively in the Government. from the IL we already know what the cassette is, the cassette is always the same,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u42	Isn't that the PCP that has the tape?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u43	...and it will, invariably, always give to the same, which is to give more and more to the private. That is the solution presented by the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u45	However, the Socialist Party has done nothing but touch this tape, and the latest data indicate exactly that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u46	No, no! We don't have tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u47	We have recently had a parliamentary debate here in which the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, as well as Minister Manuel Pizarro, asked several times: "After all, has anyone done more PPP than I did? And, proudly, in the end, they replied: "No one else made as many PPPs as the Socialist Party! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u49	Therefore, this should be a cause for thanks from the Liberal Initiative to the Socialist Party itself. But the Socialist Party does not stay here close to the Liberal Initiative programme. We will see in 2022 the transfer of SNS money directly to the private sector: EUR 1335 million in complementary means of diagnosis and therapy purchased to the private sector, an increase of 7 % compared to 2021 ; more than EUR 317 million in boardings contracted to the private sector, an increase of 4, 5 %; EUR 160 million with medical service providers, an increase of 22 %. Therefore, we now have the one who apparently should be the programme of the Liberal Initiative. So, the question I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative, this is the following: do you not think they were unfriendly and ungrateful to the Socialist Party for not paying them due tribute to what they are doing to the National Health Service, which is to privatize more and destroy the SNS? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u50	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. I begin with the question put by Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, who did not have much to do with health, say to pass. But it has to do with democratic health, and I am making this interpretation more flexible, to say that it is not because of a matter of approving practically all the requirements that come for hearing in this House, but because we ourselves have raised the problem, in fact, that the aberrant criteria of the FCT have to be clarified, not only because there are 3, 5 million euros that go to a social study center of the University of Coimbra, but because there are many other decisions that are not understood. And we are not from the principle that they are wrong, we are from the principle that they must be understood and justified. So yes, we will follow-CL-you. Mr Miguel Santos, you have forgotten the question. [[Rice from members of the CH and IL.]] I will assume that the question was whether I also struck you with palms at the end of your request for clarification. Of course! And since the diagnosis coincides, let's work a little bit more to see if the therapy also matches. And this is also part of the answer to Mrs Isabel Pires, whom I recommended that she take a little bit of the butterfly that stuck. As I said from the rostrum, since we presented our proposal, the criticisms that have been heard have shown two things: either they have not read or read, but they are intellectually dishonest. Choose! It's just that what you came here to say has zero to do with what's in the U.S. Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u52	Here, here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u53	SUA-Health ends with PPPs, for example. SUA-Health won't have any private health group defending you. Do you want to bet? None! And if you think you're going, it's because you don't read, or you read, and you're intellectually dishonest. Once again, choose! There is an even worse cassette than normally attributed to the PCP, which is the cassette of what is already written, regardless of what people will defend from the rostrum or present as proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u54	You tried to fool people!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u55	That, yes, is intellectual dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u56	They've fucked up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u57	You can only defend the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u58	So, Mr. Miguel Santos, completes the answer to your question after this detour: let's work a little more, so that the therapy regarding this diagnosis we share is the same too. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u59	Mr João Dias of the CFP now has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u60	Speaking of cassettes...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, in fact, has brought us a clarification of your bill. This is a proposal that did not surprise us. We have evaluated it, looked well at it, looked at it, looked at it, but, in the background, motivation is clear, is well identified, and summarizes this, which I quote: « [...] the State ensures a market for solutions». Now, from here you can see exactly what the Liberal Initiative is coming.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u63	Then, as far as providers are concerned, it is also very clear. It says that health subsystems become providers, and we're talking about insurance and private health groups, which is what they want to value. We well know that you are talking about the system by putting the SNS there because, as well as I, you know how much the Portuguese population values the SNS. That's why they're talking about SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u64	They're in the queues, really! They're waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u65	But you know perfectly well that the objective of the Liberal Initiative is that this measure translates into the creation of a degraded National Health Service to respond to those who do not have money, and then to have a private system to respond to those who have economic capacity to buy it. That's your perspective. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u66	Let us look at what has to do with the prejudices that you say in your initiative "depolitize". Mr President, if there is an area in which the ideological difference is perfectly identified, it is the area of health. There is only ideological prejudice for those who defend the SNS, because those who defend the private have no ideological prejudice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u68	Let's look at the prejudices that you brought here and about which it was quite clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u69	Oh, is it? O John, explain that there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u70	« The SNS has failed, another model is needed. » Mr, it continues to be the SNS that saves the Portuguese right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u71	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u72	It's the SNS that guarantees health care, and it's the SNS that the Portuguese want! [[Protests by members of the CH and IL.]] It was this model that brought great civilizational achievements to our country! Another ideological prejudice: « The PCP and others are against the private initiative. » We have placed in the Health Bases Act, which was an advance relative to the previous, the complementarity, but what you have come to defend is the appropriation of the area of care provision to feed the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u73	Exactly! [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u74	Another ideological prejudice: « Private management is better than public. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u75	That's not written!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u76	Mr Deputy, give all the conditions to private managers that they can manage well. There is the ideological prejudice, and you know very well that this is why the National Health Service is destroyed too! Another ideological prejudice : « Health insurance arises due to the failure of the SNS. » You know, as well as I do, that today, when we buy bread, if we don't care, we've already brought a health insurance! [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u77	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u78	Pressure is made to have health insurance all the time. Therefore, what we need is to strengthen the public response, with better conditions for health professionals and with better conditions for the care of the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u79	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u80	Mr President, Caras and Dear colleagues, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, I have listened carefully to your political statement and, if I understand it, does not change anything from the point of view of the taxpayer and the user, as Mr. No one pays more taxes for this, no one pays more moderate fees, although he has admitted that in the first years at least the model of the Liberal Initiative would be more expensive, so he does not realize exactly how he is paying this « more expensive», if no one is going to pay more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u81	Management courses...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u82	On the other hand, anyone who criticizes the proposal of the Liberal Initiative is only in one of two cases: whether he does not read or is intellectually dishonest. I must tell you that it is a very unliberal way of putting things down, because it does not even admit that from the point of view of the Liberal Initiative, things may not be well explained or contain mistakes. I believed that pluralism in the debate was important for the liberals. So I ask you: if you say that those intellectual dishonesty on the left are the worst enemies of the National Health Service, because they do not want to reform it, you are implicitly admitting that, in fact, the National Health Service is not injured by death, that you don't have to throw it out, but you need to strengthen it and reform it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u83	It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u84	In other words, this money, in the early years, of the model of the Liberal Initiative, if used in the National Health Service, would allow to end the same waiting lists. There is a question to be asked: if it is possible to reform and strengthen the National Health Service and if, with more money, we were able to end the same waiting lists, how is it that people are persuaded to, without any guarantees not to be the word of someone who goes up there and says "or do not read or are intellectually dishonest", give the leap of faith that they are going to throw out a service that they already have and that has proved for 50 years and experience something because they are told that it works? This isn't just liberal, as it's not scientific. It is basically to sell a minute at the base of the façade and to expect people to jump into a leap of faith. It seems to me that for this, we need to prove much better what is said. [[CH and IL protests and PCP and L counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u85	Fezada was the result in Madeira, that was a façade!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u86	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group,... Continuation of CH and IL protests and counterprotests of the PCP and L... as soon as a bench allows,... [[Continued protests of CH and IL and counterprotests of PCP and L.... Mr. Jorge Seguro Sanches has the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Cotrim Figueiredo and the Liberal Initiative for putting on the agenda not only today, but also on Friday, a debate on health, which dignified, and much, the Assembly of the Republic and parliamentary work. I had the opportunity today to present the opinion on the legislative initiative of the Liberal Initiative, in which I understood precisely to say this and draw attention to this importance. I found that the Liberal Initiative made a correction in its strategy: because it felt that, on Friday, it had a debate that did not give it sufficient visibility, it understood that it should make this political statement today, which we believe is important, because we feel that, in fact, in the National Health Service and in the constitutional right that we all have to health, there are issues that we have to solve and for which we have to find the best solutions. The Socialist Party does not fall into the solution that everything that is public is bad, everything that is private is bad—or it is good, on any of the issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u88	For PS it's all bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u89	We argue that the National Health Service is one of the most important achievements of April 25th...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u91	... and we are very willing to support it and support it politically for the future. We understand that it was important to reorganize services in the area of the National Health Service, and that is why the Executive Directorate, the restructuring and integration of care, which is very important—and the honourable Members. Members know the importance of integrating primary and hospital health care for the future—are absolutely crucial in management. This is our way, but not forgetting that, locally, and especially at the level of these local health units (ULS), in many situations, we will have to find partners, either in the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), either in the pharmacy, or in the associations of patients, which are often not taken into account. This is the solution, this is the way we want, because the National Health Service is a way of combating the country's imbalances, it is a way of combating inequalities, and it is for these measures that the Socialist Party calls for support from all parties. This Socialist Party health team is available to work on this issue, with the difficulties we all know exist, with the professionals, drawing on themes like this. Still very recently, this week, one of the local health units in our country created two USF(family health units) model B, as a form of all users without a family doctor have access to this possibility. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] It is this kind of work that we need to do, and we welcome the initiatives and political debate on them, regardless of political differences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u92	Nice question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u93	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u94	It's gonna be hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u95	No one asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. Mr. João Dias said he was not surprised at our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u97	No, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u98	I'm surprised you didn't surprise yourself, because I've never seen a model of this design the way we designed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u99	The PCP didn't see it, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u100	We've been looking for the best that every system we think is working has, in several places. So you didn't surprise me. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u101	The PCP knows you very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u102	He showed at least that he read, because he was looking for quotes, but I don't know if he noticed, because he says he's full of ideological prejudices, like, for example, that private management is better than the public. You never heard me say that anywhere. Never! The only thing I say is that wrong incentives produce wrong results, and today's incentives within the SNS do not match what health professionals want and what patients need. And whoever says this isn't like that, so, yeah, he didn't look at the SNS and didn't go to the hospital for a long time. Sorry, it's not possible! It is not possible for someone to be at 4:00 a.m. at the door of a health centre to make a consultation or to wait hours in an emergency and be satisfied. It is not possible for health professionals to make successive strikes and not have a career and to be satisfied. It's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u103	We need to strengthen the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u104	So, being two very important entities in the unsatisfactory system, how can incentives work in the right place? They're not, they're not. Mr Rui Tavares, I will say that you have asked a good question, at the risk of contributing to this irritating intellectual superiority. [[PS, CH, PCP and L Members’ rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u105	Hey, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u106	It's a titan shock!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u107	It was a good question, because, above, I said: « Either they did not read or read and did not want to understand». You're right, I should have added a third: there were also those who didn't listen. There were also those who did not listen, I should have added that! What I said was that, until now, since we presented this, more than two months ago, the criticisms—that I know, the Free has not yet spoken, nothing—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u108	What is the Free?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u109	... all of them, they showed or had not read or, then, that they might have read, I can't do this project of intentions, but they didn't want to understand and were intellectually dishonest. He said: 'Ah, but if there is money to make this transition period, in which more health services are provided, there are lists that are recovered, and there is more expensive, that money is going to make the same recovery without changing the system. He didn't hear either, because the diagnosis isn't that. The diagnosis is not that there is no money, the diagnosis is that incentives are wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u110	And the incentives make up money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u111	We have already thrown another EUR 5 billion out of the problem. The problem, Mr President, is not about money, it is about conception and, again, I say, at the risk of repeating myself, about disalignment of incentives. So I'd really like to have a chance to discuss this with you without prejudice, without stones in your hand. The only goal we have is to take people out of waiting lists and take away the bad services they currently have in the SNS, to whom we recognize great virtues in the past—in the present, no. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Finally, Mr Sanches, so without weight, I can say that it was a question of who actually read the proposal, even though I had to make the opinion. Maybe it wasn't very nice, but you had to read it. It says that we bring this debate here because we need it to have more visibility than it will only have on the small Friday grid—I confessed it from above—and that, perhaps, we have to be a little more cautious, because this reorganization that is going on perhaps arrives, this historical reform. at the end of 44 years of SNS and 8 years of Socialist Party, we now need a historical reform, which consists of what? He speaks in new USF type B. The Minister has committed himself to more than 261 — this was before summer, so perhaps more than 30 or 40 have been created — and therefore there are still 200 and such USF type B by the end of the year, but when I implement the ULS, I ask him what is the space and logic of a USF type B, with autonomys from who is not of the USF itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u112	There's already!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u113	There is a great confusion and a great limitation. I believe that, as Mr Miguel Santos has already said, there is a great confusion between the powers of the Executive Director and those of the Minister of Health — a huge, enormous, enormous confusion. It will be a year since the SNS Executive Directorate is in office, and it is very little that it has produced, it is very little ambitious what it now intends to do and mask « historical reform». I objected to your intervention and your request for clarification which is available to discuss these matters, because in fact there are more ambitious, more structural, more radical things, if you want, to test this system. This, as it is, will only tend to get worse. And in this regard, I am very grateful for your openness. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u114	To give the political declaration on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing is a condition for living. It is something that each of us cannot ignore, and in order to maintain it, he will make all cuts, all sacrifices, go through all the difficulties that are possible, up to the limit of the decision to abdicate from his roof, from his home. That is the situation in which thousands and thousands of people find themselves every day — to see what they can cut to support the payment of their home. Young people do not stay in their parents' homes until they are 30 or 35 years of age for convenience. No, no, no. They remain there because of the precariousness of their work, because of the instability of their lives, because they do not have the conditions to keep their own home. People do not choose to share home with others, often with strangers, nor do they choose to live in tents of camp. They do it because they have no options. We're actually in the face of a drama. A drama for families, a drama for young people, a drama for students and their parents. In the face of all this — in the face of brutal speculation, in the face of a lease market completely opposed to the needs of the population, in the face of the gula and the accumulation of profits of the bank, in the face of the prosperity of the real estate funds, in the face of all this which must be combined with the uncomplicated increases in the prices of food, gas, electricity, telecommunications, fuels, tolls, school supplies, among so many other needs of day-to-day life — what does the Government do? Advance not with more housing, but yes, with more transfers. More transfers to the bank, more transfers of benefits to real estate funds, more incentives for speculation. A few days ago, measures were announced by the Government, which may be important for those who can access them, leave the main responsibility for the situation to which we have arrived and, at the same time, the main beneficiary of the situation to which we have reached: the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u117	These are insufficient, late measures, which, above all, go alongside the central issues. Insufficient because, by relieving the rope tightening, they leave the knot in the neck to whom they have a housing credit. It is too late because there is nothing to justify that measures, even if limited, are taken towards the end of the tenth increase in interest rates. And they are beside the central issues because, here, the central issue should be to put the bank's profits to bear the rise in interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u119	But not a measure, not even an approximation of it, which makes up the EUR 11 million of profits per day of the bank. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] I repeat: EUR 11 million per day of bank profit! The government determines that we should pay the same, and in all, to the bank. The government guarantees that they will continue to fill the safes by receiving everything, all the time and again. A decision that not only prolongs the unbearable level of benefits paid to banks, as in no way ensures that they are no longer rising, as the ECB ( European Central Bank ) has also been admitting. The government, which talks about reducing and stabilising bank benefits, is in practice pushing families to postpone those payments which, being a little more reduced for two years, will have to be paid in full later. Zero savings for families, full profit for the bank. That's not the answer the country needs. Courage, determination, a policy at the service of the workers and the people: that is what is required at this time. And that means facing the bank, its interests, and putting it with its millions of euros of profit to support the increase in interest rates. It is necessary to protect your own housing, stop pens and waste, prevent speculation, impose a maximum limit 0, 43 % increase for next year's incomes. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] It is necessary to carry out a moratorium for a maximum of two years, suspending the depreciation of capital and paying interest only at a rate equal to that which banks finance—because the truth is that banks are financed at much lower values than those charged in housing loans. And the truth is that the bank pays two or three times less for the deposit than what it charges for the loans. It is necessary for the General Deposit Box, as a public bank that is, to continue a clear option that allows the spread and bank costs to be lowered. It is necessary to eliminate tax benefits to speculators, real estate funds and to eliminate the tax privilege regime that is the regime of non-standard residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u121	It is necessary to assume a strong commitment in the provision of public housing, mobilizing resources for the construction, requalification and acquisition of housing—a key element in order to prevent the right to housing from being hostage to the profits of the bank and real estate speculation; a decisive condition to ensure that in Portugal, as the Constitution states, everyone is entitled, for himself and his family, to a housing. All of this means confronting the bank and putting it, with its millions of profits on our account, to assume the increase in interest rates. It involves the fight against speculation, the fight against the privileges of banking and real estate and, above all, it is a matter that is only resolved with a general and significant increase in wages and pensions. And as for wages, there is enough talk, wages are increased by 15 %, at least 150 € for all workers. [[PCP applause.]] Although, as we have already said, the insufficient, limited, propagandistic nature of these measures and the fact that they go along with the central issues, the fact is that these measures now announced by the Government have once again demonstrated that the Government has been forced by the struggle of the people to do something that is always worth fighting. And this fight will continue, already on Saturday, 30th, at various points in the country; a fight that sooner or later will take forward the measures that are required to respond to the problem of housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u122	But that wasn't the Block? Oh, my God! He's stealing from you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u123	Once again, we reaffirm the commitment of the CFP to continue the intervention and the fight for the guarantee of the right to housing and we will say this as many times as necessary: housing must indeed be a right and not a commodity, and what is urgently guaranteed are houses to live and not to speculate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u124	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u125	The honourable Member has six requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u126	Three and three more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u127	All right. For the first request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u128	Mr President, I thank Mr Bruno Dias for bringing the issue of housing. We share many of the concerns, such as the concerns of students, who have nowhere to stay and the concerns of all the young people who stay too long at home. And I thought, so far, that we did not share the solutions, because we always defend that, to solve the problems of housing, to have more housing, we need to have more construction. Fortunately, it seems that now the CFP also agrees — although not in theory at least in practice. Yeah, I'm going to talk about the old PCP thirst in Aveiro. In the 1970s, the PCP first occupied and then rented its headquarters in Aveiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u129	Potato logic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u130	Thirty years later, the owner of this headquarters wanted to turn the dwelling into five-storey housing buildings. The PCP opposed the operation, calling for the preservation of the city's architectural heritage and the project remained. After that, the PCP became owner, got bored...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u131	Hey! Hey, man! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u132	...and resolved that there was no more architectural heritage to preserve. It demolished the house to put there a seven-storey building, with apartments for sale for half a million euros. [[Ah! What?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u133	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u134	Notice, I didn't bring this story to criticize. On the contrary, I congratulate the PCP, because it is building houses that will solve the housing problem. In fact, I think that the CFP deserves today a huge applause for having done more for housing in the last few months than the government has in the last eight years. Congratulations! We deserve it! [[Applause from the IL.]] Many congratulations to the PCP! As real estate speculators did more to solve the housing crisis than as a political party. The PCP went from an idealist party to having ads in the Idealist. [[Rice from IL.]] Previously they were inspired by Marx, now they are inspired by RE / MAX. [[IL rice and PSD Members.]] I find this fantastic evolution, even because as a political party, according to the latest polls, ready, « Already ERA»! ... I suggest to the PS a solution to the problems of housing: give the state's returned buildings to the PCP. They do not need to occupy, give the state's returned buildings to the CFP that the CFP, led by the invisible hand in search of profit, is more efficient in transforming them into housing than the government itself. [[Applause from the IL.]] So my question is very simple: do you consider that what they did in Aveiro is an example that should be repeated by the country outside? It's just, I have to say, I think so! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u135	To ask for clarification, on behalf of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pessanha has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u136	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I have listened carefully to your speech and obviously the first question before you is: were you six years in government, what did you do during that time? What housing policies have they presented to solve all the problems they have just stated? Mr President, the problem of housing has not started now. The CFP is municipal executive in the Sixal, where, for example, there is the Quinta da Princessa and the Cucena neighborhood — I think you know what I am talking about when I mention these two examples. These are two worthy examples from the third world, where people live in inhuman conditions. So I would also like to ask what you have done to solve the problem of all these people living in these situations. For example, in Loures, the debt of municipal housing reached EUR 15 million. Do you know who this debt belongs to and how much of this debt is not paid because they have never done anything to solve it? So the question is: what have you done all these years to solve the problems of housing in Portugal? To conclude, we wanted to know the following: after 1974, how many buildings did the Communist Party acquire that are still returned and that could serve for the housing of all these people? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u137	You now have the floor to make a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, the Member here did the portrait of the worst state of housing in Portugal. We agree with many of the things I have said — the lack of housing, the difficulties of families in accessing credit to housing, the difficulties in paying income — but I ask you, Mr President: where have you been all these years, in which even a written agreement has made with the Socialist Party, when we talk about management?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u139	Hey, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u140	So I ask you whether you have not guarded a structural programme for the country with regard to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u142	This is because the PCP has as much responsibility as the Socialist Party has in the worst state to which we have arrived with regard to housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] But moreover, Mr Deputy, I would also like to recall that the Social Democratic Party was the first to present structural measures for housing in Portugal, which presented more measures and better measures, and did so in February this year. One of these measures, which has been re-presented, concerns exactly the aid that would be given to families to pay their housing credit. And the aid was simple—I don't know whether you had the opportunity to read; you voted against, but I don't know if you have read it well— : to extend over time the credit to housing and the benefits that people pay, and that families pay at this time; i.e. to postpone the difference between what they paid before the inflation rate rose and what they pay now for the last few years of the housing loan, with the public guarantee of the State, or even giving them the possibility of making the payment with a single amortization at the end, Mr., without penalties, without interest, without fees, without fees; finally, effectively helping families. This was the PSD measure against which the PCP voted twice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u143	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u144	I ask you, Mr President, why did you vote against this measure? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u145	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u146	He's a speculator!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, Mr. Pedro Pessanha and Mr. Márcia Passos and, in particular, thank the first Mrs. Members who have intervened here, because they have done so much better than the PCP could ever do, the demonstration of the true contempt with which your parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u148	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u149	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u150	... treat the housing and the very serious problems people face in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u151	Exactly! They don't want to know about people's problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u152	We would not be able to demonstrate before the people, with the quality of your demonstration, that housing for you is a non-substance; you don't want to know that for nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u154	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u155	You prefer to bring here a lamentable clown, like the one that Mr. Deputy brought here,... [[PCP applause.]] ... and transport what should be a serious discussion about housing policy in Portugal and the measures necessary to respond to the dramatic problems people face in their lives to their natural habitat, by the way, which is that of the political chicana and the lamaçal of the party debate. We don't align with that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u156	But do you answer or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u157	We just want to say that, with regard to the statement you made here, that this building in Aveiro where the CFP work centre was located would have been occupied by the CFP, there are only two possibilities: or the honourable Member assumes that he does not know what you are talking about and that someone has misinformed him, or you assume that you are missing the truth...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u158	Lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u159	...and to lie brazenly in front of this House. So what I have to say is that the honourable Member, this afternoon, and the others, will have the opportunity to remove the lie he said here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u160	I should do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u161	It's on the news!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u162	Prove what I said! Try it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u163	On the other hand, I also have a lot of regret about disillusioning, but I have come to inform you that these ads you talk about and that property you talk about do not involve the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u164	Don't you? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u165	If you've already sold, don't get involved!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u166	... and that the PCP has no responsibility for what is happening. Responsibility that you wrongly—maybe without knowing what you are talking about or perhaps secretly lying—will charge the CFP. [[PCP applause.]] On the issues raised where the CFP has been, over these years, on housing policy issues, I would like to inform the honourable Members. Members of whom the CFP has been in the Assembly of the Republic to present proposals, measures and amendments to the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u168	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u169	...to defend people against gross increases in incomes and the price of housing, and to defend them against inhuman evictions to which they have been subjected over these years, the fruit of the policies, options and the law that the right has approved in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u171	Where was the PCP? I was presenting proposals and solutions to combat this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u172	Look, what about the six Budgets? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u173	The problem is that these proposals presented by the CFP were rejected, with the votes against the PS, the PSD and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u175	When you vote against the CFP proposals to defend tenants from gross increases in income; when you converge on rejection of the urgent measures proposed to defend families and place the bank to pay, instead of earning EUR 11 million per day of profit with the increase in interest rate, you give your hands, and then you still have the discharge to ask the CFP where it was going. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, think about what you're saying! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u176	So you voted against, after all, why?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u177	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, in fact the issue of housing has been on the agenda and one can see why: because we are in our country, in particular in 2023, at an apparent crossroads and in a situation apparently without resolution. And I say « apparently», because there are solutions, the problem is the lack of courage to take these solutions forward. The choice that should be made right now is whether we think it is normal for a dislocated teacher to live in a car, or if we think it is normal for this dislocated teacher to have a salary enough to pay an affordable income. The choice we should be making right now is if we find it normal that, in the Lisbon area, we lack family doctors, because the salary they earn is not enough to rent a house. What we should be talking about right now is if we think it's normal that we have so many students giving up higher education, because there are no rooms, or the rooms that exist to rent pass the 400 €, 450 €, and they go out there. What we realize is that, with the recent discussion of the so-called « More Housing package », the choice that has been made, in particular by the Government, was not to respond to any of these problems and to find it normal that these situations continue to happen. Such measures as those referred to by the bank are undoubtedly relevant because what we are watching is undoubtedly a robbery by a gang whose leader is the European Central Bank, with the support of governments, in particular the Portuguese Government. But we're watching something else, we're watching that Portugal has become an oasis for real estate speculators,... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] ...with tax benefits that don't fit anyone's head, considering the current situation we have. We continue to maintain a regime of unusual residents, which has caused an absolutely absurd speculation and has no justification, with the crisis we are currently going through. Therefore, the obvious question is whether, in fact, we should not be looking at the tax benefits and the oasis in which Portugal has become real estate speculators and going to the root of the problem; and not to go to any more tax benefits, ideas about increasing subsidies and ideas that actually reflect what the Liberal and Right Initiative really like to say: "It is necessary to build, build, build". Let us look at the construction we currently have: it is construction for the luxury segment and, therefore, it is not for people who work and earn the smallest wages, or average wages, in our country. So I ask you, after all, why in our country we continue to have a Government of the Socialist Party, which is also supported by other parties, who continue to deliberately choose not to solve a housing crisis, which has solutions—which have also been presented by the Left Block—which have been rejected in recent years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u179	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u180	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I welcome this political statement and I must say that we agree with the diagnosis: we know that today there is a serious problem of access to the housing market. But we are obviously in disagreement with the way forward and the path that is being traced. And I'd like to start with that. We know that there are structural solutions, which need to be implemented, and which are being implemented; we know of the local housing strategies, which are throughout the country; we know of the political priority that has been given to housing, and we know of the financial allocation that this matter has within the framework of government policy—and that is no less. We also know that, from a conjuncural point of view, we have also been acting in the context of immediate measures that need to be implemented. We act in support of income, a support that reaches 135 000 families today; direct support, without bureaucracy, to reach people quickly. We have diverged, as has been said, in the support given to the housing credit and the mechanism that has been created, the interest bonus—we have not begun today our path of defence policy for those who have a housing credit. But I do not want to waste much time talking about these structural and conjunctural measures, because that would lead to a debate. I want to put questions to the CFP, even because I know the CFP speech over the past few years and, therefore, there are issues I have here today to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u181	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u182	Mr Bruno Dias, are the honourable Member and the CFP either in favour of or against the reduction of the rate of freedom for gentlemen who place houses on the rental market at affordable prices? Is it against or in favour of the drop in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for those who place longer lease contracts to give stability and predictability to those who want to have their home? The honourable Member has voted against it; the PS has proposed it and the Member has voted against it. The honourable Member is in favour, I assume, because I have heard him several times from that rostrum talking about the harmful effects the foreign real estate investment had in Portugal. However, the PS has introduced measures to contain residence permits for real estate investment. The PS proposed. And what have you done? He voted against. [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member has often said, in that rostrum, that it was necessary to find a fair balance in order to have houses to live. The PS presented a solution for more houses to live and contain the local accommodation. How did the honourable Member and the PCP bench vote? The PS proposed, and the PCP bench voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u183	That's not what the proposal did!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u184	The honourable Member also spoke of family income in his speech, and spoke of the prospect of wage increases. But, Mr President, you can also speak with great pride and satisfaction, such as this PS bench, of the increase in wages in recent years — particularly in the national minimum wage — of supplements for more income for families, such as free daycare, free school textbooks, the reduction in transport prices. And therefore, Mr President, the question that the Socialist Party's bank has to ask the CFP right now is whether these indicators in which the CFP voted against should not be my fault and at least — and if I did not want to vote — recognize here today that these are advances in what we want most, which is to guarantee access to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u185	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u186	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to start with the central part of your intervention, which has to do with the question of the effect that the continued rise of interest rates has had on the benefit that many people pay for their real estate credit. That is the real question — which, in fact, many of the requests for clarification have not even referred to here — that is putting the rope on the throat of the people in Portugal. That is, we can discuss daily increases in wages, tax reductions, social security contributions, etc. , and all this is worth nothing if the people who pay a benefit that today is 500 €, last two months they have to pay 600 €, 700 €, 800 €— and the benefit goes around galloping. We can have the best measures in the world—i.e., IL and CH did not present any,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u187	We presented more than you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u188	... the PSD and PS present two versions of the same measure, which is "to push with the belly" — but everyone, the borrowers, the families, ends up paying "with palm language" all these increases at the interest rate, and the bank pays nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u189	And you guys, they showed you what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u190	A year ago, the Free Commission presented a measure for people to move to the fixed rate and the truth is that the CFP voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u191	And in Madeira, they showed what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u192	He's here talking, he's abstaining and, therefore, he's marimbar...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u193	Look, that's ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u194	...for the people who are with the rope in their throat with this situation. What we have to ask ourselves is, in fact, why is it that, in Portugal, more than 90 % of people have variable rates and in the other countries of Europe this does not happen? Was it by any chance? Did the Portuguese all remember going to the variable rate? Or was it because there was a concerted bank action to sell your products like that? From that point of view, yes, whoever created the problem must help to solve it. And it's a measure that wasn't for yesterday, actually, it was a measure that was for a year ago, when the rise in interest rates began. What I would like to ask you, honourable Member, is whether it is in favour of the use of this same principle, which is a basic principle of justice, including tax, which is: who creates the problem, the so-called negative externalities, must help to solve it; and to solve the problem of housing in a more general sense — increasing the taxation of houses purchased for merely speculative purposes, sold at very higher prices of the market prices in the areas where they are sold, and using this money for the creation of an emergency housing support fund, which will be used there to pay support for income and interest subsidies, which should not be paid by the common taxpayer, but by those who, by speculation and by running to the low supply, are causing a widespread increase in prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u195	The Bureau had the indication that Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto wished to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work, which had precedence over interventions. Do the favor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u196	Mr President, in your reply, Mr Bruno Dias has accused me of something very serious, of raising false testimony. Of course, I did not invent what I said and will bring to the Bureau the links, in particular, to public news of 2006, which quotes a local representative of the PCP, who witnesses that the PCP has occupied, recovered and then rented the House Alleluja,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u197	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u198	...and also a more recent news from the Polygraph, which sums up the whole story. If there was any kind of invention was by these media agencies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u199	Are you apologizing to the PCP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u200	... that I have as valid, so I used them as source; that was the source.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u201	Are you apologizing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u202	It is not the central issue of my statement, but I think that it is still appropriate to indicate the sources, and that is exactly what I did.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u203	Mr President, please make the call to the Bureau available and the Bureau distributes it to all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u204	He says: "I'm sorry! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u205	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u207	Do not forget to thank, to say: "Thank you for your apologies".
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u208	... before answering questions from Mrs Isabel Pires and the Members. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr Rui Tavares — whom I would like to thank and to whom I will respond immediately — I cannot fail to record this prudent attitude of Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, saying that if anyone is lying, as we heard at school, "it was me, it was him, someone happened to me! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u209	Well done! Well done!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u210	Our statement is very clear about the difference between telling a truth or spreading a falsehood.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u211	They have to prove it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u212	Whoever accuses you has to prove, Mr. Deputies can't send the link to false news.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u213	Was that your head of the Aveiro PCP who lied? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u214	Mrs. Members, for many years, the problem of housing was, I would say, essentially of people who did not have access to decent housing and who lived — and live even — in degraded homes. You couldn't imagine, some of the gentlemen. Members and many people in this country, a situation in which families of several generations who lived quietly in their homes or in homes that rented a whole life would be confronted with this fact that they were expelled from their homes and neighborhoods by an increase in income that suddenly tripled, or more, the value they had to pay. We have reached the point where a wage, two wages, three wages are not enough to pay an income or the provision of a house. That is what is happening today, therefore, the situation we are experiencing today is of real social emergency. This does not go there with liberative fees, Mr. In addition, we continue to point out that subsidizing the profit of banks and real estate funds with public money is not the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u216	The problem is solved by facing precisely the economic power and the interests of these sectors,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... like the bank, like the real estate funds, and like the big speculators who are earning millions with the sacrifice situation that the families are facing and with the regime — yes, sir — of the unusual residents, the tax system of privilege in which you don't even touch one line, along that process that has now ended. With regard to the visasgold, the PS « turned the kiss to the nail », because the proposal they presented changed the initial text maintaining the right to the golden visas of those who had them. You did not end that figure, on the contrary. And not to end the vissgolds is that the PCP voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u217	Exactly! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u218	On the other hand, Mr. Members, when it comes to the idea that comes from the right and that, by the way, the PS has also apardrin — hence Bill No 77 / XV / 1. the, which has already followed, regarding the licensing process and urbanism, say that building is the solution, but what is true is that over the last decade the number of families in Portugal has grown by 105 000 and the housing park has grown by 111 000. The offer grew more than demand and, however, last year, housing prices increased in Portugal as never before. World registries! What is the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) country that has more houses per 1000 inhabitants? Which OECD country has more houses per 1,000 inhabitants? Oh, my God! It's Portugal! The problem is not the offer, the problem is the speculation! It is from those who want to earn millions with the sacrifice and life of millions of Portuguese, of the vast majority. That's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this question of political options and choices about our collective future, there is only reason to say that it gains more strength the need and urgency of people to make their voices heard. This Saturday, day 30, throughout the country, there will be a moment, an opportunity for so many, so many people who are suffering and distressed with their future and their lives can go out on the street, make their voices hear and demand a change of policies in housing, which is so lacking. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u219	We'll be there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u220	I'll go, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u221	To make a political statement on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) has, in recent weeks, mounted a large political and media operation around the proposal of a social pact. The grip was so much that he didn't get away with ridicule. The bosses, said the CIP spokesperson, want a higher salary increase than is proposed by the most radical of the trade unions. It is appropriate to ask: then why do they not, since it is in the hands of companies to realize this increase? In reality, what employers want is something else: it is a huge tax benefit and a mechanism in which wage increases have as their counterpart the usurpation of workers' indirect wages by suspending contributions to social security. Surrounded in a speech on workers' incomes and the difficulty of grasping labour, the CIP chose as one of its flags a supposed 15. the month. O the generosity of the bosses, so much will you have to pay more!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u223	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u224	Only not: the proposal is a real trick. Or supposed 15. the month is not an increase in wages, it is an optional premium — companies could pay or not — without any payment of taxes and social security contributions. If we divided for 14 months, we would not be too far from 6 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u225	It's 7 %, make the accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u226	... which, moreover, does not go far than the employers already had, with the UGT (General Workers' Union ) and with the Government, agreed in social consultation, at a time when inflation was lower than the one who ate part of wages in the past year and a half.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u227	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u228	But it is also a tax draw for those who earn the most, because taxes are progressive, and the theft of a fundamental component of indirect wage, which are payments, contributions to social security, which guarantee protection in disease, parenthood and the construction of pension in old age.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u230	Creating the illusion of an increase in income in the present, the CIP wants to break down social security and compromise future pensions. But the business has more artisans. The confederation of employers proposes another measure: an increase of 14, 75 % in the monthly income of workers. I would think that it is now that companies will run for collective bargaining to propose these wage increases. Not only: not only is this an increase of 14, 75 % in wages, but only an increase of 4, 75 %, as the counterpart is once again not paying taxes or contributions to social security and still creates an individual compulsory reform plan that transfers part of the future pensions to the role of the financial market. That's where the remaining 10 % would go. In other words, in a context where there must be increases, inflation and difficulty in finding a job in several sectors because the most qualified workers emigrate, the CIP wants to take advantage of, "through the horse door", as opposed, this old dream on the right and the financial markets, which is to open the door of the pension system to private funds, diverting discounts out of the pension system. It's unacceptable and it would be a blow. On the other hand, the political right, the employers and, unfortunately, also at times, the Government of the Socialist Party frequently stirs up, without any rigor, the phantom of the future decline in pensions and the sustainability of the social security system, a phantom dissipated by the effective numbers of social security revenues. They now intend to fulfill the false prophecy, opening a real crack in the accounts of social security. [[PSD MP Nuno Carvalho's protests.]] To this catalogue of articles, the CIP also adds the proposal to reduce by 50 % the incidence of IRS and social security contributions on extraordinary work and shift allowance. Another perverse idea. We do not need to embarrass companies with the use of overtime and shiftwork. We need to reduce actual and legal working hours; to discourage the extension of overtime; to restrict shifts to the functions strictly required by this scheme; and to discourage and exacerbate the use of timetables that burst with the reconciliation between personal and professional life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u231	He wants to make the malt earn less!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u232	The cherry on the top of the cake, however, is the millions of euros which the CIP proposes to divert from the State budget to the bosses' pocket. The pompous name with which the CIP baptized this proposal, which is a proposal for tax robbery, was « tax credit for competitiveness and employment ». But no matter what the name is, it is interesting to know what the thing is, and the thing is, to deduce the collectable subject of IRC (tax on the income of the public), tax on the profits of companies, all expenses with salary increases, which would still be increased by 40 %. In other words, in a country where business profits already pay much less than labour income, the CIP wants to reduce the basis on which those taxes are calculated and lowered the IRC to a single, non-progressive rate of 17%, not distinguishing small and large companies and reducing taxes precisely to larger companies — those that are already more capable of the resourceful and imaginative strategies and arrangements of tax planning. In short, it is a feast: no social security contributions are paid, no tax benefits are multiplied for companies with more profits and no wage is replaced by premiums, which can be paid or not, which are out of pay and which exacerbate gender inequality, because they discriminate against workers who take on more care and family responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u233	What about women? Oh, my God! That's discrimination!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u234	Looking at the reality beyond the appearance of a sudden and unlikely generosity of the CIP, it is noticed that the bosses are trying to respond to the pressure to increase wages with a trick to obtain enormous advantages from the government. The question is: how do the Government and the Socialist Party react? How do the Government and the Socialist Party react to this melody of the bosses? What we know about the government's reaction is serious, it is an emphatic opening to a sack that should have a 'no' round as the only answer. When we needed a government to defend the inflation that lives in its wages, when we needed significant increases in real wages, when we needed a fairer distribution of wealth and greater tax justice and not more boredom to those who have more, the government's signals are others: running to the arms of an agreement with the CIP, which is intended to display, to believe in what the employers have said to the social communication, with the inclusion of some of these measures that are absolutely unacceptable in the next State budget. This policy, on our part, will deserve to be combated. There is, in this country, left. There are left, there are trade unions and there are movements of workers to defeat this policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u235	The honourable Member has six requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u236	I am replying three to three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u237	The first request belongs to the Socialist Party. To that end, Mr Sérgio Monte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moura Soeiro, I have listened carefully to your speech and I would like to say to you from now on that the Socialist Party is a founder, dynamizer and defender of social dialogue. It's not by chance. It is because we know that if we look at Europe, the most developed countries in northern Europe are countries that have a strong tradition of social dialogue, a strong tradition of social dialogue. We therefore respect the autonomy of the social partners. It is legitimate, it is normal, it is democratic that the social partners, both employers and trade unions, present their proposals and discuss them at the head of CPCS ( Standing Committee on Social Concertation ). In this case, you brought here the proposal of the CIP for a social pact which has already been presented, as far as we know, to the Government and to the social partners. It has been quite mediatism, it is true, it has been discussed in various mediatism mediatism bodies — in fact, for which you have just contributed, by bringing this discussion here, because obviously this will also be the subject of social communication. I wanted to say, however, that an important issue for the Socialist Party at the moment is the fact that no social partner has put in check or in question the Medium-Term Agreement for the Improvement of Income, Salaries and Competitiveness. In fact, it is being implemented well. Just look at the numbers of collective bargaining: in the first eight months of this year, the number of publications of collective conventions has already increased by 54 %. By the way, let me get rid of some confusion here that sometimes the Bloc leaves in the air — you, in the morning, mentioned this in a hearing where I was present — let me see one thing: the CPCS, the Standing Committee on Social Consultation is not a consultation body. The consultation body is the Economic and Social Council. The CPCS may establish agreements and make political commitments, and these political commitments may not require any legislative intervention. If there is a need for legislative intervention, then yes, it is Parliament's turn; and then, yes, the PS will decide to let social dialogue work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u239	Therefore, doing so before the PS side is not, let's say, acceptable. Not because it could or could not be, but because it is even an interference in social consultation, a conditionalism and a pressure that we are creating. I don't know if that's what the Block wants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u240	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Moura Soeiro, I begin by referring to the expression with which he ended his political statement, which is « fiscal robbery ». Tax recovery, Member of Parliament, is what the Portuguese feel about this government and that they have already felt since the administration. Tax backup, all right! With regard to the issue of social consultation and the social partners, I begin by saying that they are, yes, important and that they have not always been valued by the government. On these proposals you have spoken about now, we have heard about the process, but now I want to talk about the content, from now on about the pension system and about measures which have been diabolical here. Yes, we have to talk about the capitalisation system. We currently have a distribution system and we talk about data instead of names. According to the State Budget report for 2023, which has data of 2021 — and we are waiting for the evolution, already in the next few days, of these numbers -, the average pension value is €509 and the average value of the new pensions is €594, referring to 2021, which shows that the trend is not good. Mrs. Members, 70% of pensions under €439 and the rate of poverty in the elderly — this is the reality that they do not want to admit what our reform system is. In view of this scenario, ideological blindness makes you not even want to discuss the matter. It is because Mr José Moura Soeiro quoted, and well, the President of the Portuguese Business Confederation when he said that a wage increase is being proposed higher than that proposed by the most radical of the trade unions. Radical! But I ask: is the Left Block so radical that, only because of a proposal coming from a employers' confederation, are you not even willing to talk about it? [[BE's protests.]] We've also heard here about sewers. So, let's just keep slugging. I present more data to counter the narratives. Social security accounts show long-term bankruptcy. What we are discussing is always deadlines — plus 5, plus 10, plus 4, plus 3! In addition, younger generations will have reductions from 50 % to 60 % in reforms to their wages and an ageing population and aging is swallowed up! ...Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that social reform is good and is recommended. I also heard Mrs Mariana Mortágua say that this is an offense to whom she works. [[And it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u242	An offense to which you work is the tax burden that exists. An offense to which he works is the ideological blindness of improvements in workers' wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u243	The wages are low!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u244	An offensive to those who work are policies that, regardless of the effort of each one, leave us all voting for anemic growth. Let's talk if this increase is made at the expense of social security. They have already said, and I will repeat it well because most people do not read the complete proposals, that this increase of 14, 75 % in wages, with temporary reduction of the single social rate ( TSU ) would be a salary increase of 4, 75 % and the remaining 10 % would go to an individual reform plan. Note this: what we are saying is that there will be money in the short-term workers' pocket and money guarantee in the reforms. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u245	No, that's just an adrabice. That's all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u246	In other words, money is not lost in the way, somewhere, and do not come to say that they do not know what it is, because they know what the RPP is (plan for saving reform). They do not talk about privatizing the funds because, for example, there is already the Public Capitalisation Regime. On the other hand, they will probably also say that this is such a roulette, something that they like to mention so much. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] I will end by saying that it is what the Portuguese feel every day, and it is not with this proposal, that it is what is happening with the taxation and policies of this country. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u247	For a request for clarification, on behalf of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: translating the statement by Mr. José Moura Soeiro by children, basically the Left Block is very upset with the fact that the Government, this year, has extended the spectrum of entities that are listening to in the pre-State budget period and is not listening exclusively to trade unions and movements of workers controlled by the extreme left, which, according to its mentality, represents the voice of the proletariat. And imagine that he decided to sit at the table with the bosses and then heard the Portuguese Business Confederation. I realize it must be hard to see the Socialist Party, after seven years of relying on the Left Block, to break completely the commitments that I had with you and to ignore you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u249	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u250	But this is only the Socialist Party being equal to itself and using people while they need them and then discarding themselves later, just as it does with Portuguese voters and citizens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I also realize that this can be very disturbing to the sociologists of this bench, who are devotees of S. Karl Marx,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... but it is necessary to descend to the earth and, above all, to leave Marxist theories and understand the difficulties of the common citizen. The CIP came to propose voluntary payment by companies of a 15. the free month of IRS and social security. Without this exemption, only about 45 % of this order would come to the hands of the worker. For young people, the CIP suggests the exemption of IRS in the first 100 000 € taken up to 35 years. This would mean that a young man who earned, on average, 1000 € per month would have at least seven years of exemption. In view of this, the leader of the Left Block rips the clothes off and tells us that these proposals are a trick and that the problems of low wages are not solved by taxes. [[Of course, what they want is poor!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u251	I bring here a final example that has recently been put forward by the ECO newspaper: a single worker with no children, to earn an average salary, takes home about 58 % of his salary, after he deducts taxes and contributions to social security. This account adds the fact that this same citizen, in the overwhelming majority of goods and services, has to pay the State more than 23 % in direct taxes. You do the final accounts, how much does a worker really take home and how much does a worker pay the state? About 70 %, 80 % of your salary, your work. If this doesn't sound like slavery, I don't know what world they live in! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But the primary question is this: for what? For what? To have degraded public services? To need to resort to health insurance? For this reason, without Marxist advances, what I ask to explain, and very concretely, not to me, but to the Portuguese who hear us there at home, as is the creation of a 15. the tax-free month can harm a Portuguese worker and, above all, how the reduction of taxation and taxes will not translate into more money in the Portuguese pocket. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u252	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u253	Mr President, the CIP has found good spokespersons on these boards of its proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u254	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u255	I would ask Mrs IL if I am available, if I am willing to talk about these proposals or if I do not even want to talk about them because they come from employers' confederations. I'm ready. In fact, this is what we have done here, a political statement on these proposals, because they are in fact a slug and they are so bad they deserve to fight, and they fight resolutely.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u257	When the CIP says that it is proposing a higher wage increase than the one that proposes the most radical of the trade unions, that is an anecdotal, it is a grace, but it is obviously a joke without any justification. And yes, fiscal robbery is what the CIP is proposing, with tax benefits of millions, money that is diverted from the State budget and withdrawn from social security—and therefore it is workers' money—for employers' pockets, through tax exemptions and through exemptions at the single social rate. I understand the enthusiasm of the honourable Member with the deviation from part of what the wages of workers should be and what the money should be for the social security system. Devide 10 % — 10 %! — that is what the CIP is proposing, 10 % for an individual compulsory reform plan which goes to the private pension market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u258	If there are no poor, there will be no Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u259	We know, Mrs Deputy, the international experience with these private pension markets. They are pensions that evaporate exactly in the Russian role of the financial system, and therefore we need to protect workers. And, yes, just look at the social security accounts this year to see how contributions are increasing and how we have more revenue than we spend on the social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u260	But what does the Block want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u261	Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, I certainly expected another intervention from the Socialist Party. What did I expect? I was hoping that the honourable Member and the Socialist Party would reach this plenary session and say that they are against these proposals. I even hoped that the Socialist Party could say here, for example, that in these proposals of the bosses, they are pretending to give with one hand, but they are taking both. That's what I'd like to hear. The measures of the CIP, Mr. Member, include tax bills and include exemptions from the TSU. None of these measures can move forward without coming to Parliament. It is Parliament which has the monopoly of the legislative amendment which would allow these proposals. So, yes, the Socialist Party must have a position. It is not enough to say that it is a question of social consultation. No, none of these proposals exist if Parliament does not approve them. What we need to know is whether or not the government is available to accept any of these proposals. That the bosses have the freedom to play this song, it's normal, they have all the freedom to play this song. That the bosses really like this song, it's also normal. What is not normal is that the government wants to dance this song with the bosses. That's what's worrying, that's what we need to clarify here. These proposals undermine social security, call into question future pensions and seek to associate themselves with pressure to increase wages. Furthermore, there must be an increase in wages, it is not to replace wages with premiums, which reach some and do not reach others, which discriminate against women; it is not to replace wages with premiums, it is not to say that wages will be increased and that you will have as a counterpart destroy social security or take money from employers' pockets that are from corporate profits taxes. That is not what we need, we need wage increases and we need to know what the Socialist Party thinks about these proposals as well. Unfortunately, today we have not yet been informed of the position of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Monte.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u262	For a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u263	Mr President, I welcome you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Moura Soeiro, the political statement that brought us here does not surprise us and begins by not surprising us at the first point, as far as social consultation is concerned. We are on completely opposite sides with regard to social consultation, because the PSD values social consultation, and has always valued it. We are well aware of the position of the Left Block in this regard. In fact, allow me to address Mr Sérgio Monte, who said that the Socialist Party respects social dialogue and has even been the founder of social dialogue. We must not fail to regret the fact that the Socialist Party, even now in this process — indeed, the Government — has taken a handful of ears from the President of the Economic and Social Council because he was disrespecting social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the content of the proposals that you wanted to discuss here, I would like to say that you are not surprised either, because even last week the PSD has seen a number of proposals that meet precisely what is now mentioned by the CIP of 15. the month. Last week, the Left Block led to a PSD proposal aimed precisely at reducing the tax burden. What do I intend to do? This is a proposal to reduce the tax burden to increase the income of workers, and the Socialist Party — not only the Left Block — also voted against. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u264	Thus, one can see from this that the Socialist Party is in social consultation, but does not want to approve this measure. [[PSD applause.]] You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because, indeed, if they wanted to approve this measure, they would have approved last week the PSD proposal aimed at reducing the tax burden. Mr José Moura Soeiro said that he was very concerned about emigration, the young people who emigrated, the workers who emigrated, and that wages need to be increased. But then they explain to these young people and to those workers because you are against measures that aim to increase their income, reducing the tax burden they have today. That is what you have to explain, because no one can understand how they have a narrative and then, in reality, when it is either to vote or to vote in favour or against, you vote against it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u265	Mr Alfredo Maia now gives the floor to a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u266	Mr President, I welcome Mr José Moura Soeiro on the subject brought here and which cannot be seen as a taboo, even if it is a package of evils coming from the CIP, since it is true that, in recent days, there has been a real campaign of propaganda around supposedly favourable proposals for workers and, in particular, a wage increase — see there! — greater than the most radical of trade union power stations. In fact, it is not superior, because the proposal of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) is 15 % and not 14 percent. What is true is that, there says the old rifão, « when the alms is great, the poor distrust».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u268	So something here was wrong. But I wanted to point out, first, that this position of the CIP demonstrates that there is money to increase wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u269	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u270	... although it does not cease to be framed, in particular as regards, in fact, social security, either as regards the reduction of the single social rate, or as regards other crafts. Here, an answer must be given, of course, in this House. It is necessary to reject the devices of the cut-off of the financing of social security and the attack on the system itself, which this famous social pact entails, and it is necessary to denounce these manoeuvres of the patronage and, now, of the superbank of the CIP...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u271	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u272	...that this gives you support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u273	The representatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u274	There's the CGTP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u275	The social pact of the CIP is a card of tricks to get more tax advantages...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u276	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u277	... and other measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u278	Put notes under the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u279	... in particular this idea of achieving the single IRC rate of 17 % and of financing export expansion. But there are others. in this framework, the Socialist Party, here, in this House, and the Government, have unswerving responsibilities and cannot stand aside from the fundamental problem. And the fundamental problem is, really, increasing wages...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u280	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u282	...and it is to guarantee social security and its financing. This has a concrete meaning, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It means an increase of 15 %, compulsory, and non-voluntary as proposed by the CIP for all workers — therefore not less than 150 € — ; set the national minimum wage at 910 € on 1 January ; advance, during 2024, for the national minimum wage to reach 1000 €; reduce the working day to 35 hours;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u284	Is this a political statement? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u285	...and combat the deregulation of working hours. I will conclude with a question, Mr José Moura Soeiro : you agree or not that, yes, there is certainly money to increase wages, there are effective conditions to increase wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u286	It's about half an hour!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u287	...and whether or not, the patronage, the government and the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u288	Those bandits!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u289	... shouldn't they continue to make excuses, false promises or subfuzes to attack rights and challenge workers' security, or to continue to justify more money for capital, with millions of profits, every day? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u290	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Free movement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u291	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, in his speech, said at some point that this proposal from the CIP brought the promise of a rumbe in social security « through the horse's door». It is a very appropriate expression, « the horse door»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u292	It's beautiful! It's a beautiful expression!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u293	...and it's not any horse. It is a certain wooden horse, left on the outside of the city, saying: « Get me in here, because after once we entered, inside the walls, we will destroy the rest. And apparently there was only one person there who mistrusted and said: "Be afraid of the Greek gifts. Do not keep on seeking. ” Here's a little the same thing. They don't want a 15. the month in exchange for paying less social security, the one you need, in sickness or old age or unemployment, and in return for something we should even take the hat off the bosses, which is paying less IRC? When there are finally international agreements for a single IRC rate, what they are already doing is changing the tax base of IRC and thus changing the perimeter of what should be collectable. And then, in fact, the imagination and the ability of perspective is quite large. I do not think the workers should accept gifts from the bosses, as "the horses of Troy". What we know is that, throughout the world, it has certainly given workers more power: in collective bargaining—and there I know that we agree, I do not have a specific question to ask at this level—but also in co-determination or co-management of companies with workers' participation in the board of directors. I would like to ask whether the Block would be available for a review of the Commercial Code, so that it would be compulsory for companies from a certain size to have workers' representatives, whether it is in Germany — half of the boards of directors, from 2000 to a third, from 300 workers — which is the fact that they would consider appropriate, and if they agree with this idea, which the Book also proposes, of co-determination. And it is the creation of new types of companies, in which workers have the greatest power, and which compete, in particular at the level of wage supply with the companies we have on the market. I would also ask whether the Block would be available to make a reflection with the Free and with civil society, so that finally Article 61. that of the Constitution, which says that the State supports self-management of workers under the law, has a law—because, in fact, the law of self-management has never been done—to follow what were the desires of Article 61. the Constitution. Therefore, as regards co-determination and self-management, I would like to know how far the Left Block would be available to participate in a joint reflection on these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u294	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u295	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, on increases in wages — increases in wages, even wages, which are called 'wage' —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u296	Yes, salary, even salary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u297	... on collective bargaining—because it is because of collective bargaining that wage increases are achieved—and, of course, on the minimum wage, on these three issues, the PSD, Mrs Deputy, said nothing in this debate. I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u298	I can't, I don't have time to talk about everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u299	If employers want to increase wages, they have good medicine: raise wages. You can do it! Has anyone prevented them from raising wages? Has anyone prevented employers' confederations and companies representing to go into collective bargaining and raise wages? [[Protests by PSD Member Jorge Paulo Oliveira and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] Of course! What's the situation? It's just that bosses need to increase wages. They need to increase wages to capture and retain labour in the context in which we are living, and they have money to increase wages, as Mr CFP said. The bosses prove they have money to raise wages and need to increase wages. The question is that they are taking advantage of this context and this pressure to increase wages to derive enormous benefits for themselves from the Government: benefits through giant tax bills and through the weakening of social security, by exempting the payment of part of workers' wages, which is the single social rate, which are the employer's contributions to social security. It is part of the indirect wage of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u300	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u301	... that the bosses are trying not to pay—and therefore subtract—the workers with these proposals. Mr Freeman, it is a « Trojan horse ». It is a "Troia horse" that not only does it not pay the employer TSU, but it also makes it compulsory to make something that, in our country, has never been compulsory, which is an individual plan for reforming the capitalization system.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u302	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u303	In other words, making it compulsory for a part of what is paid to workers to go to the private system, the private pension and protection market in old age, thus jeopardizing future pensions and weakening the public system and social security welfare system. That is why these proposals are a real trick. They're a real slug! The CIP has not changed its position. CIP is defending its interests. Does anyone think here that the CIP suddenly has another position than its usual position? You don't have, you haven't changed your position! The CIP is not defending other interests other than the interests of its associates, i.e. the interests of capital, the interests of companies, employers, of the entrepreneurs that the CIP represents. These are the interests that the CIP is defending. They're the same bosses that block collective bargaining. These bosses haven't changed their strategy. They are the same employers who make tax plans, not to pay taxes that they have to pay on the profits of companies. They are the same employers who make it difficult for workers not only to participate in management control, but in companies, through multiple forms, it is another debate, which we will not have time to make here — the balance of collective labour relations and the participation and intervention of workers in business life and in labour democracy. This proposal from the CIP is part of this strategy. It's part of the defense of these interests. And that is why it is so important to denounce the nature of this proposal from the CIP and not go in the way through which it is involved in a concern about the income of workers, and we need to defeat this proposal. We need to defeat this proposal from the CIP. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u304	To give his political statement on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Leiria district is a region recognized for its economic activity, its cultural heritage, its architecture, its innovation power and the entrepreneurship of its populations. But it is also known by its sun, its sea, its gastronomy, the diversity of its landscapes and the sympathy of its people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u306	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u307	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the design of local representativeness and the consequent political weight for the region are objectives of all Members elected by the district and guarantee that Leiria is and will be treated with the respect and prominence deserved. We know the path we want to follow, the path of education, qualification, personal valorization, environmentally friendly urbanism, the path of investment, technological and scientific research, the path of entrepreneurship, the quality of access to health care, the path of housing, the path of better quality of life. The reason for believing in our district is its continuing and increasing contribution to the achievement of the performance of the national economy, which, as we know, will observe in recent years an economic growth greater than 9 %, a growth based on a robust acceleration in investment, with exports growing to 5 % in the second quarter of this year, of employment to create 300 000 new jobs and the unemployment rate to be fixed at 6 %, accompanying the average wage to be increased 7, 5 % in the second quarter of 2023, and social contributions to be increased 8 %. These data are not empty statistics, are the concrete reflection of the structural change in the economy of our district and our country and the structural correction of macroeconomic imbalances that tormented our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u309	The Leiria district continues to contribute to these results, responding positively to the national effort to create wealth, taking into account the entrepreneurial capacity of its citizens. Leiria and her people are therefore a good example. In the past 20 and 21 days Leiria received the nearest Government initiative, which culminated in the implementation of the Council of Ministers in Leiria, an exercise of governance in the eyes with autarchs, entrepreneurs, associative movement and population. It was an exercise that travelled the 16 municipalities of this district and that recognizes the importance of a capillary network of local organizations, which has an extraordinary capacity for diagnosis and land intervention; an exemplary exercise of governance on the ground, listening to the communities; a visit that leaves a brand in this territory, a brand of work, a brand of dialogue, a brand of cooperation and proximity. Leaves a mark in the economy, with the realization of the balance sheet and situation point of the most transforming program we have in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) : the Mobilizing Agendas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u311	... absolutely decisive to change the profile of the Portuguese economy and leverage our competitive level, making Portugal more resilient and ready to respond to the growing challenges of a global economy. It is a plan that aims to invest more than EUR 7 billion by the end of 2026, creating 18 000 new jobs, with the overwhelming majority of qualified jobs. It was a situation, made in a district that has come to take itself as one of the engines of the national economy, as Mr Prime Minister very well acknowledged at the start of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a district that, over the past eight years, has created 43 000 new jobs, with a turnover of businesses that has increased almost 44 billion euros. It is a mark in the protection of victims of domestic violence, with the creation of nine rooms for the housing of women victims of domestic violence, until April 2024, in Castanheira de Pera, with an investment of €272,000. It is a brand in the social sector, with the inauguration of a daycare at the Souto da Carpalhosa, a Leiria council, where the Minister of Labour announced the payment, on this same day, of the updates of financial participations to the social sector— plus 11% in residential responses and in day centers and 8% in the remaining responses, with retroactive since January. It is a trademark in justice, with the approval on 21st day of the Council of Ministers of the Plurianual Investment Plan between 2023 and 2027, for the area of justice, aimed at strengthening the premises of the Judicial Police ( PJ ), courts and prisons with an amount of EUR 200 million. It is a plan that includes the Leiria district, with an investment of EUR 18 million, of which EUR 12 million is for the court, EUR 780 000 for the premises of the PJ and EUR 5, EUR 4 million for prisons. It is a brand in agriculture, with the opening of the Boco Block elevator station, for hydro-agricultural use of the Lis Valley. It is a brand in the environment, with the construction of the new treatment line of Valorlis, currently in experimental service, for organic recovery of bioresidues, which will have a treatment capacity of 25 000 tonnes per year — an investment of EUR 6, 7 million, co-financed by POSEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ). It is a brand in the regeneration of Pinhal de Leiria, with the birth of a 33-hectare heel in the national forest, destroyed by the 2017 fire, by the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests to the city of Leiria, and with the evaluation of the reinforcement of forest slag teams in the Leiria region. It is a brand in the housing, with the announcement of the extension of interest subsidies — to mitigate the impact of the rise in interest rates, and can assist about 200 000 families — and the fixing of credit benefits for two years, which can benefit one million families. It is a brand in mobility, with the signing of an agreement for the implementation of the sustainable mobility system in the Leiria region, with priority in the links of the urban areas of the municipalities of Leiria and Marinha Grande.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u312	Mr President, you have finished your speaking time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u313	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is a brand in health, with the inauguration of family health units and the Great Navy Health Center, and with a visit to the hospital. Leiria and many other districts applaud initiatives like this and yearn for more, because ruling is this: going to the real country, see, hear and act. This is what this government is doing, and this is what the Portuguese are waiting for from the governments: less Saint Benedict and more Country! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u314	Five Members signed up to request clarification from Mr António Sales, who informed the Bureau that he would respond first to three and then to the last two. Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, therefore, has the floor immediately for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we saw the attempt to respond to that initiative of the President of the PSD « Sentir Portugal ». [[Risos from PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Thus, the Prime Minister, copying what the President of the PSD is doing, makes Councils of Ministers of proximity. It happens that it is a response, but with media requent, i.e., spreading rulers through the Leiria district for protocol signatures, projects, ads, promises, but also openings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u316	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u317	Well, essentially, openings of works financed by the municipalities, not by the central state. I give examples: in Nazareth, the announcement of a project already over 15 years old led the Prime Minister to go do an ant work on the ground, but only spent 11 minutes on the population, and sent the Minister of Infrastructure, João Galamba — stop! — opening rounds. On the West Line, Mr. President of the Alcobaça Chamber has tried well for the government to realize the importance of this for the district, but this is another of those promises on which it is customary to hear this government say: "Now it is! Do not keep on seeking. ” The Minister of Health, this time, had no courage to go to the Queen's Caldas, afraid to be confronted with the question of the West Hospital, or to face the thousands of users in the Leiria district who craved by family doctors. In agriculture, several institutions have been visited, but, for example, they have presented measures that mitigate the devastating consequences that rock pear producers have had, by virtue of the factors external to production, zero! I could scale up, one by one, the areas where somehow announcements have been made, but I want to focus on the business area, to strengthen the need of the government, once and for all, to give political relevance to Leiria in the national context. Quoting the Prime Minister, « Leiria created 43 000 new jobs and the turnover of companies increased almost EUR 44 million ». But what I want to focus on is that the question that arises in particular is whether there will be serious public investment, which supports economic growth leveraged by the strong regional business sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u318	You're going to have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u319	I will finish, Mr. President. What did we have? An action of propaganda, announcements, proposals, executions—is again understood as the result of the efforts of the authorities. Mr António Sales, my question to you is not difficult to answer. What is your strategic vision, 10 years old, for Leiria? Does it see a great public investment there, but real, and not only in the field of virtual promises? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u320	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u321	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr António Sales and by saying that we agree perfectly with the first part of his speech, in which he praised Leiria. We share these praises. The second part is that it was a set of what PS knows how to do well, which is to advertise things. It was a set of ads. PS specializes in ads and is mainly a specialist in announcing free things. You can't give them up later: health is free, but there are no doctors; daycare is free, but there are no breaks; school is free, but there are no teachers; passes are free, but there are no trains. This situation reminds the old slogan of the village bodies: “The Portuguese don’t pay, but don’t walk! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD Members' laughs.]] It's all free, but nothing works, with an important difference: it's that Portuguese pay even for these free things. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] The Portuguese pay the biggest tax burden ever. Each Portuguese pays more than €3,000 per year in taxes and contributions than when the PS took over power.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u322	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u323	But you don't pay for that! The Portuguese pay public services, in taxes, do not have these public services and pay again to access them in private.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u324	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u325	That is why four million Portuguese people in the « free health country » pay for health insurance and subsystems. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] That is why in « the country of free education», one-quarter of high school students walk to private schools. That is why, in the « free pass country », the preferred means of transport of Portuguese is the car. The government promises that the Portuguese will pay nothing when, in fact, nothing is what they receive. So my question is very clear: when do they begin to deliver what they promise? When will they start delivering what they announce? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u326	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for a request for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Sales, what you just did here was an exercise of propaganda, as we have been accustomed to over the past few months. As part of this project of the nearest Government, when you visit a particular region, they always go with the principle of trying to leverage what you have done here and there, with slight references. We have begun to look at the decentralization of competences and we realize that all the promises that you make over time fail. We have very low RPP implementation rates and a completely failed decentralization of competences. It's your fault and PSD's fault, too. It is a bad application of what was a unique opportunity with Law No. 50 / 2018. But now this logic of the nearest government, which comes from a very political strategy, is starting to come up. You want to deconcentrate more and more. And, in this deconcentration, they are visiting the territory in order to ensure that they are exhausting some general directions, some ministries, and they are putting us under the competence of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), thus making an administrative regionalisation with which only you agree, giving a complete footing in the Constitution. Well, we still know what we're gonna do. for the 11 minutes of the nearest government walking around the city, I remembered, a little while ago, when I looked at you, who, as he had responsibility for health care, we liked to see in Leiria how many family doctors are missing. Because people at home, whatever they want to know, are these projects and all these things. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u328	But then, about housing, spread across the country, there is a serious housing crisis in the interior. The arrivals present a proposal for the exemption of tolls, for territorial cohesion, and 'hatéu'! What happens is that the Socialist Party, « ball! », vote against! For municipalities with fewer people, the arrival of the FEF ( Financial Balance Fund ), more funding for the municipalities. And what are you guys doing? For low-density territories, they give less money. But then, propagandizing, they go through the municipality and say they're there to support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u329	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u330	They do not support anything at all and it is regrettable. In conclusion, I leave you with only one question. Since he came from Leiria and he tries so much to leverage the economy, do you know how many family doctors are missing there? Can you explain to us once and for all why there are no family doctors? It is that this is a determining factor for social development, because, without health, there is no work and, without work, we do not generate wealth. We are burying the country from north to south, and you also had responsibilities in this area. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u331	To reply, Mr Antonio Sales has the floor. I remember you tend to have 3 minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u332	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr. Hugo Patrício Oliveira, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto and Mr. Bruno Nunes. I'm going to answer this question of family doctors, perhaps because it was a common issue either to PSD or to arrive, and I'm telling them the following: the goal of universal coverage is nothing new. I recall that the Rabbit Steps program in 2011 already aimed, legitimately, to have universal coverage. Then, in December 2015, I recall that the number of users without a family doctor was 1, 1 million. [[PSD protests.]] The PS Government has sought to reverse this situation and has managed to reduce this number in 2018 to about 690 000 non-family physician users. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] However, as we all know, the amount of retirement is about 1000 doctors per year, that is, about 300 family doctors per year. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And the number of registered individuals since 2015 has increased to over 700,000 enrolled in primary health care. We could also talk about the origin of the problem, which is located in the number clauses in the 70s and 80s. The number of users without a family doctor is actually increasing and is now at a value of 1,5 million, actually higher than 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u333	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u334	Mr Deputy, on 30 June 2023, the coverage of family doctors in Portugal was 83 %. It is clear that this depends on region to region. The northern region has better coverage, for example, than the region of ARS LVT ( Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley ). We had 5913 family doctors, an increase of 853 family doctors compared to 2015. After the last competition in May, we still recruited more than 300 doctors. In Leiria, in Leiria County, we have 57 family doctors and 44 000 users without a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u335	District! Talk about the district!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u336	This year alone, Mr. Deputies, 30 doctors have been reformed. This year, there were 30 retirements, 12 retirements and 3 per mobility contest. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we admit that, in fact, this is a complex problem of solving, that we are all concerned and that we have to be together to solve this problem. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We must take advantage of all the training potential we have. at this moment, we have about 2300 family medicine doctors in training, which is currently taking place. We know that the balance between entries and exits in training is expected to give a peak of inflection to 2026, hoping that in 2026 this balance could become a positive balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u337	It's a question coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u338	We have 2300 doctors in training. I would also like to mention the support that the Leiria Authority has given, in the decentralization of competences, to the location, fixing and retention of family doctors in health centres. But, Mr. Mayor and Mr. PSD Member, I am the President of the Leiria Municipal Assembly...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u339	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u340	...and I have never seen any alternative proposal either from the Arrival, or PSD, at the Municipal Assembly of Leiria! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u341	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u342	Proposals, zero! Proposals, ball! For family doctors, for housing issues, they are all very friendly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u343	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u344	They are all very friendly, but, in fact, the final result is this: alternative proposals in Leiria, either from arrive, or from PSD, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u345	The competency is from here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u346	There is a difference: PSD is a little bit more vocal than arrive, but the result is exactly the same: zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u347	The competency is from here! You don't know your skills!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u348	We will continue with the requests for clarification and now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u350	Just a moment, Mrs. Deputy. These local disputes have their density... [[Pause.]] Let us, then, allow Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to make her request for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Sales, in fact with regard to the « nearest Government », I would like to remind you that we have recently had the debate on the More Habitat package and, despite the issues discussed today, I would like to remind you that this Government initiative has somehow been trying to empty out the debate that was held in Parliament itself. Moreover, the measures were announced precisely when the Most Housing was discussed here, however, they ended up being a hand full of nothing because they pushed the problem forward. We simply look at the moratoriums that delay payment from part of the interest increase to two years, i.e., what we are telling the families is that the measures are late now, but that we are still going to make them pay later and on interest. Then, in addition to this problem and this drag, it is also said: « Do not pay now, pay later, with interest». However, they do not, above all, stop the gula of the banks, when the families had to give their hands to the bank when the bank needed the families. But, Mr President, also with regard to amendments to subsidies: an increase of €80 of the maximum value and the simplification of access in this case, although they go in the right direction, they do not attack the points where this support has just failed. It only covers 15 % of households with housing credit, which means that in every 10 families 8 are out of line. Now, this shows only the inefficiency of this program. The NAP has already advocated measures to change and improve these government proposals, so what I ask you is: how long will the PS take to give the arm to twist and to welcome the proposals that parties like the NAP have made so that the bonus can even reach the families? I also ask whether or not in the State budget they will be available to accept these types of proposals and how long will it take to extend the access criteria, so as to include the calculation of the incomes of all members of the family and not of the aggregate as a whole, as they do with the other support. This is because, in fact, those who are leaving homeless and barefoot are families contrary to the bank. So the PS will have to choose whoever wants to give the hand, if the families, if the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u353	I really am concluding, Mr President. The honourable Member has come to speak of a closer government, and it remains to be known who they want to be closer, whether from the bank or, indeed, from the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u354	For the last request for clarification from the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u355	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the honourable Member on his political statement, but we note that what he has done has been nothing more than an exercise of propaganda, in fact, like what the Government has done to the Leiria region and to the other districts of the country where he has gone through. The truth is that the more than 50 actions, which say they were promoted, have passed alongside those who are structural problems and which affect populations, particularly workers in the Leiria district. In these actions there was no availability on the part of the Government to address an extremely sensitive problem for workers: that of low wages and the need for a general increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u356	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u357	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u358	This will ensure better living conditions, also contributing to the development of the economic activity of the region. He visited schools and hospitals, but did not withdraw the necessary conclusion. We were still talking here about the issue of users who do not have a family doctor, but the question is whether or not the government will effectively value careers and salaries, allowing the establishment of doctors, nurses and health professionals that are necessary not only to assign medical or family nurse, but also to ensure the functioning of services, consultations, surgeries, to ensure that the people have the health care they have right to. We also note that it has gone along with the structural investments that are fundamental to the development of the district. Here I give you three examples: one first, about the new hospital in the West. They have already lost more than 20 years and what is needed is in fact to move forward with this project, not in a business logic with private health groups with another public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u359	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u360	It went along with the need for the modernization of the West Line as a whole, which is a fundamental axis for the mobility of the population in the district.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u361	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u362	There was also no reference to the requalification of CI8 ( Supplementary Itinerary No 8 ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u363	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u364	I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to the fact that there are a number of investments and support that are fundamental to the development of the region. Allow me only two telegraphic references: the measures to support producers of the rock pear or to support fishing, which did not even take place in that action by the Government. What we want to say to conclude, Mr President, is that people, populations are full of talk, people want to actually be concrete and the resolution of the structural problems that affect their lives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u365	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u366	Mr President, thank you very much for the questions put by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Mrs Paula Santos. Well, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, regarding the More Housing package, we know what the route is going: it was returned to Mr. President of the Republic and we have to wait. As far as the State budget is concerned, you will have to wait; of course. In October, you will certainly have answers to your questions. With regard to Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to tell you that the announcements are in fact found in the work and evidence and the honourable Member has given two very concrete examples. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Look, the CHO, West Hospital Center, was a concrete example, is something that affects people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u367	They've been waiting for over 20 years. You've been engaged for more than 20 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u368	Mr Deputy, I would like to value this issue as follows: in fact, as you say, it went through several governments, the PSD and the Socialist Party as well, but finally, what we have is that the West Hospital Center is going to move forward, in a Government of the Socialist Party. This is the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u370	We've heard that for 20 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u371	For me, Mrs. Deputy, as a Leirian citizen, with a footprint in the West region, I do not want to contaminate the discussion with side-by-side aspects to the centrality of the West hospital. It is important for me, indeed, that the hospital should move forward and move forward, in this Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u372	When?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u373	This is the important issue for the lives of people and for the presentation of quality health care in the West. With regard to the West Line, well, the honourable Member knows very well that it is a work in progress, first in the south and then to the north. This qualification of the West Line is already under way. Therefore, these are two paradigmatic examples of infrastructures that are important to the country that are actually taking their way. Mrs. Deputy, I invite you to visit the Leiria district with me, because you probably don't know him...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u374	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u375	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u376	It's a district with 460,000 inhabitants. Look, do you know how many companies you have? [[PCP protests.]] It has 61,000 companies, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u377	What about workers' wages?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u378	You know, Mrs. Member, what is the unemployment rate in Leiria? It is less than 6 %, less than the national average. [[PCP protests.]] And, therefore, Mrs Leiria, and she could give you many other examples, which is worth the Portuguese economy EUR 3 billion in exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u379	What about wages? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u380	And how does that revert to the wages of workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u381	Mrs. Deputy, Leiria, as Mr. Prime Minister said, is one of the motors of the economy in Portugal and is, in fact, very proud that I come to defend you...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u382	Propaganda! Announcements!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u383	They're not ads. What I'm saying is quite evident. These are findings of work in Leiria district. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u384	We will move on to the last political statement to be made by Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Sunday, elections were held in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. My first words are therefore of greeting and gratitude to the people of Madeira who have been called to vote and who have expressed their political will freely and democratically. I also meet all the candidates and, in particular, the winner candidate, Dr. Miguel Albuquerque, for the expressive and powerful victory he obtained. [[PSD applause.]] It was an overwhelming and categorical victory in all the municipalities, I repeat, in all the municipalities of the region and in 52 of the 54 parish. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 47 years later, Maderians and Port-Saintes continue to give their vote of confidence to the PSD-Madeira and to recognize the extraordinary work that has been developed in the region since the beginning of autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u386	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u387	Thanks to the will of the Madeiran people, the region is still painted of orange...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u388	Yes, yes! It's green!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u389	... with the PSD-Madeira strengthening its position on Sunday,... [[PSD applause.]] ... to recover and win in municipalities like Machico, Porto Moniz and Ponta do Sol. This clear victory of the PSD in Madeira is an absolutely extraordinary fact. Otherwise, let's see: it's 13. the consecutive victory since 1976 of a party that is a majority force in the region for 47 years,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u390	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u391	... which represents an almost unique phenomenon in Europe, with the possible exception of the CSU ( Christian Social Union ), in Bavaria. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Madeira are sovereign and have decided that Madeira will begin to have a more plural parliament, consisting of nine partisan forces. We humbly respect their will and the opportunity that it will give to the maturation of our autonomy and to the deepening of the democratic regime. On September 24, there was a clear and unequivocal winner:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u392	Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u393	... a PSD! And an obvious and significant defeat: the PS. [[PSD applause.]] I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there was a clear and unequivocal winner, the PSD, and an obvious and significant defeat, the PS,... [[PSD applause.]] ... that lost almost half of its Members and more than 21,000 votes, having been the political force that lost more votes and more mandates, among all competing forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u394	What about the PAN?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u395	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 24, the Madeiran people rejected socialism again and demonstrated that it is possible to choose another way. [[PSD applause.]] It is possible to choose another path of development and social and economic progress. Madeirans and porto-santenses have supported the policies carried out by the PSD-Madeira in strategic areas such as health, education and housing, policies that contrast well with those followed by socialist governance on the continent. Ladies and gentlemen. Members in Madeira, unlike the Republic, the Government has reached agreement with the professionals. The teachers recovered their full time of service. [[PSD applause.]] And in health, more than 800 professionals were hired, including doctors, nurses and auxiliaries. In Madeira, unlike the Republic, the Government strengthened the supply of housing in the 11 municipalities of the region by providing differentiated support to families through programmes such as REEQUILIBRAR — Programme to support families with housing credit, PRAHABITAR — Programme to support the acquisition and rental of housing, and the Rehabilitation of Madeira — Financial support programme for the rehabilitation of buildings. In Madeira, unlike the Republic, the Government has not escaped its responsibilities and will increase access to housing, with the construction of 800 new fires for young people and the middle class, facilitating the purchase of own housing and encouraging the creation of cooperatives. In Madeira, Mrs. and Mrs. Unlike the Republic, the government reduced public debt and returned to families and businesses more than 420 million in taxes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past four years, the region has overcome the biggest social, economic and public health crisis in its history, even without the solidarity of the Republic. On Sunday, the Madeirans again recognized our work, opted for stability, opted for development, opted for progress and commitment. PSD-Madeira has won and will form government. The will of the Madeirans will be as always fulfilled, already guaranteed stability...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u396	Oh...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u397	... and the conditions necessary for the continuation of this cycle of defence and development of Madeira and Porto Santo in the next four years. By this way, in the Assembly of the Republic, we reiterate our commitment to Madeira and we will continue to defend, intransigently, our region and do everything...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u398	All right! That's all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u399	...to force the Republic to assume its responsibilities with Madeira and with Porto Santo, because there are still many outstanding commitments of the Government of the Republic to the region, for which we will not give up our fight. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Maderians and Port-Saintes continue to review themselves in the PSD-Madeira, in their government policies and to say 'no' to socialism. These elections have also shown us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who in Madeira, as in the country, the engine of transformation, the engine of progress, and above all hope, will always be the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u400	Ui...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u401	Being right, you and Mrs. Members, who will soon invade the territory of the continent by a huge orange wave from the Atlantic, coming from Madeira and the Azores. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u402	The honourable Member has six requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u403	In two blocks of three, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u404	I then give the floor to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u405	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u406	This is the traitor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u407	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, my first word is to congratulate you and the PSD-Madeira for being the most voted coalition party in the elections this Sunday.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u408	And the CDS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u409	That was the sovereign will of the Maderians and the portos-santenses and I subscribe to the first words that he had toward the Madeirans. But let me go further, because you forgot to leave a word to the Macedonians who could not participate in the Sunday elections, because the PSD did not want to make available the mobility vote to the thousands of Maderians and Port-Saintes who were not in the region. That is to be regretted and these citizens cannot be forgotten. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u410	I will not fall into the mistake, in which many fall, to analyze what happened on Sunday in the eyes of a mainland, because we have to analyze what happened in the light of the specificities of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the will and the challenges that the Madeirans and the Portuguese people have. But it is also true that Madeira, obviously, is Portugal, like the Azores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u411	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u412	...and there are odds and improbability that are equal anywhere in the national territory. There are probabilities and probabilities, just like the principles. We could also ignore, but Mrs. Deputy did not ignore, the history of the results of these almost 50 years of PSD-Madeira governments, 44 or 45 of the majority, because I remind you: four years ago, the PSD alone lost the majority and had to link with the CDS-Madeira and now, over four years, they again lost votes, lose percentage, lose the majority... [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] ...and need to add some more party to have a stable legislature. But that is not enough to catch up on the road, because otherwise they will continue on this path to lose the majority, to lose their votes and any day they do not rule, and that may also be good.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u413	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u414	Mr. President, I will conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u415	It's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u416	... because, in fact, there are things that we cannot ignore in Madeira, such as, for example, 11 % of the population in deep deficiency, 30 % at risk of poverty, one of the highest illiteracy rates in the country, and many other data. [[Protests from PSD MP Patrícia Dantas.]] So what I'm asking is, for when is more freedom for the Madeirans, lowering taxes? For when is more freedom with better access to health care? For when is more freedom for the Maderians to vote in mobility? When will freedom increase, not by implementing measures that will destroy the main industry in the region, which is tourism, but by making Madeira no longer dependent on monoculture, on the "mono-industry" of tourism? What are you gonna do? Less taxes, more health? What are you going to do to end the dependence of a single industry on Madeira? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Patrícia Dantas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u417	Jealousy is a terrible feeling!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u418	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u419	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Members, first of all, a word of greeting to the good people of Madeira and Porto Santo who, on last Sunday, have proved their political and democratic maturity. The people voted and, in a very clear way, showed a red card to the PS. Not only to PS like António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u420	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u421	Madeirans and porto-santenses showed by the vote that the place of socialism is out of government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Also by voting they showed that they did not want a majority of the PSD. The great winner, my friends, was André Ventura and the Arrival! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP laughter.]] We've moved from zero to four Members! We had an increase of 55, 7% compared to the last elections. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It can hurt, but it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u422	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u423	The arrival thanks the Maderians and the Porto-Saintenses. The Madeirans said they wanted a right-wing, conservative and patriotic majority to defend autonomy, agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as family and life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u424	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u425	But, unfortunately, Miguel Albuquerque and Luís Montenegro betrayed their voters and the Portuguese and showed that PSD's "D" fell sharply. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the usefulness of two socialist parties in the Portuguese political system? How do national PSD Members view the fact that their party in Madeira is a hostage to an animalistic extremist from the NAP? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u426	Don't worry about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u427	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, we wanted to begin by pointing out that the loss of the absolute majority by the PSD/CDS coalition, the loss of absolute power, is a proof of the saturation of a policy that is generating, intensifying social inequalities and injustice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u429	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u430	... a policy that increased and increased the gap between the rich and the poor, the development gap of the islands themselves, which leaves the populations to be abandoned and which increases inequality between territories. It is a result that demonstrates not a desire for continuity, but a desire for change. It is the saying'sufficient'...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u431	Say "Come"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u432	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u433	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u434	Now they've got the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u435	... with private health groups that destroy public health. What people want, and they have demonstrated this by their vote, is change. People wish to have opportunities for life, equality, access to their rights, health, education, decent wages. That is the message that the people of Madeira and Porto Santo left with their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u436	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u437	On the other hand, the result of PS, which is largely lost in its electoral expression, shows that it is becoming increasingly difficult to disguise essentially the alignment of the options between PS and PSD, which, moreover, are the ideas shared also by the CDS, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and, apparently, also by the PAN. [[CH protests.]] And if four years ago they were able to exacerbate bipolarization between the left and the right, the contempt that the PS gave to that trust that was deposited with him, now, he was unable to reverse this cycle and did not convince anyone. These results also show that words and promises, for some, take them to the wind...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u438	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u439	... either to those who, through blackmail, of pressure, announces that they only govern under certain conditions, and after all not; or to those who bind themselves to political options...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u440	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u441	I will finish, Mr. President. For those who are bound by the political options that the people of Madeira have rejected...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u442	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u443	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u444	But, in conclusion, Mr President, I would like to highlight the outcome of the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition) with a significant increase against everything and against all, against the wishes of many... [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]] ...in a reinforcement, in a framework of reduction of the electoral mass, when there was a prediction that we would leave the Assembly, which shows that politics based on truth, eyes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u445	Eyes in the eyes, they stood in front of the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u446	... for the interests of the workers and the people, really, compensates. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u447	That elbow is too bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u448	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga Costa to respond to this set of requests for clarification, because there are very important questions here and Mrs Sara Madruga Costa has the greatest pleasure in responding, not only because she is a very different Maderian, but also because she is a high-capacity Member. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u449	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying the following: in the last days you have witnessed something that is quite charged in our democracy, that is, it seems now that the victories, when they are from the PSD, are considered defeats and the defeats of the other parties are considered victories,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u450	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u451	...which is something that never ceases to be loaded. [[PSD applause.]] Now, there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who won these elections was the...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u452	Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u453	... PSD-Madeira and expressively. It is therefore necessary to respect what was the unequivocal will of the Macedonians and the port-saintenses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u454	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u455	I would also like to say, with regard to the honourable Member of the European Union, that, regardless of who he or she considers to be the winner of these elections, he or she is going to rule itself, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it's PSD-Madeira and Dr. Miguel Albuquerque. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] We know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what's bothering you is enough! What bothers him is that he thought he was going to have a preponderant role that the Madeirans didn't want to give him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u456	We had four Members! Four!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u457	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really the PSD-Madeira that will rule in the coming years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u458	We're not mules!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u459	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, responding to the Liberal Initiative, I would like to say that we thank Mr Rodrigo Saraiva for the vote on the achievement of our victory. However, as Mr Rodrigo Saraiva well knows, the regional political system in Madeira is parliamentary and, as it is Parliamentary and the Liberal Initiative now has a Member there, what the PSD expects is the contribution of the Liberal Initiative's Member to the deepening of various matters. The subject which you have specified here, the amendment of the mobility vote, as you know, is within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic, it is necessary to amend the electoral law and, therefore, it is not true what you said here, namely that it is Madeira that does not want to change it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u460	It's from here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u461	We will therefore wait to see what the Liberal Initiative will also do in relation to this issue in the Parliament of Madeira, so we count on your contribution, as well as the contribution of all party forces in the Assembly of the Republic to the deepening of our autonomy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u462	We now move on to the second group of requests for clarification and I now give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u463	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, I did not want to enter into interpretations of the election results,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u464	Some who won the elections...!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u465	...I wanted to leave a guarantee to the PSD-Madeira, but, after hearing it, I cannot help telling you that the interpretation of the election results does not come from the other banks or, even, from the other parties or, even, from journalists and commentators. Who opened the way to interpret this result as a defeat for PSD was Miguel Albuquerque when he promised to resign if he did not have an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u466	All right, Joana! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u467	Therefore, turning back, does not alter the interpretation he himself gave, which is: ‘If I do not have an absolute majority, I consider a defeat and I will resign’ — although it has not happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u468	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u469	You wanted him and you're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u470	Our interpretation is independent of the absolute majority or of the agreements that were at the disposal of the Madeira PSD, of which the Left Block was obviously outside.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u471	The Block only enters into agreements with the PS! You can't make agreements with us because you have a lot of real estate interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u472	Our interpretation is that the Madeirans will continue to be subject to the Government of real estate interests, the Government of Economic Links, the Government responsible for the housing crisis in Madeira, a government that looks at Madeira as a luxury resort, similar to the Government of the Republic that looks at the country as a luxury resort. Perhaps that is why the Madeirans have not found an alternative in the two major parties and perhaps also, perhaps, the PSD has lost the absolute majority, without it being reflected in a « bipartisanization», as happened in the past, even though the Madeira PSD has, by paraphrasing Alberto João Jardim, the press and the means of government to win votes and voters. for our part, we have made the faithful commitment to the Madeiran people—that others have not done! — to continue to be a firm, responsible and left-wing opposition to this Government of real estate to which the Madeirans are subjected...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u473	Look at Robles loose in Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u474	... and that has had only as a consequence poverty and lack of social development in the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u475	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u476	I will finish, Mr. President. It is this commitment that moves and will move our Mr. Roberto Almada. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u477	I now give the floor to the PAN, to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u478	Mr President, I begin by welcoming not only all the political forces that have competed for the regional elections of Madeira, as well as the people of Madeira and Portugal for this result. This because it was possible not only to break the totalitarianism that existed in Madeira,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... how to have a more plural Parliament and, therefore, healthier for democracy. The NAP was undoubtedly a great revelation and the great surprise of the night: we brought a fresh breath of air to this Parliament. [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u479	There was a surprise, no doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u480	You're going to be the fastest independent deputy in history!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u481	It is precisely because we do not put the towel on the ground and we are a responsible opposition that we can guarantee that we do not say that we do not agree with the commitments we have made with the Madeirans and with the port-saintenses. For this reason, the NAP will ensure that Lauriesilva will be preserved, that there will be passes and social health, that shelter houses will be guaranteed for victims of domestic violence and the right to housing. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] That's why we're not going to run on the lead to see who shouts taller, because that track is already filled. It is already filled by a wide opposition and for this petition the NAP does not give, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CH protests.]] Moreover, in addition to this agenda that the NAP managed to use and for which it also mobilized the Social Democratic Party in Madeira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u482	Don't forget the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u483	... in these elections, the NAP also dropped the myth that governance can only be done in two ways: either with an absolute majority or, then, with the vote of fear, believing that the devil comes there or, in this case, alliances or alternatives of populist right. Because Portuguese and Madeirans do have democratic alternatives! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u484	Because the « D » that Mr from the Arrival spoke of is very alive and well assured with political forces of the democratic spectrum such as the PAN, here in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u485	Is it "D"?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u486	... and also in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. In fact, before these elections, I remember that the arrival was aimed at reaching power, but the NAP rejected a governance agreement and effectively has an agreement of parliamentary incidence...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u487	What about the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u488	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u489	Look, Inês, 4 - 1!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u490	... and says "yes" to block the archaic agenda, shameless and conservative of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u491	Talk about CDS's sloppy agenda!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u492	What about hunting? What about the animals?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u493	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u494	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. [[CH protests.]] As regards the'strike side by side' of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u495	Don't talk about shooting, talk about hunting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u496	... and to your concern about hunting, I think there will be those who will devote themselves more to gardening,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u497	And the raspberries? What about the stoves?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u498	...particularly to the 3046 trees we promise to plant, and to shoot the plate. [[CH protests.]] Therefore, we are fully convinced that our agreement and the principles and values that are poured into it will be fulfilled and that we will have an environmental cluster with principles and values of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u499	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u500	Banana's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u501	On the day that this is not accomplished, the NAP will be here to take due account of the political consequences. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[CH protests and PAN and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u502	I will now give the floor to Mrs Marta Freitas, but she did not want to do so - without having been able to make a greeting on behalf of Parliament before - since it is a birthday - and to express the desire for a long life - and happy, now, if I may. You have the word. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u503	Mr President, thank you for your congratulations, I assume as from all the banks represented. Moving on to the thing that brings us today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, indeed, the results of the elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira were not what we wanted. We wanted a political change in Madeira, but the people are sovereign and the people thus did not understand that responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u504	But...?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u505	But the sovereign people did not intend to give the PSD-Madeira an absolute majority either. And that reveals what? That the link with the CDS is a round failure. [[Rice from PSD Members Miguel Santos and Sara Madruga da Costa.]] I still say more : Miguel Albuquerque really promised, as today was said, that if he had not... [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] Listen, Mrs. Deputy. He promised that, if he did not have the absolute majority, he would resign, but quickly had to swallow those words, in a pure hypocrisy exercise and political 'flic-flac'. He had to swallow his words.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u506	They also won the elections in a little way!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u507	« By the mouth the fish dies», and the truth is that the fish that bit the hook was the PAN, right? [[NAP protests.]] It didn't take much for that and soon they forgot the big flags. PAN said he was going to protect Lauriesilva, but he quickly forgot...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u508	Let's protect, it's in the deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u509	...of what I was defending. It will not oppose the construction project of the road of the Ginjas, nor the construction project of the cable car of the Curral das Freiras. [[NAP protests.]] Those who voted in the NAP know they've been sold a little bit. Everything is regrettable, without any political support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u510	All right! Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u511	It's in the deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u512	Democracy is only when the PS wins!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u513	The most important thing to say is that, really, the region remains orange, but that is why it continues to be the region of the country with a higher rate of risk of poverty, with lower income, with less purchasing power, with a frightening wage inequality, with 17 000 people who have left the region and, in all the municipalities of the region, we have a number of older people greater than the number of young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u514	It's a show!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u515	In conclusion, I think it is important to leave here, as already mentioned, Alberto João Jardim's words in the heat of the elections: "The result of the PSD is very little for a government that has had a strong social communication and is very little for a government that has had a lot of money. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from PSD MP Patrícia Dantas.]] And he also said, about the national PSD leader, Luís Montenegro, that he did not celebrate any victory, because there was no victory, that for Madeira this is humiliating and that he is proving to be still very hot.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u516	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u517	Mrs. and Mrs Deputies, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, would you like to say something about these statements made by the former President of the PSD-Medeira and the regional government? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u518	What a figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u519	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u520	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u521	I'm sorry, we didn't listen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u522	For the defence of the honor of the NAP, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u523	So I'm going to give the floor immediately to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to defend her honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u524	The honourable Member has just said that the NAP had been'sold for a short time'.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u525	I'm sorry, but that's not a defense of honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u526	I have listened to the honourable Member very carefully, thank you for listening to me too, because I am exercising my right. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u527	The NAP made an agreement where it was well expressed not only that the Laurissilva Forest will be protected, as will be reassessed the Ginjas road project, the Curral das Freiras, as well as all environmental material projects. By the way, Mrs. Member, I remember... [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] Mr. President, I would like to finish. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u528	You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u529	By the way, Mrs Deputy, given that we are talking about an agreement of parliamentary incidence, perhaps, if I were Mrs Deputy, I would be more concerned about the honour of your own bench and about keeping the word you also gave, not only to the PAN, but to other political forces, when we negotiated the State budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u530	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u531	...to then the Socialist Party fails to comply with what it has approved. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, do not worry about the agreement of parliamentary incidence in Madeira, worry, first, about the word that is given here and that very few times is honored. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u532	The honourable Member should not have given her the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u533	It was just the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u534	You invoked the NAP and I understood that, in this circumstance, it was appropriate, but, in fact, you should only have used the word to defend honor in the terminal part of our debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u535	There's an oak in here, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u536	Now, in order to explain, if you understand it, you have the floor of Mrs Marta Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u537	No, no, it's also for defense of the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u538	Mr President, the defence of honor concerns something personal, which has not been mentioned in this speech. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u539	That's so wild! You need Castello water, with a lemon roll!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u540	I simply referred to the reversal of the NAP position with regard to its flags in Madeira. I think this is natural and, freely, I have the right to refer to this reversal of NAP flags in Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u541	Episode exceeded. Let us then respond to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u542	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Mortágua, the only party that has the right to rule in Madeira is the PSD, which has won in all the councils and 52 of the 54 parishes, Mrs Deputies. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Member, if there is a party in this House that can't talk about real estate interests is the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u543	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u544	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am replying to Mrs PAN, the environment and nature conservation area has long been strategic in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. I can give you several examples: Madeira created the country's first natural reserve in the Wild Islands in 1971, which has already been increased by 21 times by this regional government. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Laurissilva of Madeira has been a world heritage of humanity since 1999.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u545	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u546	Madeira has the best environmental quality index in all seven major regions of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u547	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u548	Madeira has already planted more than 1, 5 million trees with this Madeira regional government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u549	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u550	We are committed to continuing this work that has been developed by the region since 1971...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u551	Since 1971? Again?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u552	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u553	We therefore hope, Mrs Deputies, as you have pointed out, that this agreement will be fulfilled. But in order for an agreement to be fulfilled, two wills are needed and, at this moment, all conditions are certainly met.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u554	All but enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u555	... to make this a successful agreement, in the same way that it was a successful agreement the coalition, over the past four years, between the PPD / PSD and the CDS. Finally, addressing Mrs. Deputy of the Socialist Party Marta Freitas. Madam Member, I begin by saying the following: it is strange that this request for clarification has not been made by the Member of this House with the greatest direct responsibility for this PS defeat in Madeira, Madam Member! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] One of the masters of this lab of experiences that the Madeira PS ended up being is not in this house today. [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] by sight, he is more committed to campaigning in the circle of where it is natural instead of being here defending the interests of the Madeiran people who elected him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u556	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u557	Mrs. Deputy, that's wrong with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u558	But, Mrs. Deputy, moving forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u559	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u560	Mr. President, I will conclude. With regard to promises and non-compliance with the word, the PS is champion, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u561	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u562	Therefore, honourable Member, put your hand into your conscience, see what your bench is doing and worry about what resulted from the election night. It is that, contrary to what happened in 2019, when António Costa appeared at the foot of Paulo Cafófo claiming a historical result of PS in Madeira, Antonio Costa now remained silent in relation to the loud defeat that PS obtained in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u563	All right! [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u564	In fact, the only words of Prime Minister Antonio Costa were to congratulate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u565	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u566	... President Miguel Albuquerque for the excellent work he has been doing in Madeira. [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] Therefore, honourable Member, this is an objective fact. Concern is to make the Socialist Party in Madeira an alternative rather than that laboratory of failed experiences in which it has become. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u567	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, political statements are coming to an end. I think it is right to give a greeting and a compliment to the Macedonians and Porto-Saintes for the way they went to the polls and made this moment of democracy in Portugal more. Now, for some important information, I give the floor to Mrs. Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u568	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos. 919 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) and 920 / XV / 2. a ( PAN ), which fall to 5. the Commission, as well as draft Resolution Nos 902 / XV / 2. a ( BE) and 903 / XV / 2. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-09-27.u569	I will announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting. Our work begins at 3 p.m. and the first point is the general debate of Bill No 88 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposes Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 2100 and strengthens standards for the prevention and control of smoking, which drags Bills Nos 879 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August, amends the labelling in tobacco products in order to eliminate photographs or illustrations of combined health warnings and give more prominence to available anti-smoking support options and 881 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The second amendment to Law No 88 / 2019 of 3 September, known as the « Law of the Beats », is made in order to ensure its most efficient, effective and transparent application as well as Draft Resolution No 868 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of incentives for correct discarding and re-use of tip tobacco products. The second point is the debate of draft resolution No 853 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government change the registration rules in the daycare centres that adhere to the Creche Felis programme by giving priority to children with working parents, together with the Bills No 876 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Freedom of choice of day care, 877 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Includes children with both parents to develop professional activity in the criteria for access to free day care and 882 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates extraordinary support for the frequency of daycare or daycare, for children who have not had access to the vacancy covered by the free social and solidarity sector or on the licensed daycare facilities of the private profit network, in general. The third point is the general debate of Bill 862 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Program of valorization of artistic education, 883 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Identifys specialized artistic education, providing for the identification of needs and public responses, the creation of artistic scholarships and the hiring of specialized teachers and 928 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Enlargement of the public specialized artistic education network. Finally, the fourth item on the agenda is the discussion of Bill No. 522 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Charter of fitness for cereal cultivation, promotion of cereal production and follow-up of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Cereal Production and 305 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Promotes national agricultural production with a view to achieving sustainable food sovereignty and security in general and resolution projects Nos 604 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government ensure the continuity of the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal and that it consider, in the next State budget, the financial resources that are inherent in its functioning and mission and 869 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of superior technicians for the Portuguese Bank of Germoplasma Vegetal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish our work. Thank you very much and until tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 10 minutes.]]
