ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to begin our work, so I declare open the session, apologizing to everyone for the delay. [[It was 15 hours and 13 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. The first item on our agenda is the debate on the priorities of the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( c ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To open the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr. Tiago Antunes. I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the year in which 30 is signed. the anniversary of the opening of negotiations for accession to the European Union ( EU ), Sweden assumes for the third time the Presidency of the Council, and does so at a time especially challenging for the Union and for Europe as a whole. Inserted into the trio of presidencies which was inaugurated by France at the beginning of 2022 and pursued by the Czech Republic in the second half of last year, Sweden will assume functions with a far different reality from what was initially seen in the trio programme, a reality that calls us all to revitalize and strengthen our common foundations. Since last February, the European Union has been united in unequivocal support for Ukraine in political, humanitarian, financial and military levels. At the same time, he identified his own weaknesses and dependencies towards Russia and has sought them, especially in the energy field. The last few months have been marked by the need to find a firm and robust collective response at European level, capable of dealing with the multiple economic and social repercussions of war, and the fact is that Russian aggression on Ukraine and all its serious implications in our lives will continue to condition the European agenda. No one can truly estimate until the conflict is prolonged, but it is true that, as long as it lasts, it will continue at the top of the priorities, dominate the conclusions of successive European councils and dictate the need for new extraordinary measures to face the consequences of war. at the same time, as it is expressly recognised by the Swedish Presidency, we must remain committed to the commitment to ecological and digital transitions and continue to ensure a path of progressive reduction of social inequalities. In the face of these challenges, which all of us call on, Sweden presented its programme and identified four major priorities of its Presidency. First, security and unity. in this area it will be crucial to continue to guarantee the security of Europe, which is at stake in the ongoing conflict. The Swedish Presidency will have the task of ensuring the unity of the Union in the continuation of support for Ukraine, supporting the reconstruction of the country and monitoring its progress as a candidate country. Considering the need for the Union to assume greater responsibility for European security, the Swedish Presidency will seek to implement the objectives of the Strategic compass, also giving priority to internal security and the fight against organised crime. in this area, it is essential to maintain and even strengthen cooperation between the European Union and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and, in this regard, we hope that ratification processes for the accession of Finland and Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation can be completed shortly. Secondly, the focus on competitiveness and resilience. This will be another priority axis of the new Presidency, which emphasizes the need to make efforts to ensure the European Union's growth and economic dynamism. To this end, Sweden stresses that it is crucial to ensure the proper functioning of the single market — 30 of which. the anniversary is also signed this year—and the establishment of trade relations with other countries and regions of the world. in this context, it is highlighted the need to ensure that European companies have the best possible conditions to compete in the global market. Sweden will, for example, commit itself to the inclusion of digital services in new trade agreements at internal market level and to continuing work on the European semiconductor ecosystem. To reduce the dependence of the European Union on key sectors and strengthen its strategic autonomy, the Swedish Presidency will seek to move forward with initiatives that promote greater diversification in economic partners and a commitment to own production. We support this ambition to strengthen the means, resources and conditions in Europe without ever closing their doors, i.e. by rejecting self-sufficient logics. What we need, as the Swedish Presidency programme recognises, is to increase European competitiveness and efficiency, placing ourselves in critical and technologically advanced sectors and diversifying sources of access to essential resources to make European businesses and products more competitive at a global level. Thirdly, with regard to the ecological and energy transition, this Presidency has as its ambition to conclude the negotiations of the Fit for 55 package, which is truly capital for combating climate change. It also intends to continue its efforts to respond to rising energy prices while at the same time paying attention to the structural reform of the energy market. in this context, the Swedish Presidency will focus on the new regulatory framework for batteries and negotiations on increasing green energy production.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u4	In fact, in our view, the need to find alternatives to the supply of energy raw materials from Russia leads to the need first and foremost to find alternatives to fossil fuels themselves — clean and renewable alternatives — which will accelerate the energy transition and increase the ambition for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The way forward is to continue, with even more careful determination and speed, the structural agenda for combating climate change. Now, the REPowerEU programme, which underpins the European Union's energy diversification strategy, is exactly that: a way of vitaminizing climate transition efforts, with more renewables and a strong commitment to hydrogen. Finally, fourthly, with regard to the defence of democratic values and the rule of law, the Swedish Presidency will continue to launch the various instruments which have been developed within the framework of the Union to promote and enforce the values in which the European project is based. In a constructive and pragmatic way, the ongoing procedures under Article 7 will continue. the Treaty on European Union, the conditionality procedure, as well as the various bodies and formats of structured dialogue at the level of the Council, on respect for the rule of law in the various Member States. The Swedish Presidency will also work to ensure that human rights, democracy, the rule of law and gender equality have an impact on the common foreign and security policy. At a time of threats to democracy at global level—very real threats, as unfortunately we have been witnessing recently—the voice of the European Union is now more important than ever, and Portugal will also continue to join its voice in the defence of fundamental rights and the rule of democratic law in Europe and the rest of the world, and it is certain that, in our view, when we talk about fundamental rights, it is equally important not to lose sight of social rights. Therefore, in conjunction with the Swedish Presidency, we will organise, in the next month of May—and then every two years—the Port Social Forum to keep the European Pillar of Social Rights alive on the European agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u6	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Government looks at the main priorities of the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u7	Of course! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u8	They will also be part of our priorities for the next six months. We all count on you to continue to defend a more secure, competitive, more sustainable and more democratic Europe, a Europe that knows how to meet the enormous challenges ahead. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u9	To intervene in the time reserved for the Socialist Party, I begin by giving the floor to Mr Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u10	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are today called to discuss the priorities of the Swedish Presidency, a Member State whose model of society, built during the 20th century by the social-democracy, has been, and still, for many of us, a reference and an inspiration. The vicissitudes of history, however, stated that this presidency was led by a minority government with the parliamentary support of the extreme-rights, being the Prime Minister, curiously, the leader of the third largest party. This singularity, however, does not prevent us from making a successful vote on Sweden in its third presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u12	A presidency of the Council is perceived by its proclamations, but it is assessed by its results. As regards the proclamations, reflected in the main priorities, they fully welcome the support of the PS Parliamentary Group and I was therefore able to point out at the hearing with the Swedish Ambassador that the European Committee on European Affairs promoted two days ago on this subject, it is also worth taking into account the speeches of the parliamentary groups present by the overwhelming majority of this House. These priorities are in line with the work programme of the European Commission for 2023, which we are also discussing with Commissioner Elisa Ferreira this week, at an extended session with the presence of the President of the European Parliament and the Secretary of State for European Affairs and the broad participation of diplomats, European, national and regional Members and representatives of civil society. Indeed, it is difficult to disagree with the priority given to the security and unity of the European Union, which includes unequivocal political, economic and military support for Ukraine against the criminal Russian invasion. Similarly, the resilience and competitiveness of the European Union, with a view to boosting its industrialization and economic growth, must not fail to deserve our unqualified support, as well as the renewed commitment in the green, digital and energy transition, with a view, in particular, to combating price volatility and, in the long run, to ensure Europe's independence from fossil fuels. Equally unquestionable for us is, of course, the priority given to defending democratic values and the rule of law. As for the results, the degree of success of the Presidency will depend on the progress made by the various legislative proposals in this six-month period. I would remind you that you are on the pipeline of the European initiatives 116 proposals, 51 of which are recent, waiting for the presentation by the Commission in the short term of others of great urgency and relevance. I do not believe that the Swedish Presidency is able to complete many relevant dossiers, except for Fit for 55, which includes 13 legislative proposals and which, if achieved, will certainly constitute the mark of the Swedish Presidency. in this regard, Mr Secretary of State, given the short-term and regrettable format of this debate, I would just like to ask about the expectations of the Portuguese Government regarding the development of proposals that are particularly important for our country, which the Commission will present in the short term and which will know how to deal with it in the Swedish half-year, specifically with regard to the reference framework for the 2024 budget and the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u13	Even within the time of the Socialist Party, Mr. João Paulo Rebelo has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u14	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: In fact, the European Union has a long history, but it is important to underline what has happened most recently to contribute to its cohesion, in particular to solidarity between its countries and its peoples. In 2008 there was a global financial crisis, the subprime crisis, which had repercussions on people's lives. At the time, we remember well that the European Union's response was not solidarity, it was not a genuine union, which, of course, brought serious consequences on the citizens and, I would say, on behalf of the European Union itself. More recently, about the health crisis of the shelter, which then depolated an economic crisis, a financial crisis and a social crisis, the European Union has responded well, because it has responded together, consistently and in solidarity. The Secretary of State has also told us, even now, about the European response to this Russian invasion of Ukraine, which has been precisely solidarity and unity. Why do I remember this, Mr. Secretary of State? Because recently the United States of America approved the so-called Inflation Reduction Act ( IRA ). Now, we are talking about an unprecedented package of more than $350 billion to help American industrial resilience, aiming also at responding to the objectives, all virtuous, of energy transition and of its own sustainability. We have nothing against it, but the European Union is already making a reflection — and it must necessarily do — because this support that the United States will give to its industry will also have an impact on European industry. Mr Secretary of State, this discussion is under way and, of course, having nothing against the support granted in the United States of America, I think that there is a desire on the part of the European people for some flexibility in the rules and support so that we can, in fact, respond equally to US policies. It is on this subject that I would like to ask you a specific question, which is basically a question, but I really hope that there is no doubt about it. I hope that the answer that the European Union is preparing to give this situation is, once again, solidarity, that the lesson of recent times, that we are, in fact, stronger when we respond in solidarity, has been well learned. It is unthinkable for me that some countries can have the said flexibility in supporting their industries because these start, as we know, from a different pattern than that of other countries in the Union. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know whether the Portuguese Government will insist during the Swedish Presidency, which is now under way, so that the European spirit is in order to remain united, cohesive, supportive in the response to the wishes of the people, without giving space to the populist drift we have witnessed in recent times — something that Mr Secretary of State has also conveyed to us today — that does not reflect more than the frustration of the people when they see that the politicians and politicians do not give them the answers they deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u15	Mr Ricardo Sousa of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Sweden receives the rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union from the hands of the Czech Republic, which can carry out its mission in full, since, during the second half of 2022, it has managed to maintain the unity of the 27 Member States in response to the crisis, in particular the conflict in Ukraine. However, as I have already had the opportunity to speak with the Swedish Ambassador, the Czech Presidency has failed to successfully close the process of entering Bulgaria and Romania into the Schengen area, due to the blockade of Austria and the Netherlands. The Schengen area allows more than 400 million people to travel freely between Member States without border controls, with approximately 3 million people crossing their internal borders every day. Since 1 January 2023, Croatia has become 27. the country of full right in the Schengen area, which we naturally welcome. However, we find it difficult to understand the Council's negative ruling on the decision not to join Romania and Bulgaria, since there are independent evaluations by the Commission and the Member States that say that these countries are fully prepared to enter the Schengen area. We believe that this Council decision is incomprehensible. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, given that in his priorities the Swedish Presidency points out that it intends to strengthen the security of the Union and of European citizens, my question is whether the Government does not consider that the enlarged Schengen area makes Europe more secure and favours economic growth. [[PSD applause.]] The second question concerns the war in Ukraine, which is certainly the biggest crisis the European Union has ever had to face. So far, governments and European institutions have dealt well with this crisis. If we look at the last year, we can say that the European Union's response was faster, stronger and more cohesive than most of us could anticipate. Decisions were taken that might seem inconceivable to us a year or two ago on the willingness to implement successive sanctions packages, on the desire to coordinate military support for Ukraine and even on the desire to adopt protection mechanisms for refugees. However, it seems to us that from now on the Union can face greater difficulties in continuing to maintain this cohesion between the Member States. There are difficulties in the application of sanctions packages and, as we enter the winter, there are economic and political costs arising from these decisions which can be felt in the Member States. Moreover, it is assumed by the generality of policymakers that the Union should prepare for a prolonged war scenario. in this context, Mr Secretary of State, I ask: do you consider that the priorities of the Swedish Presidency have taken into account this reality that Europe faces, in a situation of prolonged conflict, to be able to maintain the cohesion of the Union? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u17	Even within the time reserved for the PSD, Mr. Paulo Ramalho now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u18	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: 'A more secure, greener and freer Europe' — it was with this slogan that Sweden launched its rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union, inheriting from Czech leadership a scenario of economic and energy crisis, still and always with the war in Ukraine as the background. In fact, the Union entered in 2023 in a very short-lived context, debating itself with an economic crisis that is threatening to worsen and which may even become a recession, in the light of a galloping inflation and an increase in energy prices, while trying to prevent gas supply problems. With the widespread conviction that the conflict will be dragged through 2023, the unity of the 27 Member States in response to the Russian military aggression against Ukraine, which was seen as one of the major successes of the Union in 2022, will also be at the top of the priorities of the Swedish Presidency of the Council, as has already been said. It was not by chance that Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson, who took office only last October, stressed the need for work for internal and external security of the Union, stating that « the Union which has become synonymous with peace, freedom and trade now lives next to a type of war that once created the European Union's own need ».
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u20	But if it is true that the war in Ukraine will mark the six months of the Swedish Presidency of the Council, it should be pointed out that its programme also states that Europe's strength, resilience and global position depend on our economic production, which is closely linked to the single market and global trade opportunities, further reinforcing that economic actors are working with the operation in the world's largest single market and competing successfully in world markets, laying the foundations for Europe's wealth, well-being and international position, and that the European Union must continue to provide the best possible conditions for a solid and open economy based on free competition, private investment and successful digitalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u22	On the other hand, the programme of the trio of the French, Czech and Swedish Presidency refers to the intention to contribute to shape the new system of economic and global governance, based on an ambitious and balanced free trade agenda, articulated around the World Trade Organisation and complemented by a bilateral trade agenda, while at the same time protecting the European Union from unfair and abusive practices and ensuring reciprocity. Mr Secretary of State, we all know that the European Union's trade policy is also used as a vehicle for the promotion of European principles and values, from democracy and human rights to the environment and social rights. Does it therefore consider that in this context of Swedish Presidency priorities there can be progress on trade agreements in which negotiations are under way between the European Union and, for example, Mercosur ( Southern Common Market ), Chile, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand? One final note: no one doubts whether the escalation of Russia's war on Ukraine endangers peace and security, not only at European level but also worldwide, and highlights the importance of the strategic partnership between the European Union and the Western Balkans region. In addition to the unacceptable violation of international law, Russia is the only one responsible for the current energy and economic crisis. So we ask: how should Europe deal with enlargement to Ukraine, Moldova or the Western Balkans? Is this the best time, when Russia is waging a war of aggression also against the idea of the rule of law? Is it vital to pursue the necessary economic and political reforms in countries that want to enter, i.e. to comply with the Copenhagen criteria?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u23	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u24	Does the Union believe that, in an environment of insecurity that is threatening to other countries, it should make commitments and strengthen cooperation in such areas as energy or security? Can the idea of the European Political Community, by Macron, be a good model for developing this cooperation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u25	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u26	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: As regards the Swedish Presidency of the European Union, we want to underline three points. Of course, migration issues. The Swedish Presidency says it intends to move forward with the migration and asylum pact. But that pact must be rejected, in so far as it intends to establish new legal forms of migration to the Member States of the Union. However, the generality of these States has already exhausted their capacity to absorb more migrants. We will have to work to significantly reduce the number of migrants, but the European Commission intends to increase it. Therefore, work will have to be done to implement an effective return policy for migrants at the level of the European Union. The new Swedish Presidency says that this is one of its...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u27	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting, but I would almost say that the Chamber is very tumultuous. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. I beg your pardon, sir, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, the generality of these States has already exhausted their capacity to absorb more migrants. We will have to work to significantly reduce that number, but the European Commission intends to increase it. Therefore, work will have to be done to implement an effective return policy for migrants at the level of the European Union. The new Swedish Presidency says that this is one of its priorities and, in this respect, it would be good for us to have all our support.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u30	Then, and with this closely related, the issues of national sovereignty. Member States should be free to decide which type of migrants and how much they can receive. In States such as Poland and Hungary, governments have received a clear mandate from their voters for a cautious migration policy based on border protection and safeguarding national identity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u32	It is essential that this democratic mandate be respected and never punished by the European Union. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The new Italian Government intends to reduce the flow of migrants and, if particularly interesting, the new Swedish Government too, so we hope that the Swedish Presidency will do everything in its power to end the tendency to punish the Member States for doing what their voters are asking them to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u34	Respecting democracy is that! Finally, the ecological transition. The Swedish Presidency affirms that it will have Objective 55, among its priorities, of the Commission, which provides for a drastic reduction in the use of fossil fuels. This programme, besides not being realistic in itself, when combined with the economic recession caused by the energy crisis and the war in Ukraine, will still necessarily lead to a impoverishment of the Member States, and not only should it not be put on the table, as at least for now, should be set aside. What is the Portuguese Government's position on these three issues we are raising here? That was the question I wanted to leave. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u35	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Pessanha, also from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NATO Secretary-General defended last Tuesday at a joint press conference with the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council, which, given the current situation, the partnership with the European Union should move on to the next level. Since we now have a war situation at the borders of the European Union, it is known that several countries consider it necessary that 2% of GDP (gross domestic product) — which so far was an investment target of each country in defence — become the minimum value to be guaranteed by each Member State. What we see is that the Portuguese Government does not show any willingness to converge with this investment in the area of defence, leaving what is planned for 2023 much below that minimum value. In view of this, we ask: is Portugal fulfilling its commitments with its partners in the European Union? Clearly, it is not. Is it with these words that we will equip the Portuguese Armed Forces with the latest-generation weapons? Is it with these funds that we are going to recruit, pay and train the personnel of the Armed Forces in order to have real effective and operational combat? It's not either. We know that the left generally does not like the Armed Forces,... [[L. Protests.]] ... but one thing is not to like for ideological reasons, another is to despise them and leave them at the mercy of a hecatomb who sacrifice the men and women who integrate them, because they are poorly equipped and poorly trained for lack of money — money that the State spends on subsidies for the purchase of votes. A hecatomb of this type has happened once, for similar reasons, on April 9, 1918, in La Lys, in the greatest Portuguese military disaster ever after Alcácer-Quibir. The government that caused this disaster was in history for bad reasons and, of course, this government also wants to remain in history, again for the negative. Let us hope not, and let us not need the blood and life of the Portuguese soldiers to pay the price of the incur and the disqualification of those who send them to die without preparing them for combat. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u37	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: As you know, the Liberal Initiative is deeply Europeanist, defending free market and respect for the rule of law. This is why we tend to agree with the overall priorities of the Swedish Presidency, particularly with regard to the security of the European area, the ecological transition and respect for the rule of law. First of all, it is with great satisfaction that we see that the main priority is unity and security of the European space, with the continuation of support for Ukraine in the face of the Russian invasion and also its course of accession to the European Union. But I would like to point out something that I have also talked about at the hearing that we had, in committee, about the Commission's proposal to move forward with the discussion to eliminate the need for unanimity in some areas, such as the common foreign and security policy, and the decision to be taken by a qualified majority. I should like not only to know the position of the Portuguese Government on this subject, but above all to ask whether the need for unanimity could not give a certain political legitimacy — not legal but political — so that some countries will not then comply with the decisions taken, which may be particularly serious in the case of sanctions. Today, as we know, sanctions on Russian and Iranian regimes have generated a lot of discussion and, unfortunately, I think this could give some legitimacy to those countries. Secondly, in the competitiveness pillar, it is notorious that the European Union has been losing weight, especially at the level of innovation, and not only — in the last 20 years, Europe has lost a lot of weight, for example, in the top 100 of the world's companies. Now, when the United States applied a large package of tax support, not only to its businesses and in which the Asian countries use the State to strongly subsidize their businesses, there are companies on these two continents competing with ours in Europe, but without playing by the same rules, as you know, what the Government thinks the Swedish Presidency can do in this regard, so that we can move on to compete on an equal footing with these countries...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u39	No subsidies!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u40	No subsidies? Thirdly, I conclude by asking what the Government thinks Europe can do to avoid being so dependent on China in terms of raw materials as it is, unfortunately, Russia today in terms of energy. It is that these raw materials are fundamental to the energy and ecological transition we want to make, but we cannot just stay in the hands of China, as many European countries are in the hands of Russia today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u41	It is necessary to invade China, of course! There is no other solution, you have to invade China! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u42	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The programme of the Swedish Presidency of the European Union assumes the continued imposition of the same revenue on European peoples, a political option aligned with the programmes of the previous presidencies. There is still no word, and, above all, there is no answer, regarding the increase in cost of living, to the growing impoverishment of workers, to the deepening of inequalities. In the area of work and workers, the first priority is the directive of asbestos, which, by itself, is already enlightening. As for the rest, between green transitions, REPowerEU and others such, the same script continues in the European Union. A non-surprising but particularly worrying aspect of the Swedish Presidency programme is that of the so-called 'economic governance'. According to the document, it is intended to'address the withdrawal' — i.e. to end it — of suspending the requirement of the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact, once again imposing that regime. These proposals must be firmly rejected for the so-called « reform of economic governance », which in fact had and have one of the ends of the EU's ultra-liberal revenue and draconian rules in the Swedish Government. The PS Government continues here to act as a troika, restricting wages and pensions, cutting off the execution of investment, suffocating public services. The results are in sight: it is a disastrous option for the country, and it is unacceptable to insist on this path of more surveillance and police in Brussels, more fines and sanctions, with more power in the hands of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u45	On the other hand, the Swedish Presidency presents a genuine belligerent manifesto. In the document sent to the Assembly of the Republic, the word « peace » appears twice : the first one, where it is said that « Sweden will work to ensure that human rights, democracy, the rule of law, gender equality, peace and security have an impact on the common EU security and defence policy », a generic proclamation, echoing that « allegory of gardeners », by Josep Borrell ; the second reference is to designate the so-called « European Peace Support Mechanism» and its use. However, this thing called the "European Peace Support Mechanism" is in fact a financial fund outside the European Union budget, worth almost EUR 5, EUR 7 billion, to finance military operations and interventions and the acquisition of arms and war material. In parentheses: Meanwhile, the Portuguese Armed Forces are debated with the lack of means and conditions and, of course, with the lack of respect for the military condition. This is the approach which the European Union and its Swedish Presidency place in relation to peace and on the way to it, a path of more war, more weapons, more death, in which 'diplomacy' is the forbidden word and in which to defend a political solution and appeal to the end of hostilities is to be treated as an agent or supporter of the enemy field.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u46	Get out of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u47	The CFP reaffirms: to insist on this path is to exacerbate even more the tragedy that is being experienced and the terrible consequences of it on the peoples of Ukraine and the other countries of Europe and the world, while the Portuguese people are also suffering and paying the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u48	Get out of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u49	It is increasingly urgent to break these options and to assume, consequently, that in view of this serious situation faced by the peoples of Europe, the European Union and its policies are not part of the solution, are part of the problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u50	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed the Swedish Presidency of the European Union. Now, the Secretary of State has come here to say that he subscribes to the entire Swedish Presidency programme, forgetting the little detail of the Swedish Government being a right-wing government supported by the extreme right. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] We therefore find ourselves in a situation in which we have the government to say that it supports the Swedish Presidency and its programme and that it supports the Swedish policy to reduce the number of immigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u52	O Mariana, it's handling! It's called democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u53	at the same time, we have the Swedish Presidency saying that the environment is very important, when, in its government and in its country, it ended with the Ministry of Climate Protection and incorporated it into a folder called "Climatio e Negócios". [[It's democracy working!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u54	Mr. Secretary of State, you will understand that, with regard to the critical ability of the Portuguese Republic to position in European institutions, we have already begun with some mistrust and with some questions. Mrs. Members, no doubt that the peace and the end of Russia's criminal invasion of Ukraine are essential objectives for the European Union. The question is what the European Union is going to play in this process: if it is going to take the lead in this peace process, being the organizer of a peace conference under the aegis of the United Nations, or will continue to be subject to the interests of the United States of America, the interests of NATO and even — see alone! — the interests of Turkey. This is where Europe is. Sweden is a good example of this because to enter NATO, this Swedish right-wing government agreed to send Kurdish refugees to Erdogan prisons. We know that fundamental rights are of great interest to one side and are of little interest to the other. It happens that the Swedish courts say that they will not extradite the Kurds—there seems to be some responsibility for defending human rights—and Sweden says: "Well, now Turkey decides. And Europe is in this cartoon position, where its presence in the world geopolitical space depends not only on the United States but also on Turkey, which is a country that is far from being a democracy. This was the situation in which Europe was placed and I would like to know what the Portuguese Government's position on this is. On this dual position, I would like to ask another question, because apparently the European Union condemns some invasions, but not others, it welcomes some refugees, but not others. The war in Ukraine has proved that it is possible for Europe to welcome war refugees. So I ask you whether or not there is a change in the way in which war refugees are welcomed. Why are the refugees of war in Ukraine different from those fleeing the war in Somalia or the war in Syria? Why is there two criteria to welcome those who flee the war in search of a stable life, dignity, and finally their survival and the survival of their family? I would also like to ask why Mr. Secretary of State spoke on human rights, which will be the role of the European Union in relation to Israel's far-right government. It is that the Portuguese Government does not assume Palestine as a State — indeed, the President of the Assembly of the Republic had a role in this process — but Sweden did,... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] ... and the new Government of Israel has already said that it will continue the policy of violence, the policy of apartheid, the policy of expansion of the Israeli settlers within the Palestinian territory that Sweden recognizes. I would like to know what the position of Portugal and the European Union will be with regard to the defence of Palestinian law and human rights in Palestine. Finally, because you talked about social rights, I wonder what will happen to the budgetary rules. The new model of economic governance implies more — and I am finishing up, Mr President, without asking me, because I already realized that I have spent my time — the discretion of the European Commission and reform a regime of sanctions which the PS so criticized in the past. We would like to ask how you think this is compatible with more social rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u55	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: One of the issues we would like to begin by mentioning, Mr Secretary of State, is that we have the risk of influence of the extreme anti-European right that supports the Swedish Government in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is something that cannot fail to generate concern and apprehension, at least for the political forces of the democratic spectrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u57	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u58	As far as the priorities for this time are concerned, we see the important commitment to the ecological and energy transition and a future free of fossil fuels as a way to achieve energy security and competitiveness. at this point, one of the main topics is the review of the energy performance directive, which is in progress and is of the greatest importance not only for our country, which, according to some studies, is the country that presents the lowest energy saving values in residential buildings but also for the European Union, which last year spent 4 % of its GDP, i.e. EUR 550 billion on subsidies to help lower the electricity bill, a value that would allow the Union to double renewable energy. Therefore, more than ever, energy efficiency is needed. in this review there are important advances, but in the view of the NAP, it is necessary to go further. We would therefore like to know how Portugal will be positioned on two issues in this area. On the one hand, it is necessary for the directive to impose a requirement for the adoption of solar energy in new buildings or in buildings with large renovation works from its entry into force and to apply this obligation for all existing buildings from 2027 onwards. This is a measure that lowers electricity billing, increases energy security and helps achieve climate goals. On the other hand, it is also necessary for the directive to provide for a carbon accounting instrument throughout the life cycle of buildings, which also accounts for carbon emissions in the production of materials and construction processes, which Sweden, moreover, has legislation, recognises! — pioneering. Will these be the measures by which Portugal will be beaten? We would like to know if they are available to bring these concerns to the debate of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u59	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u60	Mr President, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for European Affairs: we have already heard at some point suggesting that to be deeply European is to be in agreement with everything, it is to go with the current. Then we also heard the suggestion that if we are to be critical of the European Union it must be felt that the European Union is guilty of everything, even as the Swedish electorate votes or as the veto of Mr Erdogan, who does not belong to the European Union. Between one position and the other, it is coming six months, it is going six months, it is coming in presidency and it is coming out, and the European debate here is continuing. [[Protests by CH Member Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.]] Every time a new presidency enters, we are approaching this time in 2024 next year, when the presidency of the European Union will be exercised by a country...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u61	Talk about Hungary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u62	... that the institutions of the European Union — the European Parliament and the European Commission — say that they violate the values of the European Union itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u63	Hungary! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u64	I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how are we going to get out of this. How will the European Council come out of this, when the rule of law and democratic values continue to be a priority — they were already with the Czech Presidency, and they are also with the Swedish Presidency — how could they not cease to be, but the last of the priorities? There is zero novelty: it will continue to work on Article 7. that of the Treaty on European Union, but it will not apply. Well, we have a proposal to get out of this dilemma, with the constitution of what already exists in the Council of Europe, which is the Venice Commission for Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. The proposal would be to make a « Copenhagen Commission » in the European Union, and to do it now so as to be ready in 2024, by calling independent and constitutional experts from the whole Union to be part of it so that this independent committee can guide the European Council which, by the way, cannot find its way in the labyrinth to understand what to do when Member States of the European Union not only violate the values of it, but will also preside over the European Union, what will happen to the next year, and there is no novelty.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u65	Are you going to talk for two minutes?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u66	With the United States, it is not only the anti-inflation law, but it is the so-called « Law Chips », which corresponds to 300 billion intended for semiconductors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u67	Three minutes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u68	Just as the European Union had to change its position when Russia's war on Ukraine began,... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] ...the trade war that the United States started in semiconductors has to take a European response. Portugal should therefore clearly stand in favour of the European common debt issue for semiconductor factories.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u69	How long are you gonna talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u70	Note that even the German Social Democratic Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u71	There's no respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u72	... partner of the government party in Portugal, it is already beginning to be in favour of this, but even Chancellor Scholz is missing. By the way, the Portuguese Government could not arrive after everyone has changed their mind. Thirdly, and this concludes, Mr President: Europe cannot continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u73	Still? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u74	... to be just an abstraction, far away, for the young people who are here, in the galleries. at this time, a great effort is being made in the various Member States to change the buildings where the representations of the European Parliament and the European Commission are, so that they are not just an office where there will be some leaflets and to hear about projects that are far away. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u75	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u76	They build real houses in Europe, where these young people can study, work, live and see that Europe is not only in Brussels,... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] ... but it can also be here, in Lisbon, in Amadora, in Maia or in Ponta Delgada.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u77	Never respect time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u78	Man, calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u79	Allow me to inform those who are most distracted that only one person presides at the session every time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u80	I have this idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u81	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe, Mr Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Capoulas Santos said that in the next half of the year, i.e. in this half of the Swedish Presidency, we will have a number of legislative initiatives — some already in progress and others that will be presented and which are part of the work programme of the European Commission, which we have discussed in this House today — and several of these diplomas discuss essential issues for Portugal. in this sense, Portugal will be very attentive, trying to avenge its positions in very relevant diplomas, such as, for example, the revision of the multiannual financial framework, the reform of the rules of economic governance, which have been mentioned here by several Members. Members, and which are essential for Portugal, or the creation of new own resources. These are dossiers that we will be following very closely, during this semester, in the defence of national interests. There is also a very clear reference, in the priorities of the Swedish Presidency, to something which Portugal also defends, which is a bet on trade policy and on the conclusion and ratification of free trade agreements, which were also mentioned by Mr Paulo Ramalho from the PSD bench. We believe that this is a crucial priority, without a doubt, that Portugal supports, in particular, and in particular, the Mercosur agreement, in which there must be significant progress, but also the other agreements which you have referred to. With regard to Mr. João Paulo Rebelo's intervention, he began to list, and very well, the different responses that the European Union has given to the crises of the past: the mistakes of the European response to the financial crisis of 2008, which we do not want to repeat, and which have led the greatest fragmentation within the European Union, in a logic of each one, and the correct European responses to the economic crisis, which resulted from the pandemic, with truly European and solidarity measures that have been instituted and which have proved to be successful. That is what we need, and therefore we have defended the inclusion, in the negotiating framework of the reform of economic governance, on a definitive basis — as a structural instrument and not only as an ad hoc instrument, made in a hurry, to respond to each crisis — of a mechanism of solidarity, European and countercyclical economic stabilization, which enables us to respond well. The same is said in the reply that the European Union must now give the Inflation Reduction Act, of the United States, to several Members. Members here referred to. It is undoubtedly something that lacks a European response, because it creates an imbalance in the conditions of competition at the global level. right now we are discussing in the European Union what kind of response this should be. It is an ongoing discussion that will be on the agenda of the extraordinary European Council in February and then probably still on March. We are all discussing what kind of instruments and what kind of answers must be these, but it is clear to us that it cannot be answers to leave each Member State on its own, to do what it can, with its budgetary margin, because this would only create greater differentiation and fragmentation in the European area. We must have truly European and solidarity responses. Mr Sousa referred to the recent decision to ban the entry of Romania and Bulgaria into the Schengen area, and I fully agree with what he said and I have to regret that decision. Portugal supported the entry of Romania and Bulgaria into the Schengen area for a very simple reason: these criteria must be objective and there should be no prejudice. Therefore, if the European Commission, in its technical analysis, considers that these two Member States meet the requirements to integrate the Schengen area, this must happen, and we believe that the refusal had no obvious grounds, was an unjustified, unfounded refusal and that we can only regret. With regard to the war in Ukraine, he said that the European Union's response was stronger, more coherent and faster — I fully agree — and he refers to the fears that we all have of some fatigue regarding the impacts that war has had on us all, especially if it is, as expected, a prolonged war in time. In this respect, in spite of everything, there is good news today, I believe: the results of the Eurobarometer show a great adherence by the European Union to the European Union's response, the tough stance on Russia and unconditional support for Ukraine. It is good that Europeans continue to support this which has been the united response of the European Union. Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim had a great advantage in his speech, which I would like to acknowledge: it was very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u83	That's what we always are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u84	It was very clear, of course, how water is about its position on immigration. So I shall be equally clear: my position is radically contrary, it is exactly the opposite, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is all you said, but on the contrary. It's the symmetric. The European Union also needs more labour, it needs immigrant labour. Regardless of this more economic argument, it even needs to have a humanist stance and to welcome these people. [[CH protests.]] That is our position on immigration, and that is the position we stand for in the European bodies — the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, in particular, who has this file, when she is representing Portugal in the Council of the European Union — and therefore there is a sea that happily separates us from the positions on this matter. [[CH protests.]] The same applies to the energy and ecological transition: Mr President, this is something that must be put aside. Yeah, look, we're also right there on the opposite poles of the bench. It has become clear what the honourable Member has defended here, I stand up for exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u85	Democracy is that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u86	Mr Pessanha referred to the investment in defence and, as you know, even better than I do, there is a multi-annual route already defined to reach the 2 % threshold. Therefore, the investment is ongoing, it is planned and does not happen one day to the other, it is multi-annual, it has a sequence. There have been significant increases in defence investment and we will arrive there, according to what is planned. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Then he says something very strange, says the left doesn't like the Armed Forces. Mr. Member, I don't intend to speak all over the left, but I have a lot of respect for the Armed Forces...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u87	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u88	... and I say to you, in particular, that I have great respect for the historic role that the Armed Forces have had in this country to end the New State and to bring freedom and democracy back to this country. I have great respect for the historic role of the Armed Forces in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Bernardo Blanco referred to the question of unanimity in the field of foreign policy. Finally, it would take more time to expose the Portuguese position, but Portugal defends the evolution and use of key clauses to move from the unanimity rule to a qualified majority rule in various areas of European Union intervention, but not with regard to foreign policy. As far as foreign policy is concerned — because of the kind of sovereignty issues that are very sensitive, which are at stake — we believe that the rule of unanimity should be maintained. As for the consequences of the Inflation Reduction Act, I already referred to them. As for the dependence on critical raw materials from other sources, such as China and others, it is undoubtedly a concern within the broader debate that we need to have on the strategic autonomy of the European Union. We therefore look forward to the proposals which the European Commission will present very soon, in this quarter, for a law on critical raw materials, ensuring better access conditions for the European Union — its businesses and its economy — to raw materials which are essential, in particular for energy transition and for digital transition. As for Mr Bruno Dias, very quickly, I believe that we always have a very manicated debate in which the European Union is either very good or very bad, and it is to blame for everything, and that all the reasons for our discontent remain in the European Union. I think we should avoid the public debate because they don't take us anywhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u89	Then do as we do!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u90	The honourable Member said that there is no response to poverty, that there is no response to the deepening of inequalities, but we argue that there must be a very large approach at European level on the social rights agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u91	Does the Swedish Presidency have an answer or not? I didn't get it...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u92	... in the European Pillar of Social Rights, and we want, in fact, on our initiative — since the Swedish Presidency has no initiatives in this area — to organize a summit in Porto in May to keep this issue on the agenda, which we believe is very important. Then, Mr. Deputy says something extraordinary, he says that the PS is still doing the troika times here. Mr President, I certainly do not need to remind you of the way we have taken together, to turn the page of austerity and to fight the troika, to increase pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u93	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u94	... to increase social support, to significantly increase national minimum wage, to reduce taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, we have made a very important point of recalling that we should turn completely to the page for what was the period of the troika. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I think you are wrong about the subject of the debate. This was not a debate on the Swedish Government's programme, this was a debate on the priorities of the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u95	But isn't the government presiding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u96	I have not mentioned here, nor will I mention — until it makes no sense to be discussing this — the priorities of the Swedish Government, the Swedish Government's organic or Swedish immigration policy. On the other hand, on this point, I have already made clear the position of this government. So what I referred to was the Swedish programme for its Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and that is what we are discussing here. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u97	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u98	Mr. President, I will be finished by now. With regard to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real's intervention, I would like to say that energy efficiency is certainly a priority, and we will certainly follow the ambitious positions that are under negotiation in the context of the revision of the directive on energy performance of buildings as well as other matters. On the other hand, in terms of energy efficiency, the cleanest energy is the one that saves itself. As far as Mr Rui Tavares is concerned, there are undoubtedly major challenges in the rule of law, but I do not believe that it can be said, as Mr Rui Tavares said here, that there were zero developments in the rule of law. In fact, 2022 is marked by very significant advances, either in relation to Poland or in relation to Hungary. Still this week, with regard to Poland, we had the approval in Parliament of a significant change in the structure of its judicial system. In Hungary, there have also been advances in some areas, not all of them, it is true.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u99	What about immigration? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u100	It cannot be said that things are stopped, that they are not walking and that there have been no progress and developments in the right way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u101	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u102	Luckily, 2022 was marked by that. I even finish because I have already answered the IRA issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u103	We have thus concluded the first item on the agenda and we say goodbye to the members of the Government present. We have moved on to the second point, the general assessment of a set of diplomas which I think I can define synthetically as deburocratization and simplification. The following draft laws form part of this set: No. 400 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to lay down the indication of applicable collective labour regulation instrument, amending the Labour Code; No. 401 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the counter-ordination by not holding three copies for the documentation of the carriage of goods; No. 402 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to impose information on the right of parenthood legislation by amending the Labour Code; No. 404 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Elimination of the obligation of mere prior communication must be instructed with the urban title ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015, which, in use of the legislative authorisation granted by Law No 29 / 2014 of 19 May, approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of various trade, services and restoration activities and establishes the respective counter-ordering regime ) ; No. 406 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the obligation of artificial tanning centres to affix the diplomas or certificates of competence of technical personnel ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015, which, in use of the legislative authorisation granted by Law No 29 / 2014 of 19 May, approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of various trade, services and restoration activities and establishes the respective counter-ordering regime ) ; No 407 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Extends the requirement for the prior communication to the IPDJ of holiday fields ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 32 / 2011 of 7 March establishing the legal regime for the access and exercise of the activity of organization of holiday camps) ; No. 408 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of the value of fines by economic counter-ordination and creation of very slight counter-ordination ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 9 / 2021 of 29 January ) No 409 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the obligation to attach information on the existence of permanent jobs available in the undertaking or establishment, amending the Labour Code; No. 410 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — eliminates the obligation to state ‘Call for the national fixed network’ and ‘Call for the national mobile network’ on telephone lines for contact with the consumer ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 59 / 2021 of 14 July ) ; No. 411 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies the procedure for renewing the driving licence ( seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 138 / 2012 of 5 July ) ; No. 403 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies the indication of tobacco consumption in closed enclosures for collective use ( fourth amendment to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August adopting rules for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to dependence and cessation of consumption) ; No. 425 / XV / 1. a (IL) — eliminates the fine by the circumstances of the person holding or holding a pet within 120 days of his/her birth ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 82 / 2019 of 27 June establishing the rules for the identification of pet animals, creating the pet information system); No. 426 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Elimination of the limitation to the value of the budget ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January, which, in use of the legislative authorisation granted by Law No 29 / 2014 of 19 May, approves the arrangements for access and pursuit of various trade, services and restoration activities and establishes the respective counter-ordering regime ) ; No. 427 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Change the value of the fines applicable for counter-orders related to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ( Ninth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the Sanctionary Regime applicable to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ) ; No. 432 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthen citizens' guarantees in the process of revalidation of driving letters, amending Decree-Law No 138/2012 of 5 July and the Road Code; No. 433 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the right of parenthood by amending the Labour Code and the General Labour Law in Public Functions; No. 434 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — transparency mechanisms are established in respect of rates charged at the state level and local authorities, and ensures the independent technical assessment of counterparties associated with the collection of each of the rates existing at the state level; No. 435 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 9 / 2021 of 29 January ( Approves the Legal Regime of Economic Controls ), densifying the arrangements for the collection of evidence ; No. 441 / XV / 1. a (L) — prohibits the activation or collection of unsolicited or authorized services; No 442 / XV / 1. a (L) — Introduction of transparency and reliable information in price information; No 443 / XV / 1. a (L) — Introducing measures promoting transparency in pre-contractual information on distance marketing of financial services; No. 444 / XV / 1. a (L) — Strengthen consumer rights by prohibiting forced renewal of services or equipment whose useful life has not yet expired; No. 445 / XV / 1. a (L) — Ensures the accessibility of workers to legally required information on harassment at work, parental rights and the existence of permanent jobs; No. 446 / XV / 1. a (L) — Strengthen consumer rights, ensuring that consumers are not obliged to acquire more services or goods than those they need; No. 449 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Set amnesty by default of payment of toll rates; and No 450 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter jurisdiction for the investigation of cases relating to non-payment of toll rates ( tenth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the Sanctionary Scheme applicable to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ). To present the IL diplomas, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u104	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u105	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u106	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u107	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u108	Mr President, this is a very quick question. When this initiative was presented, even with a political declaration, it was not well in terms that Mr President now used, but was well known as the « bide initiative ». Now, that initiative itself fell. I was even thinking it was now that Portugal was finally going to crumble from bides, but I would like to understand why the Liberal Initiative gave up this same initiative. If we can be clear on this, thank you. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u109	Is that an inquiry or an intervention? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u110	If you want to ask questions, you do it outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u111	I ask Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto to be patient and to wait a little while, because there is another request for an appeal to the Bureau, now from your bench, so I will gladly give the floor to Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u112	Mr President, for the good conduct of the work, I would ask you to inform the plenary that there are people who should not have some early attitudes, because the debates usually serve to explain what will happen. Therefore, weaving considerations before hearing the proposer, which is what is going to happen at the moment, seems to me - extemporaneous. [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u113	If you had arrived in time, you would have understood!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u114	The curiosity is out there, in the corridors and in the coffee!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u115	Extemporaneousness, in addition to the excessive use of time, does not contribute to the good conduct of the works, for which we should all be able to contribute. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen carefully to the presentation of the initiatives. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, be very welcome to the first of many discussions on deburocratization. There's a lot of work to do and everything will be planned in time. [[Applause from the IL.]] in this House there are different conceptions about the weight that the state should have in the lives of people, but it is not necessary to be liberal to know that there is too much bureaucracy in our country. Many of the proposals we have brought today are aimed at eliminating obligations that, I believe, many Members in this House did not know they existed and would not fall into the ridicule of them if they did not exist. Who in the 21st century was exposed to the ridicule of defending the obligation of information paper affixing which could easily be made available in other ways or the obligation of irrelevant prior communications that are no longer than the roles of walking from one side to the other without any practical objective? These and other ridiculous obligations, which almost no one would defend if they were not already, continue to exist in the law, are monitored and therefore generate fines and non-compliance costs. They are laws that do not protect workers who do not defend consumers who do not help businesses. They serve only the « finer » state. Many of these laws, I believe, were introduced only by neglect or excessive zeal and maintained only by inertia. Today we are here to fight this inertia. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u118	Recently, in the midst of the transposition of a European directive, a law has been passed which obliges all businesses in the country to indicate in writing—on websites, invoices, posters—if their contact number is a mobile or fixed network. in a country where everyone knows that a number starting with 2 is a fixed network and by 9 is a mobile network, there are companies to be fined in thousands of euros for not putting this indication in writing next to the telephone number. Note: we are not talking about putting the cost indication on calls for value added numbers, which are, in fact, prohibited as contact lines to the consumer. That's not what we're talking about. And, yes, this obligation is as ridiculous as it seems. Finally, we have one of the greatest shames in this country, which has already ruined the lives of thousands of families: the astronomical sanctions for late payment of tolls. It is sufficient for a delay, a change of address or an error in the system so that tolls of some tens of euros become debts of thousands of euros to the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ), in penhoras of houses and wages, in order to prevent the return of property on its behalf. A toll of 1 € can become a tax debt of almost 200 €. Many small passages of 1 €, in a few days, have the potential to ruin lives and destroy families. I received dozens of testimonies from desperate people with their lives destroyed. We are not talking about people who have stolen or corrupted, but about people who have not paid a few euros on tolls. I ask you to stop a few seconds thinking about ruining someone's life seems to you a proportional punishment for an involuntary delay in the payment of tolls. This is what's happening now. [[Applause from the IL.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an ideological issue or, I believe, a party. We will approve everything proposed by any party to put an end to this nightmare, because more than withdrawing political credits or raising more votes, it is urgent to resolve this matter to return life to these people and not ruin the life of anyone else. I end as I began: in this House we have different conceptions about the weight that the State has in the lives of people, but none of these conceptions defends that the State has the ability to ruin lives and businesses by irrelevant ninarias. I'm counting on everyone to end these situations. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u119	Mr President, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification. Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I would like to make this request for clarification to try to understand the scope of the Liberal Initiative, even because by the words of the honourable Member, « this is the first of many ». It can be seen that, in fact, there is an intention to disburse, however, this "legislative package", if I may say so, is quite wide and goes from work to the tolls and various other issues. Therefore, of the two, one : or there is a sectorial focus or then there will come several casts of proposals, to be discussed differently. As you said, well, the country needs to move in this area, the country needs reforms, but the Socialist Party does not do any reform at all. [[PS protests.]] What the Socialist Party does most is try to promote things exactly as they are, to be exactly the same. [[PSD applause.]] Attention, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the former Secretary of State Alexandra Reis does not count, although very large. We're talking about the country's reforms. [[PSD laughter.]] The question, Mr President, is whether we are discussing a mini-reform and then several other projects that the Liberal Initiative will present, or whether we are actually putting a single legislative package on the table. There is a great, correct and appropriate urge on the part of the Portuguese to make the state work better and to stop stealing every day value, value that represents money, wages and time. This is perceived in perfection. However, as you will know, this has to do with not only ideology but also methodology. What is the methodology of the Liberal Initiative? Is it only to present this package, which goes from work to the tolls and other materials, or several other legislative packages? We need to clarify this so that the debate can be done with the seriousness and impartiality that you yourself have asked for. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u121	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your explanation I understand that the only problem you have is formal and we can discuss it later. If you do not have specific questions, I am very pleased because, in fact, the proposals we bring today are solving people's problems, some of them quite urgent, and I am sure that if we approve our bill tomorrow on tolls, for example, this will relieve many people's lives and businesses, regardless of the proposal coming into a package or not. And I'm counting on you for that. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u123	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of trying to bring here a reform or a package of legislative reforms, in some way simple, sanitary or with the famous « bide policy », and of putting everything in the same bag is that something will go wrong. I would like to bring to the conclusion one of the proposals of the Liberal Initiative, in particular the one which aims to eliminate, from a counter-ordinary point of view, the fines applied to those who do not comply with the obligation to register a pet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u125	Drag things that have nothing to do with these materials!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u126	There is, however, no goodness in this proposal, indeed, a name for this proposal: irresponsibility and ignorance of the harsh reality that exists in this country, regarding the abandonment of pets. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative have proposed this revocation, saying, and I quote: "The Liberal Initiative considers that the values practised for this fine far exceed what is reasonable for any kind of damage that may be caused by the absence of registration of animals. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, the absence of registration of animals has consequences in our country, with more than 43 000 animals being abandoned. They're more than 119 abandoned animals per day! There is also a consequence of tax evasion, as well as of barred canes, unregistered creators, among many other things that could be said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u127	And the abandonment of the elderly?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u128	Now, this very diploma that you want to change now has a rule that provides for: animals adopted in municipal canies, animals adopted in associations are exempt from payment of fines. In the case of animals whose license is made and the holder has a socio-economic deficiency, there is also an exemption. Therefore, we cannot understand the legislative momentum of the Liberal Initiative with this initiative. But since this damage has several names, starting with abandonment and animal abuse, I clearly believe it has been a lapse that will be in time to correct. As regards the proposals which the NAP brings here, they mean simplifying the obligation to give an opinion of the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment) whenever there is dismissal or no renewal of a pregnancy contract, puerpera or lactant, a simplex for the defence of taxpayers and citizens with a driving licence. In the field of expertise we are fully available to work on these various initiatives aimed at simplifying people's lives. What can't be done is, the tow of a simplex, to run over other values, which are also relevant in our legal order, which are moving back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u129	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it seems important to me to make a previous statement to this debate. To discuss 26 bills that, in turn, alter several laws on such different topics as Labour Code, driving license, pets, tolls, etc. , all this in less than an hour, in addition to unrealistic, seems to us a huge devaluation of the importance of each of these issues. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u131	That's why he added another one. Instead of 25, they stayed 26!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u132	It is certainly not in this way that we approach the citizens of politics and that we contribute to an informed discussion. In any case, let's go to the debate. The legislative initiative we are bringing here today is aimed at improving the legal regime for economic counter-ordinations ( ERM ), in order to give the monitoring authorities of the various economic activities the means necessary for effective control. It's not worth giving up our skills if we don't give the means. For example, it is found that, although the CERR has been created to apply to hundreds of different counter-ordinations, there is no rule on the conduct of magazines to suspects, which are one of the most common means of obtaining evidence and which lead to the seizure of objects related to the practice of the infringement. The same can be said of home searches, which, although already provided for in the ECJ, see the regime of their performance developed and improved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this initiative, the ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) and the other administrative authorities, which are responsible for monitoring the activity, the lifting of news cars and the training of economic counter-ordination processes, will be properly equipped to carry out their mission more effectively. But there is also the other side of the coin, which is linked to bureaucracy which may be associated with meaningless rules. It is necessary to harmonise compliance with the rules and their supervision with less bureaucracy, in most cases unnecessary and pointed out as hampering the greater competitiveness of our economy. If it is essential to have predictability in the rules and effective monitoring of their compliance, it is also essential to free companies and citizens from absurd demands, which only serve to create entropies and dynamism to society. The bureaucracy is a barrier to innovation, investment, job creation and growth in our economy and opens the door to facilitators who are always ready to corrupt the system. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we already know that the Socialist Party, whenever it can, will look for more changes to the taxpayers' purse to feed the state machine and that it is in the genesis of socialism to have an increasing control over the state so that it can then control people. It is up to us not to allow this control and to release the society of that juice and the bureaucracy that suffocates it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u133	To present the Bill No. 441 / XV / 1. a ( L) — prohibits the activation or collection of unsolicited or authorized services, 442 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Introduction of transparency and reliable information in price information, 443 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Introducing measures promoting transparency in pre-contractual information on distance marketing of financial services, 444 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Strengthen the rights of consumers, and safeguard the forced renewal of services or equipment whose useful life has not yet expired, 445 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Ensures the accessibility of workers to legally required information on harassment at work, parental rights and the existence of permanent jobs, and 446 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Strengthen consumer rights, ensuring that the consumer is not obliged to acquire more services or goods than those he needs, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u134	Mr President: Simplifying people's lives does not mean entering into a sterile fight between those who defend the market against the State or the State against the market. Simplifying people's lives means being on people's side on many occasions when, both in the state and in the market, useless demands arise or ways to charge people more money than those they would need to pay. It was therefore important to see, in a debate on an initiative that was first presented from the pulpit by Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, as directed in relation to the state — and presented for weeks as the "Bidex", the simplex of the bide — because, after all, this demagogic bravery has not come to materialize itself. [[CH protests.]] In other words, it was important to know why an initiative had to be withdrawn before the debate arrived. The way the Free is in this debate is not fighting instead of the state or instead of the market, it is on the people's side.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u135	It's on the wall!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u136	So we are presenting a number of initiatives that I would like to know if, for example, the Liberal Initiative accompanies. All of us, who have to have at home internet or television, data package, are obliged to pay even fixed phone. How many of us here have or use a fixed phone at home, but pay? An initiative of the Free is intended to ensure that this service cannot be charged if it is not used. Often, when we go to an internet site to buy an airplane ticket or a show, it is - we are told that the price is x, but then there is the cash rate, the booking fee, a series of fees that are not imposed by the state, but that come by the gain of the private operator, who hid them. It's only when we've clicked a number of times and put the credit card number that we see paying more than we thought. An initiative of the Free is intended to make it visible, from the beginning of this process, what we will spend. And that's where we could go. For example, private operators require us to replace equipment that is not at the end of their working life or to replace the batteries of such equipment that are not exhausted. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] Here, with these proposals, you see a water separator. Who is in favour of simplifying the lives of people in relation to the state, whether in relation to the market? Or who simply presents an ideological crusade, because he thinks that the state does everything wrong and that the market always does well? [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u137	To submit Law Nos 449 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Set amnesty by default of payment of toll rates and 450 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the competence to instruct proceedings relating to the non-payment of toll rates ( tenth amendment of Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the Sanctionary Scheme applicable to infringements in respect of road infrastructure where it is due to the payment of toll rates ), has the word... [[CH protests and L-protests.]] [[Pause.]] Reminding everyone that we are here working on a work of the noblest who exist, I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two absurdities in the law regarding tolls. The first is to be charged in ways essential to territorial cohesion, where there are no viable and safe alternatives, as is the case with the Via do Infante, in the Algarve. The second absurdity is that this collection is made by the Tax Authority on behalf of and for the benefit of the private concessionaires of the motorways. That is, we have public resources affecting the Tax Authority that are being wasted on behalf of a private charge and in an absolutely disproportionate way. Fair enough, ladies. Members, that a toll of 0, 50 € ends up in a fine of 25 €, 50 times more, to which are still added costs and interest? Is it reasonable that the debts generated in this way exceed the value of the toll by 3000 %, giving rise to the burden of goods? Is it acceptable for someone in this country to go into insolvency, because he has a debt of cents because of a toll on any road in Portugal? On top of this absurdity, every lack of payment, i.e. every passing portico, gives rise to independent processes with own fines and executions and, as if this were not enough, citizens are still faced with delays in reporting debts, which only reach the stage of fiscal execution. If a citizen wants to challenge the debt at that time, he will still have to pay a fee of €306. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these delays are no coincidence. It is that the State has given privates the right to retain the value of the tolls charged by the AT, but also with the value of interest, costs and part of the fines. In other words, it is an unfair, violent, disproportionate law and I do not believe that a single Member or a single Member of Parliament will stand up to support this rule. The Left Block Parliamentary Group certainly does not defend it. The Liberal Initiative proposes here to reduce the fines. We have nothing against this proposal, but we want to go further. We want to remove, once and for all, the collection of tolls from the tax authority's sphere and we want another proposal to tax the victims of this unjust regime. People who today have tax debts, which today are penalized, executed by minimum toll debts must be amnesty, because they were victims of an abusive, disproportionate, violent and unjust regime. We know that it would be fair to end the SCUTs (without cost for the user) which call into question territorial cohesion and are a tax on the populations of these territories. However, with or without SCUT, it is incomprehensible that the Tax Authority should place itself in the position of being the "weak collector" of private dealers in front of a country that impoverishs every day in sight. We can only wait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let these two initiatives be approved tomorrow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u139	To speak in the debate, you now have the floor of Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a collection of legislative projects by the Liberal, Free and the Left Block, which affect several areas of economic activity but, essentially and generally, cover two broad lines of action. On the one hand, they deal with the proportionality and the principle of the adequacy of the existing rules and their respective counter-ordering regime and, on the other hand, with the problem of consumer rights and protection. The Socialist Party is proud of one of its guiding principles being focused precisely on the protection and protection of consumers, and has not only continued at the legislative level, as it was last week when it adopted a further transposition of a directive from the European Commission in this area, but also through the provision of a network of very relevant entities in this area, such as the Consumer Directorate-General and regulatory and supervisory bodies, as well as in the area of conflict resolution, with arbitration centres. in this context, I also recall the creation of the Consumer Autarchic Information Centres, local authorities' own-initiative structures with the support of the Consumer Directorate-General, which provide free information and clarification to the municipalities on all consumer issues, as well as promote mediation of conflicts between consumers and economic agents. The transparency, trust and reliability of the information provided to the consumer and the adjusted moderation of burdens imposed, in particular of a sanctioning nature, are principles that guide the activity of the Socialist Party and of this Government in the path of a society of balances and a system of proportional relations of all the interests concerned. These balances should be continuously pursued and reflected in the various regulations governing economic activity, always seeking the greatest and fairest distribution between the demands of them, gains for society and the economy, but also the need and relative weight of sanctions of a counter-ordinary nature that are inherent to them. Thus, the position of the Socialist Party in these matters will be guided by the fundamental principles of the legal-administrative activity of economic charity in search of a virtuous balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u141	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The data released today in the so-called Eurobarometer on the main concerns of the citizens of our country and of the other Member States of the European Union are enlightening data that confirm the evidence of the CFP alerts. The most pressing concern for 98% of Portuguese people is the increase in cost of living; the second concern for 95% of Portuguese people is the threat of poverty and social exclusion. The CFP's response to Portuguese concerns at today's plenary session was to schedule its draft law on the system of essential food prices, which is the following point on the agenda; the IL's response to the concerns of Portuguese in today's plenary session was to schedule bills on the affixation of diplomas in the centers of artificial tanning, the marking on tobacco consumption or the triple issue of transport guides. This is because, in the meantime, the IL has withdrawn its legislative diploma from the agenda on the optional nature of bidders. It is true that this agenda item will not really be a point, but rather a blanket of clippings, made of tanning centers and holiday camps, parental rights and urban titles, price information and driving letters, harassment at work and collection of tolls. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has 5 and a half minutes to intervene in this debate and these 5 and a half minutes are not enough—we have already experienced! — to refer to the 26 bills that are under consideration at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u143	It's an exaggeration, one minute is coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u144	When, in the legislative process, legislative initiatives cease to be the centre of the debate and become used as a means of making the scene tasteless, it is the political debate that deteriorates, it is the Assembly of the Republic that discredits itself, it is the democracy that is losing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u146	I was just talking about the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u147	And it's not a formal problem, sirs. Members, because the seriousness of political and legislative debate is a substantial issue. On the other hand, in the midst of this bulk of bills, there are subjects that should not be without reference, from the point of view of the seriousness and the injustice of the situations that already occur in reality and in the daily life of the Portuguese people or, even worse, because of the seriousness or injustice of some of the measures advocated in this debate. We highlight the theme of the collection of tolls and the tax nature of the transgressions that occurred in toll payments. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] From the outset, we have been directly opposed by the CFP against the decision of successive governments to place the Tax and Customs Authority acting as a collector on behalf of private dealers. It is an aberrant injustice, which makes it difficult and chaotic, often, the lives of AT workers and judicial officials themselves and that makes in hell the lives of users and populations, confronted, from the very outset, with the unacceptable injustice that was the imposition of tolls in the former SCUTs or even with the exorbitant increase in the prices of tolls, articulated and negotiated between the government and the dealers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u148	What about the budgets you approved?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u149	For the record, the proposal of the CFP in this matter is Bill No. 463 / XV / 1. the, which eliminates the tax nature of these transgressions and which removes the AT from this process, where, in fact, should never have been placed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u151	In any case, we believe that the debate is a long way off. over the years and the legislatures, the CFP has been presenting its proposals and, once again, brings the bill that it has already delivered to the Assembly of the Republic on this matter. The debate comes by far, it will certainly continue and here will be the CFP with its proposal and its alternatives to this situation. We still want to mention the legal regime of economic counter-ordinations. Already last week, the CFP warned this temptation, either from the Government or from the right, to reduce sanctions, fines on economic groups due to infringements of consumer law. The IL, today, comes to bring this figure of very light counter-ordinations. Perhaps at the next Legislative Session you will bring the cute counter-ordinations—you will soon see yourself! However, what we are talking about is the need to enforce the rights of consumers and also the rights of workers, with regard to the obligation to provide and advertise relevant information, both on the nature of the employment contract and on the rights of workers. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] These matters, of course, cannot be mixed up in this supposed idea of combating bureaucracy, because often comes counterfeit material and we cannot help but point out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u152	The counterfeiting material comes from China! That's what you are, counterfeiting of the Chinese Communist Party, and the worst there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u153	The Bureau records the entry of a Member to make a request for clarification to Mr Bruno Dias, who has no time to answer. Therefore, I ask whether the author, or author, of the request for clarification still wishes to maintain his request.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u154	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u155	That's what he wanted, that I didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u156	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to you and, at some point, in your speech, I have heard an appreciable defence of the affixing of information on legislation, which it considers essential for the good working environment. Confession: in addition to Members, we are colleagues
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u158	Working colleagues? No, we're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u159	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u160	...and I've been here for a few months, so I ask you if you could explain something very simple—until you can answer it from there! — what is the following: where are these diplomas that you value so much in the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u161	I don't have time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u162	I know you don't have time, but tell me where they're posted. [[Pause.]] You don't know, do you? Does anyone in this House know where these diplomas are affixed whose paper affixing is so important? [[Pause.]] Don't you? The case is closed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u163	The Bureau noted the inclusion of an application to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings by Mr Bruno Dias, who used to be very fulfilling. Let's see if it's not gonna ruin a solid resume. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u164	Mr President, I'm not sure, but I don't think I heard him well... I didn't understand if IL gave us time to answer or if he's afraid of the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u165	It's a short answer! You can answer that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u166	IL didn't give up time, did it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u167	No, the Bureau did not have that information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u168	The answer is short, answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u169	Come as long as the answer comes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u170	You don't know! If you know, tell me where he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u171	We continue with the speech of Mrs Ana Paula Bernardo of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the framework of this series of initiatives, some work has actually been presented. We are in a context of change, with new realities in the world of work, in particular new forms of communication between companies, workers and the representative structures of workers, and it is certain that legislation must also fit the new contexts. This has been done, over the years, by the Socialist Government and continues to be done, while we are talking in this Chamber. However, when discussing the availability and access to employment information, it is important to have, of course, that these new realities are not identical or widespread to all workers, to all companies and to all working contexts. There is something that is clear: solutions cannot go through automatic replacement of an employer's obligation to attach information on rights — important rights such as collective bargaining, equality, parenthood — by a simple, and sometimes apparent, strengthening of information to workers individually, especially if this is associated with higher levels of discretion for employers, as is the case in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u173	Where are they posted? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u174	The PS will never cease and will never cease to modernize, deburocratize and reduce the costs of context, when it has fair and balanced results.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u175	No one knows where he's posted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u176	But what is at stake is to ensure that all workers are aware of their rights and also to ensure the conditions for effective intervention of inspection services, ensuring the effectiveness of legal regimes and conventional regimes. The proposals under discussion do not seem to guarantee these principles, on the contrary, weaken legal security and certainty in the protection of workers. And when it comes to workers, the Socialist Party even talks about workers and not about collaborators, in a so-called modern, but distorted nomenclature, which some intend to bring about with the initiatives presented. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also, of course, question the opportunity of this discussion. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We consider it to be -extemporaneous, to the extent that it should have been associated with the discussion, in particular, of the Government's proposed law, in terms of the dignified work agenda, which is under way and which introduces amendments to the Labour Code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u178	... a discussion in which all parliamentary groups had the opportunity to participate and for which, in a timely manner, they could all have submitted their proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The draft law of the Government, which is under discussion in the specialty, as I said, will contribute decisively to the dignity of work and is a diploma in which the effectiveness of the information rights of workers and their representatives or, moreover, the strengthening of the rights of reconciliation and kinship are already a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u179	I now give the floor to Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have listened carefully to the Member of the Socialist Party to mention the key words in what is the development of our economy — « cost of context ». Mrs Deputy, this Government, the former and the Socialist Party did nothing to reduce the costs of context in justice, licensing, taxation. Absolutely nothing! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u182	As a result of the Dignified Work Agenda, this job reform that you are doing will only mean more bureaucracy and increased cost of context. If you have data or forecasts that say otherwise, then I dare you to come and introduce them, because, so far, the only thing you realize is that the Socialist Party has no position. Just and so alone! But there is a fundamental fact about this simplification process. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, simplifying is good, but let's imagine that we have a car and we want it to be faster: let's put light alloy dinners on it, let's simplify the engine, but we can't take parts to the car, otherwise, then it starts to go wrong. And there are subjects in which you are taking rights — this is taking pieces! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u183	For example, you have addressed the issue of parenthood, in the form of caricature, but that is to focus on where it matters. What matters is that it is difficult to access this right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u184	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u185	...is not discussing the affixation. We're discussing the accessory, not the main one. That, in fact, is discussing the bide instead of arguing that there are people who don't have a house. Mr President, this is a bad way to address the debate. You have here an approach that is not a liberal initiative, it is a liberal impulse. And that's a very different thing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u186	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards a legislative initiative of the IL, under the pretext of administrative simplification, we have a panel of bills that, to be approved, would probably dictate the disarticulation of the State, leaving it completely impoverished of resources and disorganized as regards the operation. [[IL Member's laughter João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] When I say « State » I mean both the central administration, the local administration and the business sector of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u189	In view of the initiatives put forward by various parties, there are two transversal assumptions. The first assumption is that the State's activity is guided by the lack of transparency. It's all opaque, it's all doubtful and everything needs to be clarified. The second assumption is that the State, in the broad sense, as I have already said, charges too much. It collects more fees, collects excess fines and counter-orders, either in quantity or in value, finally, there are more obligations for the citizens. We know that, on the right hand, it is argued that the least state is better and that what would be good was that the self-regulated market should take account of the economy and the redistribution of wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u190	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u191	Similarly, we know that, on the left, we defend the statization of all the activity and that the ideal would be to have a state that gives everything to everyone, to the exact extent of each one's needs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, history has already presented us, several times and in various geography, with catastrophic examples, both of them and of another model. Moreover, in its overwhelming majority, the Portuguese are not followers of a right of deregulation nor of a left statist and collectivist, which is why they gave the majority to the Socialist Party. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u192	The PS defends a regulatory state that guarantees the vital functions of a prosperous society, which ensures the well-being of its citizens, as well as freedoms and guarantees, social justice, solidarity, innovation and progress. The PS defends a State that ensures infrastructure, goods and services of general interest. It's never all done, obviously, and it's never finished. Public service is a mission, and to govern is to be in constant challenge to improve and qualify the lives of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u194	But for us, the State is the guarantor of the attenuation of inequalities and asymmetries and the guarantee of the redistribution of wealth. That's how we want him to go on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u195	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u196	Mr President, dear colleagues : As has already been mentioned, well, we have a package here, between quotes, with more than two dozen subjects and, as it is impossible to address them all, I will report to three. The first issue relates to the proposal by the Liberal Initiative concerning fines for economic counter-ordination and the creation of a new counter-ordination step. If the proposal is approved, the PSD believes that it is possible to obtain a consensus in the course of the discussion in the specialty. The second point that I will also address, with regard to the proposal by the IL, is the reference to the amendment of the Sanctionary Regime applicable to the breaches of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates is due. On this point, the PSD understands the following: we agree with the fundamental question, which we subscribe to, but in the PSD's view there is a kind of pendulum movement in which we run the risk of passing from an exaggeration to another opposite signal exaggeration. In any case, on the matter of substance, we agree. Finally, the third issue I wanted to address has to do with the proposal by the Left Block, with reference to a general amnesty, the sauce, for failure to comply with the payment of toll rates. Here, there is an unsanitary difference between the PSD and the one defended by the Left Block. If I had brought a hat - and I regret not having brought it - I would now take the hat to the illustrious colleague for whom I think Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Why? Because he achieved an amazing fact: almost everything I said I would subscribe. The problem is he talked about the sample and he didn't talk about the tissue! [[PSD laughter and applause.]] I'll try to explain better what I mean. What is at stake in this proposal is that BE is against payment, pure and hard, without more, of all tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u197	That's not what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u198	This is where the difference is.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u199	But that's not what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u200	What's going on? As far as the proposal is concerned, there is a part that you, I very much appreciate, did not mention. In other words, the PSD understands that the tolls are necessary and useful, what needs to be positive discrimination, which, in fact, the PSD defends and has always defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u202	When these discriminations are justified, to come to speak in a pure and harsh abolition of all tolls, for us, it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u203	The project doesn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u204	To finish, I want to leave only two brief notes. It would be very unfair, even incomprehensible, for all users who have complied and complied with the law, who have paid and paid the tolls to be now approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u205	On the contrary, they would be grateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u206	Finally, cumulatively, it would also be very unfair, even in a higher threshold, that we would give a sign for the future of « do not pay, do not comply, because an amnesty must come and, therefore, if they pay, they are doing wrong and will be desolate because they have done it». So this is what is at stake, this is what the PSD understands about this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u207	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing 26 diplomas in a short time and nothing better to do this debate than to help us with popular wisdom. The best phrase of popular wisdom for this debate is this: « a lot of raisins and little grapes». What is happening in this debate is 'a lot of sheep and a little grape'.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u210	If we continue to use popular wisdom to analyze each of the projects, we will see that it continues to be very useful. As regards the Bill No 403 / XV / 1. on the withdrawal of the 'banned smoking' plates and fines in the space where smoking is strictly prohibited, what I think is that the Liberal Initiative is not against the plates nor against the fines, it is against the restriction of individual freedom, but, as it does not have the courage to assume that it is against the restriction of individual freedom of smoking, it presents this proposal for the withdrawal of the plates and indications of the fines in the areas where smoking is prohibited. To this the people call, in popular wisdom, « cat hidden with the tail outside». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u211	Continuing popular wisdom to help us analyze these initiatives, we passed on to Bill No. 406 / XV / 1. the, in which the Liberal Initiative seeks to combat the fixing on the walls of artificial tanning centres of information about the technical body of these same centers. It is funny what the Liberal Initiative says in its proposal, which I am going to paraphrase: we are not against which staff certificates of competence may be consulted, we find it excessive to fix them in visible places. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in popular wisdom, the people say that the worst blind is not what they don't see, "the worst blind is the one who doesn't want to see". The gentlemen. Members continue to believe that the population has full access to technological and computer resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u213	You speak well, but don't make me glad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u214	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, continuing with popular wisdom, let's talk about Bill No. 401 / XV / 1. a, on triplicated copies of the transport guides. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I am giving any news to anyone, but there is already a simplification of the dispensation of transport documents, provided it is communicated to the AT. Today, this is essentially done with a QR code (Quick Response) and not with the transport guides.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u215	A little while ago there was no technology, now there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u216	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, popular wisdom also helps to answer this problem: « to the lack of bread,... », in the Liberal Initiative, «... even migalhas go». [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in these proposals for simplification of the Liberal Initiative there is a denominator in common. The Liberal Initiative simplifies, looking at those who are already able and not those who are not yet able. They believe that everyone has access to technology and that consumer protection is a redundant act. The people also have a saying to this: "He who is ugly loves, beautiful seems to him. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u217	What about the tolls? Talk about the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u218	The Liberal Initiative wants so much to defend one thing that everything seems beautiful to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u219	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the conclusion of this debate, overbureaucracy, allow me to say that the Socialist Party is completely on the side of the issue, but I am afraid it will not be disproposed. Let us see that it has brought us even the question of consumer protection when, last week, the arrival has presented a proposal, precisely on behalf of the consumer, so that when the consumer wants to acquire an electro-domestic equipment, for example, he can soon know the durability and the capacity to reuse and recycling of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u222	It should be said that this proposal accompanied a manifesto signed by numerous NGOs (non-governmental organizations) and environmental associations and even deserved a positive opinion from the Deco (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), which was sent to the emails of all parliamentary groups. Still, this proposal was not only ignored, not deserving of any comment by the Socialist Party, as it was later vetoed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u223	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u225	As for the Left Block, which today also shows its indignation and its great concern with tolls,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u226	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u227	... it should be pointed out that, at the state budget office, when the party came forward with proposals for the reduction of tolls on the 25 April bridge and on the Vasco Bridge of the Gama or, for example, for the exemption of the payment of tolls to emergency and rescue vehicles, the Left Block abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u228	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u229	Sure! He made a similar proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u230	Never mind! So much anger, but he abstained. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As far as the CFP is concerned, it should also be noted that, given its ideological prejudice and the great fear that it has to « benefit economic groups », as they say, it is absolutely indifferent to the need to combat the completely disproportionate penalisation of the common citizen. Therefore, once again, the CFP cannot be next to the ordinary citizen. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Moreover, it should also be said that they also abstained in the proposals of the Arrival that they intended to reduce and end the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u231	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u232	As far as the PSD is concerned, once again they say they want to rule the country, but they are not just banking trainers, because, as always, they are very vocal, but come to this debate without any proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u233	It's abstention, always!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u234	Are we kidding, or what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u235	Let me also make a few points. The State is not a good person, but requires Portuguese to be good people. In fact, the State is always in the right hand to extort the taxpayer, and I am going to give some examples. In 2022, the State profited more than 40 % with traffic fines than in 2021. More: in 2023, the state expects to raise EUR 480 million — I repeat, EUR 480 million! — fines and penalties, to which the value of EUR 87 million may still be added in rates and fines to social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u237	...without even talking about the taxes of the authorities. The State has two weights and two measures: it now increases at the beginning of the year to 6 % the interest due to the State; however, it retains the rate of 4 % whenever it is the State itself to owe money to someone. Therefore, we can only conclude that this model of state organization promotes a vicious circle that is highly perverse. The state complicates the life of the citizen with bureaucracy and pushes him into the situation of irregularity and non-compliance; then, he works with this irregularity and promotes small corruption, insofar as, if he wants to solve some bureaucratic problem, the citizen always needs a facilitator, one or one envelope under the table. [[Congrats from the CH.]] For this reason, we say that the tax invasion of the State leads to the tax evasion of the citizen. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] The example given here was a clear example: a citizen going through an ex-SCUT may experience an absolute nightmare, because he receives a fine for each portico in which he passes and, if not notified by the dealers, he can see small rates of cents reaching values of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u238	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u239	So the question I don't want to keep quiet is this: why are the finances wasting their human and material resources charging fines from private people? Moreover, why are the finances not focused on combating corruption, fraud and tax evasion, what should be its objective? This is why we then have news, which embarrass us, like this: « Corruption. Processes shoot 42 % and cases to solve record baptus. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[At this moment, the speaker showed the newspaper news she referred to.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u241	So, looking at the last days and the successive scandals we have seen in the government, but also in other parties in this House, it is important to ask: after all, to whom is it interested that state institutions are more busy with bureaucracy than fighting corruption? The question remains. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u242	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you now have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u243	Mr President: Mr Artur Soveral Andrade, which I have presented in my speech, and which deserved the agreement of the honourable Member, is exactly what we are proposing! We're against the SCUTs, but that's not what we're proposing. What we are proposing is that the tolls cease to be charged by the AT and become charged by the dealers;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u244	Ah, but the tolls continue!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u245	... and that this regime, which is unfair, violent and disproportionate, gives rise to a fiscal amnesty, because the fines generated in it are, by necessity, unfair. That's the proposal. As far as I can remember, the proposals of the Arrival on the reduction of tolls in the State budget always anticipate, or almost always, the compensation of private dealers. [[CH protests.]] That is something that we cannot actually follow, because one thing is to reduce the value of the tolls, another thing is to be guaranteeing the profit rate of the private dealer—usually, the arrival has this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u246	You're lying, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u247	Mrs Deputy, I don't know what you're doing in public services either, because I've never seen a money envelope being passed on in public services, but if I saw it, I would report it. I repeat: if he lived, he reported. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]] I don't know very well what the experience of arriving is in its relationship with public services, but envelopes of money I have never seen and I think most of us will have the same experience. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u248	Listen, listen, it's good for you! Learn! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u249	... this debate, in its multiplicity and plurality of initiatives, also shows in some way the caricature in which the Liberal Initiative becomes, because it began with a very inflamed speech on bureaucracy and chose a proposal on bides, finally, to bring media attention to this speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u250	They're not bides, they're exclusivity!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u251	The honourable Member's choice was to have a debate on bides, because he thought it was media attention. Of course, then, when the debate came about and it was time to present the proposals, the bide project disappeared,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u252	It went through the pipe!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u253	... but there are still dozens of proposals that are between the harmless and the wrong. Apparently, in addition to the bidet, the Liberal Initiative understands that the major problems of entrepreneurs in Portugal are the obligation of affixing the diplomas of technical personnel in artificial tanning centres and the complexity of signaling on the prohibition of smoking in public places. This is not to speak of the affixing of workers' rights at the workplace.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u254	Where are they? Tell me! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u255	It is that, for the Liberal Initiative, the present work seems to be anachronism and employers become able to communicate with their workers in the way they understand well. Moreover, there are no employers anymore, because the Liberal Initiative wants to go to the labour law and replace « employers » with « administration ». Moreover, the Liberal Initiative wants to go to the law of work and replace « workers» with « employees », as if we now had a code of collaboration instead of having a code of work!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u256	It's the big administrative barrier!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u257	But it's not like that. It is a labor code because there are workers and there are employers, employers; there are no collaborators. It is a sad figure, Mr President — a sad figure, I repeat — that the Liberal Initiative here makes the view that the term 'collaborator' is a modern term that can impose on the country. I would like to give you something new: the term 'collaborator' already existed in Portuguese law between 1934 and 1969. The term 'collaborator' was the way the fascist State treated workers in the law and that ended when there was a law of work that recognized workers, as such, in their relationship with employers and employers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want your brave future, which here they want to bring us, disguised as modern things. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u258	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the end of this debate, I should like to leave two notes on this issue, a first one on the content and form of the debate and another on its objectives. As for form and content, for us, PSD, this is not a serious debate, it is not an appropriate debate, nor is it even effective. In fact, we are talking about 26 legislative initiatives and, throughout the various interventions, it has been proved that, over the time we have, it is not possible to talk about them and make the reflection they deserve so that we can find the solutions that people need. Therefore, this is not the serious way to debate. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, when we saw this schedule, we found that there is only one connection between the various diplomas, which is the expression « delete». We verified this and thought: "Yes, ma'am, we are in favour of simplification". However, we have examined the diplomas and, in the vast majority — and allow me to talk specifically about the subjects of the Labour Code — it is not about simplifying; it is about eliminating rights that are enshrined and that are fundamental to workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u261	Eliminate rights? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u262	...and that's not bureaucracy. [[PSD applause.]] It does not count on the PSD for this simplification, which results in more than taking rights. Finally, and even to end, I wanted to say the following: the objectives of the Liberal Initiative with this debate seem to be clearly to tell us that they are doing something to, in the end, remain exactly the same, and I will explain why I say this. A working group is running on amendments to the Labour Code — a working group that has been meeting for months and which is, I would say, in the near final phase of work — and I have not seen the amendments tabled here by the Liberal Initiative. The right place would be at that time, in that working group! So this is doing anything to get everything exactly the same. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u263	If the specialty process is useless, it will be eliminated!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u264	Here, everyone talked about what they wanted! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u265	Then I can talk too! The speciality process does not exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u266	To close the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We did not come here to propose to end any labour law...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u268	They're coming, they're coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u269	We have come, yes, to propose to end the affixing of a paper that generates a fine, for small companies, up to €4000,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u271	...a role that, in this house, no one has been able to tell me where it is posted at your job. We have not spoken of any replacement of the right to smoke in closed spaces — all Portuguese know that this is not allowed — we have just spoken of not getting a fine of 8000 € for not affixing something that is today in the law. We have not come to withdraw any rights, we have come to remove bonds of affixing roles that generate fines, for small businesses, up to €4000.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u273	Uncomplicated, that's what we came here to propose. over the past few weeks, I have received messages from small businesses, which I would like to share with this House. You say that none of this is important, but there are people who tremble every time they have an ASAE inspection or the Labour Conditions Authority, not because they think they are in breach, but because they are afraid to violate any of these imbecile rules about having roles posted on a wall and that this destroys their business. That's the fear people have! You're not afraid of being in breach. We are told that it is ridiculous to talk about eliminating obligations of affixing, prior warnings, diplomas, tanning centers... Ladies and gentlemen, what is ridiculous is that these laws exist. That's ridiculous! [[Applause from the IL.]] The elimination package we brought today includes many small bureaucracies with reduced effect or concentrated in certain sectors. For some people, for the owners of these businesses, it is extraordinarily important, but small bureaucracies are like pins: each one may seem small, irrelevant, ridiculous even, but all of them add up to bleed the country, generate a climate of insecurity, which is usually called "context costs". It's time to eliminate the ridiculous law!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u275	Among the various things that we have proposed to end is one that, being also absurd, has a devastating effect on the lives of many people and on which, in the midst of so many mouths,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u276	It's not a mouth! What mouths? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u277	...I've hardly heard anyone talk. I am referring to administrative costs due to delays in toll payments. We can solve the fundamental problem, the structural problem, but there is, at present, a problem that we have to solve, which is the problem of people with life ruined by delays in payment of toll debts. And, yes, this is an important problem, ladies and gentlemen. Members; yes, there are people who have life destroyed because of it; yes, there are many people who are waiting for the outcome of tomorrow's vote to know if it will continue with the mortgaged house, if it will continue with the mortgaged salary, if it will continue with the destroyed life. [[Applause from the IL.]] Yeah, it's important. You have ridiculed this discussion, but there are people at home who are waiting to know how we're going to vote tomorrow. There is a serious problem here, which has destroyed the lives of many people, and, as representatives of the Portuguese State, we have a moral duty to send a message to these people, that we are concerned about this problem and are available to resolve it together, regardless of our differences. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u278	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u279	I'll be done, Madam President. I hope that these people will be able to count on everyone in the vote tomorrow so that we can start the process of solving this problem. If they do, they can count on all our openness and flexibility to improve what they consider important to improve in the field of expertise. We care about people, we worry about business, and I am sure that you also care. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u280	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. We thus conclude the second item on the agenda and move on to the third item, with the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 235 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — basic food price scheme, 416 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves measures to promote food donation and to combat food waste by amending Law No 62 / 2021 of 19 August, 417 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates tax incentives for food donation and fight against food waste by amending the Statute for Tax Benefits and the IRC Code, 418 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Enables the application of Zero VAT to the purchase of essential food goods during the year 2023, 423 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — It creates mechanisms for intervention and pricing in essential food goods and 436 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Exemption from VAT on essential foodstuffs. To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents this initiative for the creation of a maximum price scheme to be applied in an essential food tank, thus defining a reference price for each of the products on the basis of real costs and a non-speculative margin, thus prohibiting the sale at a higher price without reasonable justification. With this proposal, we want to give the public authorities the necessary means to intervene on the margins and prices practised by the large distribution, which have been a hard blow to the available income of the Portuguese while smashing the prices paid to the producers and annihilating the small trade. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the brutal increase in the cost of living results, on the one hand, from the enormous rise in prices, which is the largest in the last 30 years, and on the other, from the fall, in real terms, of workers' wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u282	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u283	The Government, which should have a decisive intervention in regulating the prices of essential goods as well as essential services, chooses to attend — as if a crowd were concerned — the loss of purchasing power, favouring and allowing gallop speculation, contributing to the accumulation of fabulous profits and the distribution of dividends, displayed by the economic groups as if they were dealing with trophies. Among the biggest increases, the prices of food products, which rise on average 18, 9 %, do not forget energy products and other services, which also, because they are essential, have increased 23, 7 %. at the same time, the average monthly gross remuneration of workers in real terms fell 4, 7 % by September, taking into account the latest known data. In the case of food goods, and according to the most recent calculations, it is estimated that a food casket has increased 33, 51 € between the beginning and the end of the year. In other words, €183 went to a total of €217, but there are even more significant increases such as: carolin rice, 53 %; tomato pulp, 64 %; tomato pulp, 42 %; carrot, 42 %; cabbage, 39 %; potato, 35 %; dairy on average, 23 %; middle-fat milk, 42 %; meat kilogram, on average, 21 %; fish, 41 %. Finally, it is known that prices have increased cruelly and will continue to increase in the coming months, to which we should add the increases already seen in 2022. But these increases are not reflected in small producers, particularly farmers, who saw their income reduced by 12 %. These increases in the large distribution, which increase profits never seen, have been speculated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u284	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government cannot wash its hands as Pilates in the face of the constant abuses of large distribution, abuses, which are not yet. At a time when workers and pensioners lose purchasing power, these increases of profits, while prices increase, show the need to intervene in order to defend the interests of Portuguese, in particular in access to essential goods. This proposal from the CFP is therefore another initiative aimed at combating inequalities and injustices. That is why we have made the commitment we have to the Portuguese workers and people, so this fight will not be abandoned. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u286	To present the three bills of law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u287	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Pedro Gomes Sanches wrote in the Express last weekend that a country that is satisfied with 125 € and that has 1 million families for whom 240 € makes the difference is not a country, it is a row of people at the door of the « Sidonian soup ». It is true that poverty in Portugal is a structural problem, with structural causes that must be combated, but it is no less certain that this year's record inflation, felt especially at food prices, has further aggravated this problem. We have parents who have stopped eating so their children don't go hungry, essential foods to be subtracted from supermarkets and handless associations to measure for requests for food aid. Therefore, we bring initiatives that seek to help families, associations and companies also start by good practices in combating food waste. On the one hand, we hope that the third will be at once and that there will be sensitivity to the reduction of VAT (value added tax ), moving to zero VAT in essential cabaz food goods. The VAT directive allows the Government to take this measure. Moreover, since April last year this measure can be adopted and, however, the government has done nothing. This measure has already been adopted by the neighbouring Spain, Poland and, still yesterday, the German Minister for Agriculture defended the same measure for the reduction of VAT on fruit and vegetables. It has also been defended by the Order of Nutritionists, which would allow families to save about €394 per year. On the other hand, we want food donations to be increased through the creation of tax incentives at the head of IRC (tax on the income of the public) so that companies combat food waste and provide food to associations in the field who are helping families. We know that it is not the food donation that fights structural poverty, but we know that there are people going hungry and we cannot continue to lie down every day, food for garbage. Donations represent 31 % of the support to associations and should therefore be encouraged. What the NAP here proposes, in addition to fully aligning itself with the Waste Directive, complies with the recommendations of the European Court of Auditors and responds to appeals, either from the business sector or from associations, especially for Refood. Finally, and because this debate is about the food sector, it is intended to improve the law of food waste, approved here, also by the NAP proposal. We want food that is not in a condition for consumption to be referred to organic recovery solutions and that there is a zero waste logic and we want supermarkets to be able to have sections for sale for fruit designated as 'beautiful or insectetic fruit', thus combating food waste, something that we cannot afford in luxury, in the difficult context in which we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u288	That proposal is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u289	To submit Bill No. 423 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — It creates mechanisms for intervention and pricing in essential food goods, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u290	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past year, prices for essential goods have gone off. Today, the feeling at the exit of a supermarket is outraged by the increase in prices. In the last year inflation has risen, as we haven't seen in decades. In a few months, it rose by more than 10 %. But the main impact is sense in essential goods. According to a study by Deco in the last year, the price of lacticines rose by more than 26 %; the price of meat rose by more than 22 %; the price of frozen meat rose by more than 20 %; the price of the merceries increased by almost 20 %; the price of the fish rose by 17 %; and fruit and vegetables also increased by a price of that order of magnitude. These prices are abuse, and we need to give an answer to defend the people of this abuse. These increases are even more abusive when we look at some specific products. For example, carolin rice almost doubled in price in the last year, the lettuce costs 51 % more, the price of half-fat milk increased 42 %, the price of Maria biscuit rose 38 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u291	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u292	We already know that the government will say that the problem is inflation and that inflation is the fault of war in Ukraine, we know that. The very rich will say exactly the same, but the reality is quite different: while the abusive prices of essential goods went off, the profits of large distribution companies also beat records. Jerome Martins, wife of Pingo Doce, had the superluck of 419 million euros in the first nine months of 2022. [[What about the Continent?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u293	Already Sonae's profits, owner of the Continent,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u294	... had a super increase of 32 % last year. The superluctures of these economic groups reflect the abuse of the large distribution in their almost monopolistic positions. They squeeze producers into guardianship, putting many companies at risk, but then fattening profits with price increases that impose on people. It's abuse! Not by chance, in June last year, the Competition Authority ( AD ) multiplied four supermarket chains — Auchan, E. Leclerc, Continent Model and Pingo Doce — in 132 million euros, for, as described, a conspiracy equivalent to a cartel, which deprived consumers of lower prices. Other fines and processes are based on consumer pricing schemes. It is these abuses, these superlucres, which trigger inflation, and it is therefore mandatory to defend the people of these abuses. There are those who propose to lower VAT from the prices of essential goods. It is not a proposal that deserves our opposition, but the only way to defend people is to end these abuses that the super rich are imposing on the country, and that is not done without controlling the price of essential goods. In fact, as it demonstrates in Spain, lowering VAT without controlling prices only serves to give more profits to these superriches, and that is why the only proposal that responds to justice, which defends the portfolio of people, which ends with the abuses of those who have superlucks at the expense of the impoverishment of the country, is the proposal that controls the prices of essential goods. And here we see who has the courage to defend people, whether the government defends people from the abuse of the super rich or leaves people behind. Our choice is clear: to defend people from abuse, to control the prices of essential goods. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u295	To submit Bill No. 436 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Exemption from VAT on essential foodstuffs, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u296	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In November 2022, only VAT revenue had already increased almost EUR 3200 million compared to the same period of the previous year. In support of this data, we quickly found that while the State earns billions of euros with inflation, Portuguese families are witnessing the rise in food prices month after month.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u298	This already worrying socio-economic context is a real drama for many families, if we consider that this year the inflation rate will continue to be high and will add up-CL- difficulties regarding the payment of loans to housing, as a direct consequence of the increase in interest rates. In a country where more than 4 million people depend on social benefits to live decently, the socio-economic scenario that is expected for the next few days is quite worrying. A change to the VAT code, exempting from this tax the essential food products, seems to us to be an essential measure to help mitigate the enormous difficulties that are being encountered, especially for the most deprived families. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is a measure already implemented in Spain, Poland, Ireland and Malta. If this measure were implemented in Portugal, it would allow each family an annual saving in the order of €400.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u300	of the bills presented to the debate, the initiatives of the Left Block and the PCP are those that most shock us, because they provide for the creation of mechanisms of administrative pricing, for the public authorities to intervene directly on the prices practiced only by the large distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u301	In Cuba it's the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u302	In other words, in addition to wanting to establish a price dictatorship for large distribution, which constitutes a clear anti-competitive practice, they also endanger the employment of thousands of workers and suppliers, who depend on the large food chains to survive,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] ... since the imposition of a limit on an artificially low level, which does not allow companies to recover their costs, may trigger the closure of enterprises, particularly those of lower size. In the case of the CFP, the proposal still provides for the creation of observatories to control price practices, which is clearly counterproductive, considering the oversized macrostructure of the State. With regard to the NAP bills, we believe that the donation of food for solidarity purposes and the fight against food waste should be a civic, ethical and moral attitude that any entity should assume, whether particular, collective, public or private, and should not therefore be the target of any financial counterpart. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As regards zero VAT for essential food goods, which the NAP also presents, we do not understand why meat, fish, milk and eggs have been excluded from the proposal,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... since, according to the World Health Organization, these foods are also essential for a healthy diet. And no, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we are not going to get into the dispute of who first presented the proposal for zero VAT. We know that the NAP is very concerned about this, even by the statements published on the social networks, however, it is important to remind the honourable Member that the European Commission had already signalled in March last year that new rules for the reduction of VAT to zero for food products would enter into force. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I do not recognize you with all your border rights with regard to this initiative. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u303	You didn't hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u304	But even so, our proposals differ on a fundamental point: while our proposal for zero VAT covers all essential foodstuffs, your proposal focuses only on food for vegans, in a clear use of the suffering of deprived families, in order to try to convert them to your ideologies. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And yes, Mrs Deputy, who suffers from this inflation also has the right to eat meat, also has the right to eat fish, also has the right to drink milk and eat eggs. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u305	Long live the barbecues!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u306	Mr Sérgio Ávila of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Combating inflation and mitigating its effects is undoubtedly a key vector of the government's action strategy. in this context, this strategy is based on four fundamental vectors: first, the strengthening of income through wages, particularly the minimum wage, pensions and social benefits; second, the containment of energy and fuel prices; third, support for housing costs, with income fixing and maintenance of public transport; and fourth, which is essential, support for the income of families, particularly of the most deprived families. The whole of these measures, these strategies, involved an investment of EUR 5, EUR 5 billion in the last year, particularly in the First—EUR 2, EUR 4 billion Family Programme—and in Energy to Advance—EUR 1400 million. This strategy is based on direct support for families, essentially the most vulnerable families, and on an effective and efficient inflation attack, particularly through energy price containment efforts, including light and gas, because, according to all statistics, the increase in energy price is what, on the one hand, has a higher value in the context of the composition of inflation and, on the other hand, contributes more, with multiplier effect, to the setting up of the price of other goods and services. It is therefore important to act on this matter effectively and efficiently, as we have done. In fact, EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) announced yesterday a reduction in energy tariffs. For the purposes of market regularisation and market intervention alone, EUR 3 billion was invested, making it effective to contain this price, which has an essential multiplier effect on the composition of all other prices of goods and services, particularly in the transition of EUR 1 million and 300 thousand to the regulated gas market. But if the most effective way to tackle inflation has to do with this strategy, it is more important to reflect on the effectiveness and efficiency of other proposals. In some of them, their kindness may be completely dissociated from their practical effects of effectiveness. One is undoubtedly the administrative fixation of marketable prices in the global market. As can be seen in any country that has done so, the administrative fixation of marketable goods prices in the global market has no effect on price reduction, and only as a result of the relocation of these marketable goods to other markets, given that we are in an open and competitive market. So sometimes the apparent kindness of some measures has practical consequences contrary to those proposed, and therefore our opposition to some of these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u308	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Ramalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u309	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indisputable that we are currently faced with a huge increase in the prices of essential food goods, which is of great concern to the PSD. According to Deco Protest, as mentioned above, between 23 February 2022, on the eve of the start of the war in Ukraine, and 4 January 2023, the price of the cabal of essential food goods has already increased by around 19, 4 %, a much higher than the average inflation rate estimated to be fixed in the order of 8 % at the end of 2022, and may reach 5, 8 % in 2023 according to the Banco de Portugal. This is a clearly more pessimistic view than that of the current Socialist Government, which recently presented a State budget based on a macroeconomic scenario which provides for an inflation rate of only 4 % for the current year. All of this is compounded by the growing loss of purchasing power for Portuguese, which, it is recalled, fell 1, 1 %, by 2021, by 2020, at 75, 1 % of the European average. According to the INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ), Portugal today occupies 16. the position between the 19 euro area Member States only in front of Latvia, Slovakia and Greece. Unfortunately, everything indicates that the loss of purchasing power of the Portuguese continued in 2022 and will continue in 2023. It is also quite true that agricultural and livestock producers are clearly the weakest link in the value chain, with an average of less than 25 % of the value paid by final consumers, with the aggravating that they are completely unable to impact the increase in production costs on the selling price of their products. It is not by chance that there is a Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain, known as PARCA, created in 2011, by the joint order of the then Ministries of Economics and Agriculture, which has on mission precisely the promotion of market transparency and the balance in the distribution of agricultural and agri-food products. However, it is very far from fulfilling its mission well, although it integrates within it representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and Economics, producer organisations, companies related to trade and distribution, agro-food industries, the Competition Authority, the Directorate-General for Economic Activities and the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs. And if there is a sector that has been hit by the recent inflationary escalation, that was, without doubt, the agricultural one. For us to have a small idea, the price of colorful diesel was, until a few weeks ago, almost twice that of that which was practiced in January 2021; the costs with electricity doubled in most cases; fertilizers increased in the last 18 months by about 150 %; feed rations suffered an increase of more than 50 %. As an example, the total cost of producing 1 l of milk in the last 12 months has increased by 53 %. It was not by chance that the PSD proposed, on several occasions, the increase in support for farmers, in particular at the level of fuel and electricity, unfortunately without proper reception by the Government and the Socialist Bank. We therefore support the concerns of the CFP and the Left Block, but we cannot endorse the proposed price fixing solution by administrative means. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u310	We defend, yes, more and better regulation, that it is recognised, that it has authority and consequently, so that the market works truly and responsibly, offering consumers freedom of choice, at fair prices, and that it is able to pay fairly the value chain, and that, without free and properly regulated market, we will not have competitive producers or demanding consumers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u311	For an intervention, Mrs Clarisse Campos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the authors of the initiatives we have discussed here today, which bring to the debate a problem of extreme importance. The growing environmental concerns, coupled with the lack of goods and economic difficulties arising from either the effects of a pandemic or the war in Ukraine, have shown that the rational consumption of available food is urgent and essential. This is a problem that has undeniable economic and social consequences. Today, more than ever, it is important to think and rethink each choice, from the moment of production to the moment of consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u314	It is not acceptable for it to be consumed irresponsiblely and to be produced without such benefit to anyone, when so many need and do not have. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u315	In Portugal, official data for the first time revealed indicate that by 2020 1, 89 million tonnes of food were wasted, an average of 183 kg per Portuguese citizen, much more than previously estimated. Combating food waste is thus a global priority, a collective social responsibility and an obligation that each of us must internalize in his or her daily choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u317	It is not surprising, therefore, that this issue is recurrent here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with the presentation of several initiatives, as has been done today, and that, over the years, the Socialist Party has given evidence of recognition and action in this area, such as, for example, in 2016, with the establishment of the National Committee on Combating Food Waste and, two years later, with the approval of its action plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u318	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u319	All contributions and perspectives are useful for promoting the debate and should be analysed, whether they focus on the issue of food waste, such as the NAP proposals — promoting the flow of imperfect products and tax incentives to the food donation — or focusing on the more specific issue of prices, such as the proposals of the CFP and the Left Block, which defend maximum limits in the trade of food goods considered to be of first need. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this last issue addressed in the initiatives of the CFP and the Left Block, it should be noted that the Government is paying attention, and has already proved it, with the various measures adopted so far, to mitigate the effects of inflation and the increase in the prices of foodstuffs of first need.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u321	We know that it is necessary to do more and more better, and that is what the Socialist Party will continue to do, ensuring, once again, that no one will be left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u322	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Dantas, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u323	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I confess that when I see proposals for draft measures, measures that are popular and that please Greeks and trojans — such as those of the tax benefits in donations and zero VAT — I wonder how not to support them. However, what you realize is that what is involved is to give a child a sketch in the morning and demand that the child wait three or more days for it to be consumed. This is the case with the proposed measures, which will only be applicable in 2024, i.e. now show the sketch and only be consumed within a year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u324	Still, and recognizing the good intentions of the bidders, we go to objective questions that limit the effectiveness of the bidders. Is it even through fiscal policy that the reduction of food waste and the increase in food donations will be promoted? What impact does this type of initiative have on the so-called simplification of the Portuguese tax system? Have you ever seen the accession of similar measures, such as increases in donations to the cultural mecenate? It's €25 000 in a year. With regard to other tax subsidies — zero VAT for certain goods — but also, if the PS agrees, they could only be consumed in 2024, I wonder whether the change in VAT would have even impact on families or whether the value of tax would not be absorbed by sellers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u325	Does it make sense that such a measure has no time limit? How can one have a tax measure of these in 2024 and go back to 2023, which in the meantime has already begun? Which system detects who consumed the goods at 0% and 6%? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have been drawn up separately, there is no doubt that it is up to the Government and the PS to promote compensation for the degradation of the Portuguese socio-economic situation by means of measures that are of direct and safe effect in families and businesses, which are essentially for those who need the most... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u326	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u327	... and which combat poverty, create economic growth and compensate for the loss of purchasing power, which in the two years 2022 - 2023 will be 4, 5 % according to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u328	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u329	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I want to start by saying that when I hear the statements of the Socialist Party Members, I think we live in a different country, either in relation to the families or in relation to the government. Inflation reached 8 % in 2022, and the change in the harmonised consumer price index for food and non-alcoholic beverages was 20 % between November 2021 and November 2022 — 20 %! This inevitably caused a serious problem in a country that, already in 2021, even before inflation increased, had 2, 3 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion after State transfers, in a country where more than half of the workers earn less than €800. The problem is that this Government and the Socialist Party have already decided that the best solution for this crisis and its consequences is to pass the blame. At the beginning of 2022, blame was passed on to the European Union, because it did not allow VAT to be lowered. The European Commission has authorised to lower VAT, and VAT has remained unchanged. Then it was the fault of the food distribution companies, and then the government came to create a contribution on extraordinary profits, a measure that has not solved any problems, it does not even work on financing in the face of solutions. And what solutions did the PS say to present, with great quanagios? It updated the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) insufficiently; checks here and there, without reforms, without seriously reaching those who need it, but financing those who do not need it effectively. And what did the Socialist Party still do? In the light of the proposals of the Liberal Initiative, for example in the State Budget—in which an effective, significant tax relief was allowed through the IRS—the PS refused. The Liberal Initiative also proposed, for example, the exemption of VAT on food products, but the PS refused, without solutions and a blocking force. This Government received more than EUR 3 billion in VAT revenue in 2022, compared to EUR 2021 ; this Government received more than EUR 1, EUR 4 billion in VAT than the revenue provided for in the State budget ; this Government plans to receive more than EUR 1000 million in VAT revenue in 2023. However, it does not agree to abdicate any of this VAT revenue. The government does not open the door to fiscal voracity. On the other hand, he sees it impoverish families, as if it were a fatality, but it is not a fatality. And on today's agendas, we will follow up on all the proposals that release the families from the tax burden on food and will vote against all the measures to fix prices, which promise to make food emergencies worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u330	Let's try it! Your choice already exists, let's try ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u331	On these, we remember the PCP: they do not learn, neither with the economy, nor with the history. And we remind the PS that in order to approve the VAT proposals, it would be necessary to have courage and good sense, but the PS and the government have shown no courage or good sense. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u332	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Carla Castro has just told whoever defends pricing that she has not learned from the economy or history. We can talk about history. This poster we have here says: « Inflation, prices rise, people stop buying, business collapse, people lose jobs. Help OPA ( Office of Price Administration ) to fight inflation. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker displayed a copy of the poster he mentioned. This OPA was not a creation of the Soviet Union, of Stalin, was a creation of the United States of America, of Roosevelt, which had an Office of Price Administration which basically did what the CFP proposes that the Planning, Policy and Administration Office of the Ministry of Agriculture do. This was not done to impose socialism, it was done to save capitalism, and it resulted. There was no famine or food shortage in the United States during the war; what was a decrease in inflation in time of war, which is what we have in Europe now. Therefore, refusing to learn from history is, when we have inflation in time of war, refusing to see that the price table has already worked. It worked in history and worked for the economy. When I finish, I will give you a copy of these posters to the Liberal Initiative, so that you can see that in capitalist America, prices would also be set, and I will give you one to the CFP, to welcome you for an initiative that is absolutely timely, because at the moment in Portugal, there is 20 % inflation in food. Worse than Portugal, only in Hungary, Mr Filipe Melo, who has 44 % inflation in food, I repeat 44 % with his policies. [[CH protests.]] If we lower 6 % of VAT by 20 %, there is still too much inflation so that most Portuguese can pay it. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u334	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u335	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, it became clear that, when the arrival speaks of defending families, it speaks of the Soares dos Santos family, wife of the Pink Doce, of the Azevedo family, wife of the Continent. [[CH's laughs.]] But we already knew that, because, in fact, they are the families of the super-rich, as was the Champalimaud family or the Mello family, that they defend. It is not the Portuguese families, it is not the common Portuguese, the common citizen, it is not. They're the super rich. And that's why this position of arriving is almost paradigmatic. Mr President, you could ask your bench colleague there if he doesn't know how the Continent or the Pink Doce works, putting down, far down, the purchase price for the producers. In fact, the Left Block proposal requires transparency in price formation, requires maximum ceilings in the prices that families have to pay for essential goods and defend the small producers, who are being destroyed—they themselves say! — by the abusive margins of the Continent, the Pingo Doce. Well, we found out that, after all, the families defended by the Arrival are the families of the super-rich.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u336	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u337	I will finish, Madam President. The freedom defended by the Liberal Initiative is the freedom of the superabuse that we now see Pingo Doce and the Continent to do about families. As for PSD and PS, we know that they are careful, but do something to defend the people of this abuse of the super rich, who are earning millions with the cost of living of people, who impoverish the country, zero. I think this is paradigmatic of the debate we are in: to defend people, only here is the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u338	Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for an equally short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to reply to Mr Rui Tavares that the Portuguese economy is not the American economy. [[L. Protests.]] In reply to the Member of the Left Block, I would like to ask whether he has already read the opinion of the Competition Authority on the administrative fixation of prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u340	And have you read the process that they put on the Continent and Pinko Doce? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u341	I'll just read you a paragraph. According to AdC, «... price controls distort price signals on the market and may involuntaryly lead to supply shortages and breakdowns in the value chain ». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u342	We have concluded this debate. To conclude, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u343	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Sérgio Ávila. I would like to tell you that, in this debate, in which we are talking about the possibility of the Portuguese to be able to access essential goods — something that is so common to the population, namely the increase in the cost of these essential goods and the loss of purchasing power with which the population is faced — it is important that we have a principle and a criterion, at least, of intellectual honesty. I want to tell you why? Because you said that, in fact, on this liberalized and open market, there can be no regulated prices. I would like to remind you of what your government has done recently, and for which it has alerted the Portuguese, which has been for the return to the regulated market in this case of natural gas. But there is also the case of energy. So this case and this example do not serve. Well, the result of the policies defending the Reach, the Liberal Initiative, the PSD and, including the PS, is this, Mr. Member : it is the breakdown of prices to the producer. An artichoke that costs the producer 1, 02 € reaches the consumer table at 3, 47 €, plus 241 %. This is the dictatorship that came to refer to; the dictatorship of the prices that already exist; the dictatorship that crushes the buying prices to the producer, impoverishs the population and, above all, fills the pockets of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u344	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u345	And this is where the government resists, and when the government resists to increase wages and pensions, when the government resists price regulation, the result is the impoverishment of the population. Moreover, the Government and the absolute majority of the PS reveal that they do not differ from the right; they reveal that they have a speech that has no solutions for the country; they reveal that they lack these solutions, especially because they have an absolute collusion with the large economic groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u347	...and prefer to defend your interests. Moreover, when we hear today the Liberal Initiative, the Reach, the PSD, the NAP, defending the reduction of VAT, we have to say: reducing VAT without there being a control and price regulation means increasing the shameful profits of economic groups. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — and in conclusion, Madam President — let me tell you: this inflationary process, this brutal inflation that falls on the Portuguese, does not result from the demand side, comes from the supply side. Therefore, it is on the side of the offer that we must intervene, with price regulation and with an increase in wages. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-01-12.u348	We have concluded our agenda. Tomorrow, the plenary session starts at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: in the first item, we generally have discussion of Bill Nos 140 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures public management of water supply and sanitation, 429 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for the public management of water and sanitation systems and 440 / XV / 1. a (L) — Right to basic sanitation. of the second point is the discussion of Petition No 226 / XIV / 2. a ( STAL, ANDEEP, ANDE, FENPROF, CNIPE, FNSTPS and others) — Not to the transfer of competences to municipalities (municipalization) in education, together with the Resolution Project No 320 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reversion of the process of transfer of competence to authorities in the area of education. At the third item on the agenda we have the debate on Petition No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( CIPSO - Group of citizens by the elders of Odivelas and others) — The construction of a public senior residential structure in Odivelas in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of a new public residential structure for the elderly in Odivelas and 319 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By building a home of elderly public management in the Odivelas municipality. of the fourth point is the discussion of Petition No 62 / XIV / 1. a ( Portuguese Association of Musictherapy and others) — Recognition of the profession of music therapist in Portugal. And finally, at the fifth and last point we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The sitting is thus closed. See you tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 5 minutes.]]
