ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you. Let me remind you that today, at 6 p.m. or at the end of the plenary session, we will have an evocative session of the centenary of the birth of Natalia Correia, writer and Member. Therefore, all those who want to associate will be welcome. The speeches will be from biographer Filipa Martins, architect Helena Roseta and our colleague Fernando Negrão. The first item on the agenda is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV — It regulates the conditions under which the death aided drug is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. I shall proceed to read the letter which Mr. President of the Republic has sent to me: « I address your Excellency to the obligation of Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV, which regulates the conditions under which the death of an assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code in the following terms: 1. By judgment No 5 / 2023, the Constitutional Court decided to take a decision on the unconstitutionality of the rule set out in Article 2 ( f ). the, in conjunction with the standard referred to in Article 3 ( 1 ). the, both of which are in Decree No 23 / XV. 2. It did so on the basis of the violation of the principle of the determination of laws, as a corollary to the principles of the State of democratic law, of legality, in its dimension of reservation of law, and of legal certainty and the protection of trust, arising from the conjugated provisions of Articles 2. o is 165. paragraph 1 ( b ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by reference to the inviolability of human life, as set out in Article 24. the, paragraph 1, which regulated the conditions under which the death of an assisted drug would not be punishable, for that purpose by amending the Penal Code. 3. The Constitutional Court’s decision was based on the conviction that the wording of paragraph 2 (f) could raise interpretative doubts about its exact scope of application, since, by listing “suffering of great intensity” as physical, psychological and spiritual suffering, it was not clear whether such enumeration would be cumulative or alternative. 4. This is whether, cumulatively, physical, psychological and spiritual suffering was required, or whether one of them would be sufficient to justify the use of assisted drug death — the physical or the psychological or the spiritual. 5. The legislator now took over the original version of the standard, which was limited to referring to the suffering of great intensity, without specifying what nature it was about. 6. The legislator did not, however, limit itself to the revision of the norm on which the Constitutional Court's unconstitutional judgment took place, but decided to go further, amending two other rules, which relate to the relationship between assisted suicide and euthanasia. 7. In fact, it was the result of explanations of vote in the above-mentioned judgment No 5 / 2023 that the legislator had not determined any relationship between assisted suicide and euthanasia, which seemed possible the choice between them. 8. Now, in this new version, the patient no longer has the right to choose between merely assisted suicide or euthanasia. 9. In fact, a new paragraph 5 was added to Article 3. , provided that“ Assisted drug death can only occur by euthanasia when assisted drug suicide is impossible due to the physical disability of the patient. ” 10. Similarly, the last part of Article 9 ( 2 ) has been amended. the, establishing that the administration of lethal drugs by the doctor or health professional occurs when the patient is physically disabled from self-administering. 11. The question of who defines this situation and the compatibility of Article 16 is thus raised. Article 19 ( 1 ) and Article 19 ( 1 ). the, with the removal of the choice between suicide merely assisted or euthanasia. 12. Since, in accordance with the same Article 9 (2). it is up to the guidance physician to inform and clarify the patient about the methods available to practice death assisted medicine and that the same guidance physician must be present at the time of administration or self-administration of lethal drugs, in accordance with Article 10 ( 2 ). Article 14. would it not be imperative for him to also decide on the physical disability of the patient? Or who is it then? To the specialist doctor? 13. And that would fall to the guidance doctor and not to another doctor present the medical supervision provided for in Article 9 (2). o? Now, even more, because of the addition of the final part of the precept? 14. In short, by not referring to any of the multiple questions already subject to assessment and decision in the past, by the Constitutional Court and by the Assembly itself — from respect for the right to life, of the assumptions or requirements of the use of non-punishable assisted drug death and its modalities or the densification of those assumptions or requirements — I am referring only to the matters explicitly dealt with in this fourth version of the legal diploma. 15. Specifically, I would ask the Assembly of the Republic to clarify who defines the physical inability of the patient to self-administer lethal drugs, and who should ensure medical supervision during the act of assisted drug death. 16. in connection with this sensitivity and the brief parliamentary debate on the last two amendments, it seems prudent that all conceptual dilucidation is guarded, even by the given step and its largely original character in Comparative Law. in these terms, I return, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 43 / XV. The President of the Republic Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” So I finished reading the presidential message. Let us now move on to point 2 of our agenda, but, first, we have the usual reading of the dossier, for which I address Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I begin by announcing, firstly, the withdrawal by the proposer of draft resolution No 336 / XV / 1. a ( IL). They entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President to draft resolutions Nos 630 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 631 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and Bills Nos 733 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 734 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u3	We will then move on to the debate on justice required by the PSD Parliamentary Group. To open the debate on behalf of the proposed Parliamentary Group, the PSD has the floor of Mrs Mónica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to regret the absence of the Minister of Justice, who should be in this important debate. [[PSD applause.]] The PS has been ruling for eight years and has postponed justice for the escalation, relegating the judicial system to an intolerable degradation of its functioning, with private citizens accessing justice and obtaining decisions in good time. The state of the courts is like that of our country: falling apart. This was the elucidative title of a recent newspaper article, which reports the complaints made in the 23 annual reports on the management of judicial districts. It is said there, by the judges presidents, that, and I quote: «the portrait of our courts shows the picture of poverty and dishonor». These are strong words, but which well characterize the state of justice in Portugal. It is precisely because it does not comply with or accept the way in which the government has despised the justice that the PSD has allocated this legislative debate, to once again place justice in the centre of attention. The government's disinvestment in justice is not only at the level of the building, with courts and services where it rains, with infiltrations, rats, structures and sculptures falling into pieces, humidity and the fearful asbestos, many of them working in containers, which have become provisionals, without conditions for those who work there and for those who have to move there. We know that the Ministry of Justice announced that it would be approved, and I quote, « an ambitious investment programme for rehabilitation intervention or new constructions, for the period 2023 - 2027 ». It remains to be known whether it will have the same fate as the so-called Plurianual Strategic Plan of Requalification and Modernization of the Network of Tribunals 2018 - 2028, which is in progress, but which did nothing. [[PSD applause.]] Many plans, many working groups, many « we will make happen», as the Minister says, but zero results.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u6	Deinvestment is cross-cutting in all areas of justice. There is a lack of human and technical resources. I am talking about the escalation in which the criminal investigation has plunged, with serious risk of prescribing crimes relating to economic and financial crime, including corruption, and many of them have already prescribed, which is intolerable. That you are not thinking of reducing defence guarantees, as we have already heard, because that is not where the problem is. The parties and their representatives have very short deadlines to meet. The Public Prosecutor's Office must be equipped with means, but lack the human and technological resources necessary for rapid and efficient criminal investigation. There are missing prosecutors, lack judicial police inspectors ( PJ ), lack OPC(criminal police bodies ), lack experts, lack IT, financial and other expertise, without which corruption and crime generally do not fight. We do not like to see this investment in criminal investigation, much less when the government propagates the fight against corruption, without effectively providing the necessary and sufficient means for criminal investigation. [[PSD applause.]] It is the PSD's call to make a responsible opposition and, therefore, we tell the government that it is with great concern that, at the end of many years, the processes where figures are being accused are still in the early stages, which were on the motto and on the top decision-making of the country in neural areas. The immobilism of administrative and tax courts is also known suddenly, and it is a very serious problem. It is shocking to see the Minister of Justice, who announced — and with permission! — that, in order to reduce expectations in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, a temporary regime has been approved for persons or entities, who have proceedings to run in these courts, to withdraw or pass in the cars, returning the State 25 % of the fees. It is astonishing that this authentic denial of justice is unleashed to which they call the decongesting measure of the courts. [[PSD applause.]] That is, if the citizen gives up and gets away with the damage he had before the courts were used and still bear the cost of 75 % of the fees already paid, plus the other charges of the case, no justice is done, but the government cleans the courts! [[PSD applause.]] It is the purest intellectual dishonesty, dare to propose such a thing, constipating the denial of access to justice by the Government. It will be for the citizens to begin doing justice by their own hands. It is like telling the patient, who goes to the hospital, that they pay him 25% of the moderate rate to leave without receiving treatment. This is what's happening. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister of Justice has also announced — under the circumstances and circumstances of those who claim the paternity of the measure — the establishment of a new central administrative court to decongest the second instance in the administrative and fiscal courts. Such a measure is welcomed because it is absolutely necessary, remembering, however, that the PSD presented, in this legislature, the Bill No. 53 / XV / 1. to propose precisely the establishment of a new central administrative court in the central area, knowing that the situation of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is chaotic, and that questions the prestige and dignity of the state, being imperative to introduce measures that combat the chronic paralysis of these courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u8	What the Government now proposes has been proposed by the PSD on 20 April 2022 at this Legislative Session,... [[PSD applause.]] ... having sent the Commission, without a vote, attention to the resistance expressed by the PS and the total rejection to date by the Minister of Justice. This delay affected citizens and businesses, and the new central administrative court, as well as the respective judges' framework, could and should be formed. It is also with great concern that we find chaos in the courts, with more than 21,000 delays — 21,000 delays, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not 10, it's not 20, it's not 100, it's 21,000 challenges! — by virtue of the strike of judicial officials who, being fair, and this is a given acquired, have already caused more damage than the pandemic. The Minister of Justice was informed of the strike in early January. We are in mid-April and have not yet done anything to prevent this disqualification, nor have he presented any plans for the recovery of all these delays and delays. It holds an iron arm with the judicial officials and has no discernment to see the rumbe that is causing in justice. Also the inspectors of the Judicial Police (PJ) are on strike, being legitimate what they claim. The ineptness of the Minister of Justice to manage crises and dialogue with whom guardianship is very worrying and is digging a gap that burys justice. It is easy to understand the damage the PJ strike caused by criminal investigation at overtime, because criminals do not choose to act at the time of the file. The same is true of the record sector and notariate, where conservatories are forced to close because of lack of human resources, as recently happened in the Conservatory of Ponta Delgada, among others. With regard to the electronic distribution of the processes, the door was finally published, although with almost two years' delay. But it has been drafted in a poor way, which distorts the laws which have been passed in Parliament and which have sought to introduce scrutiny and transparency, and it has already been said by the Minister of Justice that she would not correct the door office, despite the fact that it is wrong to do so, that it takes the necessary steps. In justice, everything is to be done: the reform of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, which is urgent; the review of access to law and to courts, which is urgent; the end of exorbitant judicial costs is urgent; the review of the table of fees of informal lawyers is urgent. The reform of the ECJ ( Centre for Judicial Studies ) is urgent — it is not enough to announce the creation of the new pole in Vila do Conde, which is even under way, that access and training of judges must be reformed — and the inalienable and unadjustable reform of the prison system and social reintegration. I recall that Portugal has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for violating fundamental rights and for inhuman, cruel and degrading treatment of prisoners, and that resocialization practically does not exist. Question : Who does the system give us back at the end of the sentence? Finally, but no less important, it must be said that justice has taken a rough blow with the bite that the government wants to put in professional orders. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, without free and independent lawyers, there is no rule of law, nor is there any defense of fundamental rights. [[PSD applause.]] The day we need a lawyer, any of us will immediately realize that. I conclude by saying that we live a black page in justice that has to be turned quickly and that the PSD proposes to consubstantialize this turn. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u9	Mrs De Clercq, you have joined the Bureau to make requests for clarification, three ladies and gentlemen. Members, to whom you have informed that you will answer together. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Francisco Pereira de Oliveira, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u10	Mr President, Mrs Mónica Quintela, after hearing your speech, for whom I am considering, I cannot believe that I believe more in what you have just said. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u11	I've been a lawyer for over 36 years and I know the difficulties and shortcomings of the system. That not everything is done, I can agree, but that nothing has been done or that there is chaos, forgive me, but you don't believe me. I can therefore leave examples of 2022 : 3, 4 million euros in 45 courts, 1 million euros in EP (prison establishments), 75,000 educational centres, 4 functional houses, the IML ( Institute of Legal Medicine ) of Porto with 90 000 euros for registers of about 3 million euros and 53 childcare rooms in the courts between 2022 and 2023. Works in progress: about 3, 8 million euros in the Beja and Torres Vedras Palace of Justice. For 2023, there are also some investments : EUR 6, EUR 5 million in courts, EUR 2, EUR 4 million in various EPs, EUR 600 thousand in educational centres and EUR 15, EUR 3 million in judicial police.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u12	That was the minister you wrote, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u13	A protocol was signed to integrate 44 buildings of Justice into the public housing stock exchange, about 47 fires, 50 % of which were allocated to the judicial officers who met the requirements. But by reviewing the 2022 PSD electoral programme, there is a reference to various areas of justice, however, vague and imprecise, without defining its execution form. We're on fire, VV. For example, some priorities, such as combating corruption and crime, are related. The truth is that the legislative package of the fight against corruption has already been approved, with the votes of the PSD. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u14	Is it, Mrs. Member, that nothing has been done? They refer to a strong commitment in the management of technological means. I would like to give a few examples: in relation to the electronic court certificate, the number of 2021, compared to 2029, more than doubled, from 29 000 to 62 000, in a total of 72 000, in 2022. In the online criminal register, 369 000 records were issued and 92 % of these applications do not involve travel or printing documents. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Regarding judicial support via social security, plus 8000 applications, there was a reduction in bureaucracy and greater speed in the request. These realities are effective and concrete in the field. The most incongruent of your proposals is the need for proximity justice, when it was the PSD that closed down various courts and various justice services and that invested in justice services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not everything is done, but the truth is we've taken some time to put back what VV. Ex.s closed, opening the courts and reinvesting in services that had suffered very considerable cuts. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] As for the officers of justice, in your programme, not a word on the status. I recall what happened in 2014, in which the law of silence was imposed on justice officers due to the computer crash. Mrs Depute, the judicial officers are making a legitimate strike to claim wage valuation and professional careers, instead of the strikes they did in 2014 with the PSD, which were intended to react to wage cuts and acquired rights. This is a huge and profound difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, since the drafting of the statute is under negotiation, it is not curious that, in the middle, they intend to include certain benefits that will be part of the statute, in addition to which the Minister of Justice has already referred and has already guaranteed the inclusion of claims that are considered fair. In view of the above, Mrs Deputies, once again, I ask you whether, after all, nothing has been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u15	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the PSD for having marked this debate to discuss and discuss a fundamental issue for our society, which is justice. Indeed, eight years of socialist governance, the responsibilities for the state of justice, without role, without the review of the careers of justice officers and with times of unacceptable procedural resolution, are clear. This is the real country in which we live and in which all Portuguese people live who, when they want to access justice, face all these problems, which are the result of eight years of the governance of the Socialist Party and the policies directed by, now, Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. But it is also the result of not adopting the structural measures and reforms which, whether we want or not, are urgent in our judicial system. We agree with the diagnosis made by Mrs Mónica Quintela, of the chaos in which our justice is found and that a real alternative is needed — the PS has not yet realized that it does not help to throw money on the Portuguese unless the problems are solved. I would therefore like to ask the PSD what they intend to do to really face the current situation of all sectors of justice, not just some. I am speaking in particular of the records and notaries, of the judicial officers, of the prison system, of the courts and of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. We have had several debates on all these issues — in one we agree on solutions, in others not so much — but I would like to ask the PSD where can the Liberal Initiative and the PSD start a real reform in our judicial system? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u17	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to make the request for clarification from the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Monica Quintela, it is incomprehensible, first of all, that it is only dragged that the Minister of Justice comes to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u20	We are discussing the judicial officers and she must be dragged to Parliament ; we are discussing the problem of registrations and the Secretary of State is coming to Parliament ; we are discussing the lack of conditions of the courts and the Minister does not appear in Parliament. There is indeed a problem in the Ministry of Justice. Somebody tell the Minister that she responds to Parliament. It is not in the corridors, hidden and political. So I ask you, do you know where Mrs. Minister is? Do you know where she is? Because we see the strikes in the justice sector and we hear the justice officers say they don't see them — she doesn't talk to them. on the side of the judicial police professionals, idem — she doesn't talk to them. on the side of social reintegration technicians, also, the Minister, with them, does not speak. on the side of the registrar and notarial professionals, i.e., the Minister, with them, does not speak. Madam Member, who will the Minister of Justice speak to? That's the question I leave you with. It's just that it's incomprehensible! But by now, I would like to have listened to your speech—and that is one of the questions I ask you—a fault that a part of the state of justice we have resulted from the PSD, when it was in power, has ended with courts. Some of the problems that exist were created by decisions to extinguish such proximity justice when the PSD was in power. I would like to ask the honourable Member, and it is still time to correct the statements if she does not consider that several of the problems we currently have in the justice sector also come from the wrong PSD policies. I believe that this seriousness is required of you, since on the part of the Minister, there is no seriousness or nothing, there is not even an appearance in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u21	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with the questions put by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, concerning where the Minister of Justice is located, she appears to exist, but I have not seen her. He is aware that there is, Mr, but I have not seen it. [[PSD laughter.]] Nor do I know who she's talking to, she's not with me. She hasn't talked to the PSD and, by the way, to anyone, what's regrettable. Mrs. Minister, today, you should be here. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member is quite right when he says that he is only dragged and must still embrace a bit, because the Minister does not want anything with Parliament. We've told her that several times, but I don't know if she's already noticed that this is where she's been counting. Finally, it may be that you are attending this debate at the Ministry. It was good if I were, we'd be at least more satisfied.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u23	Good-bye, Minister! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u24	With regard to the question which you raised about the PSD — and I also reply to my dear colleague, Mr Francisco Oliveira — I already knew that I was going to speak in the period of the troika, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u25	Bankruption!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u26	I have already written the questions I knew you were going to ask, because they are so predictable, Mr! They're so predictable! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] When you have no defense, you usually say the old adagio that the best defense is the attack on others—it is so predictable. But responding at the same time to the two, the PSD has been obliged — I have a memorandum of troika, which I can send out, in fact, we all have — to carry out a programme that has been made, awarded, by the PS Government, at this time, by Socrates, not the Greek philosopher, but the PS politician. [[PSD applause.]] It was not the height of Greek philosophy, it was the height of all the problems that happened in Portugal and that plunged Portugal into bankruptcy. And, therefore, the PSD has been obliged to carry out a program that the PS has made and granted. [[PS protests.]] The judicial map was in the troika. It was imposed by the troika to close courts, the fruit of what you and the PS have done, but the PSD just had to fulfill. The PSD has been obliged to rule with your program, with your memorandum. [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]] In the meantime, Mr. President, I'm not able to speak, it's too loud...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u28	Thank you. The PSD has been obliged to rule with your memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u29	Yes, yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u30	And what happened? What I was doing was that I would have to be revisited and, when revisited, the courts would be open. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] The PS has now ruled for eight years and I saw yesterday that in the 50 years of the anniversary of the PS, they boasted that there have been at least more than half a century ruling! And the country is how it is! Why didn't you open the courts? Overdue the period of the troika, why didn't they? They had margins. That is what was proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u32	Why didn't you open the courts? Why didn't they? So I knew I'd ask that. With regard to the question that it actually put, was made the package of the fight against corruption, with much of the contributions from the PSD, and was approved here, only there are no means, which was what I said there. There are no means, and there are no means, there are no laws. As much as the laws are better, there are indeed no means. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, I welcome your intervention. When we are government, when we have the knife and cheese in hand, when it is possible to govern, we can make the reform of justice,... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u34	Can we, who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u35	... we can start the measures and reforms that are required, because, at the moment, with the absolute majority of the PS, any proposal we make is voted on for failure. [[PS protests.]] This was seen by the Central Administrative Court that it is a proposal from the PSD that has been rejected, it had to go down to the Commission without a vote, but now it has been proposed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u36	You now have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the PSD on the very important issue that it brings us here today and start by saying that it is important that, in a debate on justice and the state of justice in Portugal, we realize that the PS, which boasts of ruling so many years ago, has left justice in this state. « Manuel Pinho's corruption crimes are at risk of prescribing. ' — it has been here for a few days; « Ricardo Salgado's crimes at risk of prescribing. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Right now, the speaker has posted news from the newspaper.]] That's what the PSD should have brought here today. Instead of talking for 5 minutes about nobody noticed well what,... [[PSD protests.]] ... should speak in the state of corruption, promiscuity, deslexion and destruction to which the PS has voted the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is what the greatest opposition party today should say here. It was to say, name a judge, I repeat, name a judge...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u38	You didn't hear the speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u39	Mrs. Deputy, you didn't even talk about this. How does the PSD today make a debate without speaking of this name: Ivo Rosa? How does the PSD do this?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u40	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u41	The judge who whitened dozens of crimes of « Operation Marquês» and José Socrates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u43	... the judge who obstructed the investigation of Tancos and EDP (Energy of Portugal ), all involving socialist leaders, is appointed as European Prosecutor. What does PSD say about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u44	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u45	Nothing, absolutely!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u46	What about Enough? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u47	This is the state of corruption that the country has reached. It is the state of corruption to which the country has arrived! [[Congrats from the CH.]] What the Portuguese have to know is that this level of endemic promiscuity is going to kill justice little by little, press those who are docile to the government and put those judges, judges of the Public Ministry or inspectors of the judicial police who want to investigate and cannot, because they are stopped by the compressor roll of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u48	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u49	Yes, Mrs. Member, we have to give conditions to the judicial officers, but I remind you that the PSD in the State budget did not vote in favour of the proposals of the Arrival...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u51	... to strengthen the recruitment of judges and to give dignity to the careers of the Institute of Registers and the Notary(IRN). So you can't get there now, as if the PSD didn't exist in recent years. The only party that really wanted to make justice effective, give means to justice and say that the PS was creating entropies in justice was the Arrival, with courage, when the PSD was silent about this lack of courage. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What you should have said, Madam Member, is that the Portuguese administrative courts are the slowest seconds in Europe. And there was the direct shot at the PS's bravery. In seven years, they couldn't even walk one month forward or backward. Portugal has the second slowest administrative courts in Europe and Mr. Francisco Oliveira said: « Oh, Mrs. Member, acknowledge that we have done anything. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] But they did what? Did you do what? Oh, my God! Justice is in the worst state ever and this has a name: it is PS, who are responsible for the state in which justice is in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In fact, how many parties here have approved the exceptional regime for the release of prisoners during the Covid-19?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u52	All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u53	Now you regret that. They should have Armando Vara's face spread by your banks, because he got out of prison with the approval of many of those here today. That's what we should say here: while José Socrates is running in Ericeira, while Ricardo Salgado is at home looking at this debate and laughing at us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u54	Drinking beer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u55	... while that happens, the PS is quiet and comfortable and we're doing here know what? Paying taxes for these gentlemen will continue to enjoy us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's what you should have said, but no. We have a PSD that prefers not to talk about Judge Ivo Rosa, the other parties think they shouldn't talk, but we won't shut up about this. The endemic promiscuity that marks Portuguese justice, that attacks each other to the detriment of others and that the PS machine has attacked up to exhaustion and even stagnate and even strangle, for us, will not pass. They may have many, perhaps many, and some may let go of them, but this country needs justice and we will not stop fighting, until justice is independent, pray to whom it hurts, even if an old Prime Minister has to go to jail and pay for the crimes he has committed. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u56	The Bureau shall not register any entries.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u57	I'm talking more! I'll talk to you later!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u58	Mrs Marta Temido of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On a day when the PSD triggers a legislative debate on justice — and without prejudice to the work we have done in the Commission and which have led to the Minister's being here twice in the past month — it is appropriate that we start by generally analysing the recent evolution of policies in this area. This analysis can be done from various perspectives and considering various dimensions, but one of the essential elements of analysis is certainly the confidence of citizens in the justice services. However, this confidence depends on the social perceptions of the performance of the system, especially as regards its efficiency, i.e. the results achieved in relation to the available means. In this regard, it is worth remembering that the latest report on the European Judicial Systems of the European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice in the Council of Europe, on 2020 data, showed that the means affecting our system are in line with, or even above, the 40 countries that were analysed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, in 2020 Portugal had, for every 100 000 inhabitants, more judges, more judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office and more lawyers than the European median. The number of first instance courts per 100 000 inhabitants was therefore 3, 19 by 2020, higher than the average European of 1, 50. And the rate of use of technologies in the functioning of the judicial system was also higher than the median: 8, 1 to 6, 5. However, in indicators such as the time required for pending processes to be solved, the results, even reflecting the ruptures of the covid-19, were not yet satisfactory. In the courts of first instance, this time was higher than that of the European median in all jurisdictions. In the courts of second instance, the position of the country was already better than the European median, in processes of a civil and commercial nature, but it was not yet in criminal proceedings and, above all, it was not in administrative processes. And in the higher courts, the position of the country was better than the European median in all jurisdictions. The results of the Statistics of Justice — now a compliance with the Statistics of Justice, which are 40 years old this year — concerning the second quarter of 2022 showed, however, that the number of pending cases in the first instance courts in Portugal has steadily declined since 2015 and is the lowest of the last 30 years. They also showed that the average duration of the finished processes has also been decreasing, in all jurisdictions and procedural areas, and that even in the area where there are worse results — the administrative and fiscal — there has been a decrease of more than 20 % in the pending cases in the first instance between 2015 and 2021. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] These are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, numbers. We want to bring them in, because we know that we need to continue working to improve them, but in this, as in other sectors, we do not see ourselves in the theory of chaos, we do not see ourselves in the theory of justice falling to pieces, we do not regret that justice must be done by our own hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are with those who, every day, work to improve the efficiency of the justice system...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u60	You don't notice anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u61	... and that is why we will continue to monitor, in accordance with the mandate given to us, the work of the Government, on the one hand, by maintaining the strengthening of means that justice needs to fulfil its role, as happened in the State Budget for 2023, which provided for the highest initial allocation for the sector, as happened in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which affected EUR 267 million, EUR 116 million in 2023, to the justice and economic component and business environment, in the dimension of the digital transition, as happened in the requalification and modernization of the building, in which various works were carried out, including those of the installation of the National Anti-Corruption Mechanism ( MENAC ), and in which some EUR 31 million are in progress, this year - such as those of the Family and Minor Court of Aveiro, those of the Beja Justice Palace or those of energy efficiency in more than 20 registration services. I am also referring to the measures that have been taken to strengthen the human resources of justice, in which the multi-annual planning of admissions to the various careers, which has already included staff of the Judicial Police, the Directorate-General for Social Integration and Prison Establishments, the IRN (Instituto des Registros et do Notariado) and the staff of the judicial officers, which has led to the recruitment of more than 1000 new workers by the Ministry of Justice in the last 12 months. On the other hand, our responsibility as Parliament is also to monitor the necessary reforms and, in this respect, I would like to point out, very generally, three areas: administrative and fiscal justice, in which several amendments are being implemented, such as the system of administrative and financial autonomy of the Higher Council of Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals; the area of prevention of corruption and criminal justice, in which the establishment and initiation of the MENAC activity is a given step — and the strengthening of the budget of the Judicial Police is characterized by the director of the institution himself as a budget that goes towards the future, finally; and also the area of social reintegration and prison establishments, in which the strategy of gradual closure of the Lisbon Prison Establishment and in which there is much delay to recover, to withdraw the country from the references that are still made to it in reports of the Committee on Prevention of Torture. And it is, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because there is much to do and justice is essential to democracy that this is a debate that we will have and that we will do, with all seriousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u62	The honourable Member has three requests for clarification. Question is answered together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u63	Yes, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u64	All right. To make the first request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marta Temido, allow me to tell you that your intervention did not pass a political propaganda exercise and it seems that you did not hear your leader on the anniversary of the PS yesterday. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u66	You must fight populism and demagogy! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] And I say this, Mrs Deputies, because the reality of justice is quite different from what we intend to believe. I'm sorry to say what's wrong, or what's wrong, because that's all the Portuguese feeling. As I said well, we all know that the Minister of Justice was very proud of the State budget for 2023 in the area of justice because she said it was a strengthened budget and that it was possible to make a strong investment in the judiciary ( PJ ). But despite the good intentions of the Minister — we are already used to them — what we have found is that very little or nothing has been done for the sake of the armed arm of justice, and the result of the incapacity of the government is in view of everyone. Since 1 April the Judicial Police has been operating in mere file hours, from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m., as if it were a mere public distribution. Because the judicial police inspectors had no alternative but to advance to a strike for all the additional work, and this for time indefinite. This strike, which could have been avoided, but was not, simply because of the Government's inertia — because the Government is closed to dialogue — has on the basis of claims that are fair, that the PSD is accompanying and that have already come from many and many years of socialist governance. [[PSD applause.]] It is not acceptable for the Government to take three years to regulate the Professional Statute of the Judiciary Police, a law which was, in fact, passed by the Government of Antonio Costa on the eve of the 2019 legislative elections. This is serious because they are about to regulate extremely important matters for the operation of the judicial police. But more serious than this is the lack of regulation of the supplementary work, the updating of the value/time of the supplementary work. And as long as this does not happen, just because of the government's inertia, the inspectors of the Judicial Police are receiving around €3, 61 for overtime hours. This value is below the minimum value / time allowed by law, is unworthy for those professionals and is a clear violation of the most basic and basic constitutional rights and principles. [[PSD applause.]] I will therefore conclude by asking the honourable Member whether this is the justice that the honourable Member spoke about, because this is not the justice that the Portuguese want, this is not the justice that the PSD wants, and this is not the justice that the PSD defends for our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u67	Mr André Ventura has the floor to make a request for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u68	Mr President, Mrs Marta Temido, I will read these words to you: the judges are full of words, bureaucracy, plans and promises. This needs more speed, more energy, more action. Therefore, the line of action that we defined until April 2024 can be summed up in this idea: enough talk. » Stop talking. When an association of judges reaches this point, I think that the Member, rather than the propaganda exercise she did there, should think about what is so bad in justice that it leads to laziness in the courts, to the discontent of everyone, from the judicial police to the judicial sector, passing by the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office. You know, Mrs. Member, when was the last recruiting for registrants and conservators?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u69	I know, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u70	It was in 1996! And for registrar officers in 1999. It was the last reinforcement there was. The PSD governments have passed, the PS governments have passed, the PS governments have returned, the PSD has returned, and the reinforcement has continued to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u71	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u72	I would therefore like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, whether you think these professionals are, or not, as Mr Francisco Oliveira has just said, protesting legitimately. Because either the Judicial Police or the registrar, the Conservatives or the judicial officers, who are going through the most difficult situation of their lives, call for a meeting of the Minister of Justice, and the Minister of Justice, in addition to not appearing in Parliament, does not appear at any meeting. And I ask you if you think this is a way of governing justice in Portugal, and if you, as a Member of the Socialist Party, are able to point your finger at a socialist ruler — the Member who has already been a ruler — and say that this is no way to govern justice. What the Minister has done is not how to govern justice. But I could not help but ask you something else, because it extends to the entire PS Parliamentary Group and to the Government, and will certainly have an echo in many of our compatriots. Last month, the European Court decided that those injured by the bank, or BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banco Internacional do Funchal, SA ) and others, would not be entitled to compensation. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots, many of them without great resources, put their savings on these banks, and lost everything. It was important to know whether the PS thinks it is, or not, justice to return everything to them as well. Or at least give them back what they were wrong about. The honourable Member will certainly not respond by the government, but will be able to respond by the Socialist Party's bench. The arrival will bring to this Parliament a proposal for the return and compensation of all those who lost money at BES and BPN (English Business Bank ) because they were deceived by criminals.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u74	Some died in prison in South Africa, but we expected them to be here until the end of their lives. I wonder if the PS will be available or not to ransom these people who have lost everything for Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u75	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PCP bench, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marta Temido, we have listened carefully when she made a set of considerations and when she brought us the commitments and the measures that the Government intends to adopt or will adopt. But the truth is that this does not deserve credibility on the part of the justice sector in general. And it doesn't deserve, because the PS has not only had time and opportunity to have done differently, as they have written in the law. I would therefore like to remind you of the proposals of the CFP which were approved in State budgets and which were not implemented. That is to say, it is even more serious, because the government not only does not solve, as it disrespects the law and does not implement the measures that would solve these problems. Let's see. The remuneration status of notary registries professionals, is a lie, has never happened, has also been registered in law; the complete review of special careers in the area of justice, remained in the Budget in 2018 and was back in 2019, with stipulated deadlines and everything, but it was a lie, the government has not implemented; training with human resources and logistics of the courts today are in a situation where, for example, they are relatively open competitive procedures for judicial officers; the procedural recovery supplement, was in 2020 and 2021 in the State budget, and the PS has not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u77	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u78	The Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada, of which today the Minister speaks, has been delayed for years by the negotiations around the land. This is a prison establishment which has no conditions, as we well know, and as they have already had occasion to observe. The recruitment contest for prison guards was held in 2018 and 2019, on a proposal from the CFP, registered in the State budget, and was not implemented. Therefore, the words of the Socialist Party, the words of the government, but also those of the right, which always came together at the time of cutting, have no credibility for any of the workers in the area of justice! This is the case to say, Madam Member: say a measure that has been implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u79	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Marta Fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u80	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, I think I have announced several measures which have been implemented and which are translated into numbers. On the question of the judicial officers, I would like to recall that there is indeed a note to the social communication last November that says that the negotiations have been interrupted. Therefore, when there is no agreement between the parties to conclude the negotiation process, it is not possible to conclude it. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] However, it is clear that there is a long way to go on in this matter. On the question posed by Mr André Ventura on the Institute of Registers and the Notary, I would like to point out that it has already been said several times by the Minister of Justice in this House that a procedure for the recruitment of 50 Conservatives and 249 judicial officials is under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u81	We're 300!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u82	Therefore, the answer is within this time limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u83	And how many do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u84	With regard to the question of the Judicial Police, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, I would like to say that what has been attempted is a plan which has been recognised by the Judicial Police itself and which goes through the multiannual planning of admissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u85	That's not what I heard in the morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u86	Finally, with regard to the allegations of propaganda by the honourable Members. Members, I would like to speak of the Council of Europe European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice, of European statistics : Portugal, an example in access to justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u88	This is what I'm talking about, from another reality, which is true and credible and which is not just full of black dots, as they want to paint. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u89	And this is what you like, posters!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u90	Only 10 people hit palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u91	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, as far as possible, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the debate on justice, we will talk about the most forgotten, the invisibles of the judicial system, which are children and young people. I'm talking about 6500 institutionalized children and young people. I speak of the approximately 2000 arrests by unlawful conduct by young people during the year 2022. I'm talking about 120 young people in educational centres. And I'm talking about why and for what? I'm talking because these numbers can't leave us indifferent. Because in an aging country, children and young people should deserve all our care and support. I speak because these children and young people are the victims and the mirror of a failed state, children and young people protected by various ministries, studied by dozens of bodies, subject to various committees, theme for various working groups, under and covered by various systems, inspiring various projects, source of various cooperation agreements, accompanied by various intervention teams, reason for being of several institutes and organizations. And despite all this, RASI data ( Annual Internal Security Report ) are even more worrisome than previous data, noting that the security forces have recorded an overall increase in the school environment of more than 35 %, of a criminal nature of more than 93 %, 3 %, juvenile delinquency has increased by 50 %, 6 % and group crime also has an increase of about 20 % of the recorded occurrences. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you may find that most young people with a protective measure do not need to intervene in juvenile justice. However, two in three young people referred to juvenile justice suffered abuse, ill-treatment or serious neglect, making pre-existing social vulnerabilities evident. Of the young people who committed the most serious facts in the educational protection process, 70 % had previous promotion and protection processes and more than 60 % came from residential reception measures in the context of this system. That is, they were already in charge and under the supposed protection of the State. [[PSD applause.]] This leads us to conclude that the system of promotion and protection is neither prepared nor equipped with resources to be able to respond effectively when it comes to young people with signs of disturbance, serious behavior and who need specialized intervention to prevent recurrence. And if we associate mental health problems with this fact, the situation becomes even more complicated. The reduction in the application of measures of placement in educational centres over the last few years could lead us to think of a decline in crime. But that's not what we checked out. Because you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced daily with reports of group crime, and its increase and contour is becoming increasingly uncontrollable. What happens is the non-existence or the untimely denunciation of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the criminal police. And why? For reasons of stigma, this situation is always delayed, and it insists on keeping young people in the system of promotion and protection that, given their inability, is not effective at the level of effective behavioural change, especially in the prevention of recurrence. In turn, the educational protection action, yes, is guided by the principle of the youth's best interest, with a view to their education for the right and inclusion in community life in a dignified and responsible manner. We stress that the principles that guide educational protection action move away from criminal intervention. The right to protect education is removed from punitive character, based on a judgment of the need for education for the right and on the right of young people to create conditions that allow the development of their personality socially responsible. The legitimacy of educational protective measures is aimed at the full development of the young person in accordance with the requirements of Articles 69. o and 70. the Constitution, when recognizing children and young people the special right to protection, with a view to their integral development, at the physical, psychic and emotional level and the realization of their social and cultural rights. [[PSD applause.]] The devaluation of the signs and the idea of stigmatization of the child or young person constitute some of the causes for the lack of communication to the competent entities of situations of aggression, violence and disobedience that end up between walls. The worsening of these behaviors, often without timely and effective intervention in the protective system, brings young people to the level of juvenile justice. And so it is called for intervention to protect as a means of late solution to problems, often resulting from social or mental health vulnerabilities, which are based on criminal practices. Thus, we witnessed a kind of substitution of the protection model by the protective model, due to inefficiencies and inefficiencies of that one. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it goes against all the reporting and legitimizing principles of State intervention with the child or young person. [[PSD applause.]] This is because there is no strategy for protection and protection systems, no conciliation. They live from turned back. The system shows serious deficiencies: there is a complete and comprehensive, timely diagnosis, which covers the individuality of the young person, with his personal, health and family specificities; the assessment of the degree of need for education for the right is almost always, late and out of the youth's previous life history. It was understood that the PSD was urgent to look at these children, victims and dragged for years with measures and institutionalizations, to end up in the protective system or even in the prison system. So, from an early age, the State has withdrawn children from families to protect them, educate them and accompany them in their adolescence, and still in their charge, to commit crimes? What can you call this unless I fail? So the state educates them for crime? For our humanist and social-democrat root, this is a vital issue. [[PSD applause.]] Cognizant of the failure of these models, unformed and concerned, we requested, last March, the constitution of a sub-commission to focus on the phenomenon of juvenile delinquency and to analyze the architecture of the current protective systems and to protect, lost in the dispersion of guardianships and bodies, so as to make the action of the State more effective. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS led this request, claiming that there were already many committees to deal with this matter, there were even working groups and the government had even set up another committee of analysis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u93	Always talking about working groups!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u94	But what led the PSD to make this proposal was precisely the existence of this dispersed, ineffective and incommunal system between themselves, which leads to these children and young people being of all and, after all, not being of anyone. [[PSD applause.]] The Government, on 8 November 2022, through Dispatch No. 12 853, creates another working group, this time to promote the design and application of a uniform model for the assessment of danger and the improvement of the system of promotion and protection for children and young people in danger. According to the plan, this structure should have already submitted a report by the end of February, with an action plan aimed at improving the system. It is required that the PSD hearing of this group should take note of the said report, which should be ready in February and which so far is not known, what has the PS done? It also led the hearing of this working group. What are you afraid of? What moves you to chum these demands? We well know that children and young people here do not vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u96	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about children and young people, it is not enough to show concern, it is not enough to do studies and more studies, it is not enough to wait for reforms that are not done. When it comes to children and young people, the keyword is urgent. Emergency! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u97	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u98	It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. There are 6500 institutionalized children, there are 2000 detentions of young people only in 2022, there are 120 young people in educational centres who can no longer wait, who expect more of the state and expect more of their representatives, in matters which should be priority, consensual and unifying efforts for their solution. The PSD challenges everyone here once and for all to build a reform that effectively protects, prepares and forms young people for a full exercise of their responsible citizenship. Not to do so is to violate its most elementary rights and fail in the main function of the State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u99	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot continue to hear so many and so many times that justice is a strong justice with the weak and weak with the stronger. This is evidenced - every time we connect the televisions and we verify that cases of corruption—even to the highest instances, former governors or bank representatives, among so many other examples that we could give — continue to drag each year, without justice for their injured, or even less, without reparation in other areas, such as domestic violence, environmental crimes, animal protection, among so many other dimensions of our society, which generate not only controversy as social apprehension. But today there is a particular area of justice of which I would like to speak to you: the laziness of administrative justice. When we have policies of planning the territory in conflict with the fight against climate change, when we find that in the area of housing, construction, among so many others that affect individuals, we continue to have a bureaucracy and a wall between access to justice and citizens, there is indeed a reform that has been delayed. Today, it would indeed be important not only to have the Minister of Justice here as in the past year, where there is an absolute majority and, therefore, with absolute power, that she also had the absolute duty to make the change that justice lacks in our country. Even last week, the Council of Ministers approved a series of diplomas that bring important advances in administrative justice, some of which the NAP has even defended, such as the administrative and financial autonomy of the Higher Council of Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals, which opens the door to a significant strengthening of means and technical advice in administrative courts. However, we are still far from achieving what this reform should require. Despite the legislative authorization that has been made to amend the ETAF ( Statute of the Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals ) and that will make a serious contribution to improving the efficiency and speed of the courts, we do not yet know, and nothing has been clarified, if there will be, for example, specialized subsections of function in the administrative central courts. This would be a way of ensuring a response, not only to the congestion of administrative justice, but especially to its increasing complexity, particularly in the areas of public procurement or the law of sport. Nor do we know, and nothing has been said, as regards the access contests to the career of judge of the Supreme Administrative Court or of the central administrative courts. The validity of one year, currently expected, is limited to the complexity that we so often verify in the duration of the curricular processes. And less has been said about the transparency of court decisions at first instance. The GRECO ( Group of States Against Corruption ) and the Working Group on Administrative and Fiscal Justice recommended this measure as a way not only to ensure the transparency of the courts, but also to ensure full access to the case law of the ETAF, which is fundamental and indispensable, up to the exercise of certain procedural faculties. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the long-term and necessary reform in justice, training and lack of resources have also fallen short of the necessary reform. On the one hand, we have already heard about the problem of justice officers, but on the other hand, measures such as environmental training or animal protection, or even in the formation of domestic violence, are measures that have been proclaimed, but have not yet come out of role. With regard to the various agents who, on a day-to-day basis, promote justice, and to conclude, the lack of the rights of their own lawyers, is an old matter which has been discussed several times in this House but which remains unresolved. It is a question of dignity, and we will soon discuss here a number of initiatives that will discuss access to dignity in justice, particularly in support of disease and maternity. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not fair that we treat both the judicial officers and the other peers who guarantee the citizens' access to justice without any dignity, under the hat of the liberal profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u101	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A short time ago, Mrs Marta Temido made an intervention around a very convenient message, a selective choice of numbers, but what concludes from this intervention is the following: firstly, it is found that the PS is content with a median justice; secondly, it gives reason to those who are our critics, because if there are more means, if there are more people, the PS will certainly not blame people for the real chaos in which our justice is. It doesn't go, because the real culprit is just one, the real culprit is just the PS, because it does a bad management of our justice and makes a bad management of our country. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS does not give any real importance to our justice and it is not to be underestimated. A fully independent and functional justice system has a tremendous positive impact on national and foreign investment and contributes to increased productivity, competitiveness and wealth production in the country. There is a proven correlation between an efficient, quality and independent judicial system and the attraction of foreign capital for investment, as necessary for a country like Portugal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that justice and the judicial system have an important role to play in the production of wealth. For this reason, we again thank the PSD for bringing the issue of justice to the plenary and only regret that this debate is not carried out with more up-to-date data on the Portuguese judicial system, since we still find ourselves a few weeks from the publication of EU Justice Scoreboard for the year 2023. However, today the debate has gained particular relevance, since we are all aware of the measures that were adopted last week at the Council of Ministers with the aim of improving the efficiency of administrative and fiscal justice. The data are clear and, year after year, they reveal what all Portuguese dealing with the courts already know: there is a serious problem in administrative and fiscal justice. As the Portuguese authorities also know, the European institutions are aware of this and for the same reason the measures now presented are due to the commitment the Portuguese State has made to receive the instalments of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u103	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u104	Although little is separated from the measures presented last week by the Executive, it is worth the Minister of Justice to be once again present in this debate, because it would be important to question a number of things. First of all, what concrete results does the Government expect with exceptional and temporary arrangements to encourage the extinction of the institution in cases that run in administrative and fiscal courts? Secondly, why an exceptional and temporary regime? And thirdly, how does the government plan to evaluate the effectiveness of this measure and what results will it consider to be successful? One of the other measures already announced will be a simplified procedural form which will be applied on an experimental basis in a pilot court for shares of less than € 5000. When this pilot project is in operation, it would also be important to understand what metrics will be used to assess the effectiveness of the measure and when it can be extended and definitely implemented. One thing we have concluded: this government is pro gramme in experimental measures. Mrs. Members, theoretically, the legislature can still last for another three and a half years and the truth is that a process which now enters an Administrative and Fiscal Court will not, according to all the statistics and certainly, be completed in this Legislation. This is the dimension of the inefficient monster that the Socialist Party has created in recent decades. It is not possible to say that there is an administrative jurisdiction, when the times practiced in justice are these. The monster of administrative jurisdiction is also the reflection of a State which is also a monster. A large state, with ramifications in all sectors of society, is a state that, invariably, will have high levels of litigation, because, where the state enters, there is no efficiency and speed, there is morbidity and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the average citizen, justice is essentially suffering from two problems: justice is slow, justice is expensive. If we were to address only one of these points — the slowness of justice — we must now speak of another major obstacle to the realization of justice: its cost to the citizens. The Government is proud to have implemented a dematerialized system for applications for legal aid. We're in 2023 and it's only now that this has been implemented. Apart from the anachronistic algorithm that Mrs. Minister of Justice called 'artificial intelligence', but which basically only chooses business names between two mutually exclusive variables, we can see, with this example, the delay in the digitisation of justice, when only now has been digitized the request for judicial support. Focusing on the main issue, the Minister of Justice himself acknowledged 15 days ago that the procedural costs regulation can be a barrier to the realization of justice and promised a reform until the end of 2023. Is the government committed to meeting this deadline? by the precedents, we have serious doubts. To that end, it is enough to remind us that, last month, the Liberal Initiative had to make public pressure, with the famous door that regulates the distribution of the processes, a true liberal victory that forced the government to hurry, not to be bound by any prescription of processes that run against the former Socialist Prime Minister José Socrates. [[Applause from the IL.]] Before the end, the presence of the government would also be important to clarify to us the news that has come to the public and that reveals an opening by the government to change the actions of the lawyer. What are the modifications on the table? The Advocates' Order has already stated on this matter and the Government cannot continue to listen to mucosa. You have to clarify this subject properly. All these questions will appear to be unanswered, after another lack of the appearance of the Minister of Justice — which we cannot fail to censor — which proves, once again, that the Socialist Party is not up to the responsibilities required by the absolute majority, because it does not comply with the most basic democratic rules of participation in parliamentary debates such as coming to Parliament to account, because this is where the real scrutiny is made for government activity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice very much likes to advertise, to say that the government makes it happen. Not only does the government make it happen like it's not even worthy to show up.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u108	from the Liberal Initiative, they can wait, because we will never get used to this government modusoperandi and will always be in the front line to protect the rights of citizens, and justice is one of them. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u109	The honourable Member has a request for clarification, but she has no clear time to answer it. There seems to have been a routine of asking unanswered questions. I wonder if the Socialist Party continues in this routine? [[Pause.]] It was pointed out to the Bureau that it was. All right. So you have the floor of Mrs Anabela Real of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u110	Mr. President, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, the chaos in the courts we all remember was with the implementation of the new judicial map in 2014 which removed competences, disqualified and closed courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u111	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u112	This forced the migration of millions of processes, causing the collapse of Citius, which did not allow the access of justice operators to millions of cases, which judicial officials had to insert one by one into the computer system. in this, the total amnesia of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u114	Madam Member, I am sure that there is much to be done, but the government has already completed many works in the building of the courts, prisons and urgent work in the educational centres, with others already in progress. Do you think that's not what you're doing? Oh, my God! I invite you to visit the works carried out in the Palaces of Justice of Beja, Ponta do Sol, Torres Vedras, Montalegre, Aveiro, Castro Daire,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... Alentejo Ferreira, Vila Viçosa, Oeiras, Walk, and the works of the prison establishments of Viseu, Bragança, as well as those that are on the move in Horta and Funchal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u116	We are currently engaged in the promotion of accessibility and detention spaces in various courts and in the registration and notarial institutes. Our role in monitoring government activity is to see if these works are in fact on the ground. The honourable Member cannot ignore that the Ministry of Justice has strengthened human resources in the PJ by 2026, with more than 1100 effective, at the Institute of Registers and the Notary(IRN), with 50 Conservatives and 249 registrants, and with more 111 Floristry Guards. In January 2023, the competitive procedure for admission of more than 200 judicial officers was also launched. Negotiations are taking place and we will have by the end of the year the review of the Statute of the Justice Officers, which requires a prior procedure and study. We recognize the right to strike and claims. Fair and legitimate concerns, as well as the need to value career wages, among others, will be addressed by the Ministry in the review of that Statute. This is the time of government and trade unions. The Liberal Initiative calls itself liberal, but it is against a diploma that has been expected for 20 years on the autonomy of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals. We have EUR 67 million from the PRR of justice already implemented, which represents 10 years of investment in justice. It is therefore a bad exercise of the opposition to say that the government has done nothing. In addition, the Liberal Initiative does not say what it would do and has no political alternative. So I ask you, Madam Member: do you not think there are works on the ground and political action in progress? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u117	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Leitão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The administrative jurisdiction is the one that indicates the relationship of the State and the Public Administration with the citizens. That is why it is essential to build the democratic rule of law that we are all proud to be. It is therefore necessary for administrative jurisdiction to ensure the judicial and effective protection of citizens, either at the level of access or at the level of maturity or, better, at their speed of proceedings. I note that it was a Government of the Socialist Party that removed the administrative dispute from the beginnings in which it was — yes, with the approval of the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals (CPTA) in 2002 — and which truly brought the administrative dispute of what was before for modernity. So you need to remember, bringing some of our recent history. This is how a set of precautionary measures and urgent procedures exist today in administrative justice, which exist by the hand of a Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, these measures and urgent procedures must be accompanied by means, resources, and they must always be accompanied by the necessary updates to improve the system. It is this action and these are the concrete measures that the Government has taken, through a set of inquiries, which have already been announced and which are going to meet that which has already been presented by the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction itself. To begin with, I refer to administrative and financial autonomy for the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, as the Superior Council of the Magistracy already has today. This will allow full managerial autonomy to be given to the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, allowing, for example, the hiring of advisors to the administrative courts. On the other hand, I should like to mention that this managerial autonomy obviously accompanies the total and absolute independence in the conduct of the proceedings and in the decisions that the judicial magistrates have guaranteed by the Constitution. What the ladies said. Members if the government intervenes in how these decisions are made? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u119	That is why we speak of Judge A or B, in the case, C or D, as being the government's fault, frankly, we do not understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, the Central Administrative Court of the Centre is established, announced based in Castelo Branco, which helps to divide the expectations that are in the Central Administrative Tribunals North and South. Of course it was something that had already been signaled and which is now being done and which is very important in terms of monitoring administrative jurisdiction at the level of expectations of the 2. the instance. In addition, there has been a gradual and constant increase in the judges'framework in the administrative courts and now also in the higher courts, either at the level of 2. the instance, either at the level of the STA ( Supreme Administrative Court ), precisely to follow the fact that there is more « litigation » in this area, yet outside what has been mentioned here, concerns specialization in higher courts. Today, administrative law is a very complex right, with many sub-rams, so it is essential to specialise at the level of administrative jurisdiction, which will also be created clearly, avoiding negative and positive conflicts of competence. These are safe steps, planned steps, which have not been taken to run, which are being carried out and which are certainly going to meet the objective of transforming the administrative jurisdiction in which it has to be: more efficient, more famous, more accessible and, above all, the builder of a rule of law, which, of course, our Constitution imposes on the relationship between citizens and, in particular, on the relationship between citizens and the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u120	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u121	Mr President, Mrs Alexandra Leitão, has focused her intervention on a set of measures that the Government has taken to make justice more famous. However, it is enough to go to any court to realize that what is unduly delaying the application of justice is the successive strikes of the judicial officers and, therefore, all the delays that follow. Noting from now on the interest that the Left Block has in this matter, I mean, in the head, that they are absolutely right in their claims. The honourable Member will be able to say that the Left Block is supportive of a strike that delays the courts. Let's put that towel on! This is because they are right, since it is the answer to their demands that can then unlock the functioning of the courts. I would like to ask you questions about the strike of the judicial officers in order to understand, in their various valences and in their various knowledge, the action of the Government in this matter makes sense. This is because the government says, on the claims of the judicial officials, that they are right, for example, that the procedural recovery allowance is paid for 14 months and not just for 12 months, so it accepts some of its claims for the strike. However, one of the first actions he took was judicially to determine an illegal strike that was under way. Does it make sense? Is that the opening of negotiations on the Government's side? Is that the capacity for dialogue that recognises the government? Next, I have a second question on the same subject. Recognizing that this payment of the 14-month procedural recovery allowance should exist, would it not make sense to take this step to unlock the current state of negotiations with the judicial officers? Wouldn't it be an act of negotiation? Would it not be to implement something that the government itself says is fair and that it intends to do? I ask you this very directly, because it seems to us that those who are intransigent throughout this process are not the workers, who have waited too long, but the Minister of Justice, who does not want to comply with what she herself recognizes is fair. Now, if this makes sense to you, Mrs. Member, it doesn't make sense to us. I hope, at least, that you know some art, some virtue in the position of the Minister and that you can explain it. I'm open to every explanation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u122	In reply, Mrs Alexandra Leitão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the delays caused by strikes, strikes are a fundamental right of workers, who obviously create damage, either in public services, whether in public services or in the private sector, or in the private sector. That is why strikes serve and are a right of workers. You'll never hear me say a word against that. Of course, then there are motivations that I accompany, as a Member, and other motivations, of other strikes, that I follow less. But the strike itself, as a right, will never hear me question it, even if it causes damage. That is why it was created, as a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution. With regard specifically to the judicial officers, I am going to give my opinion, but, indeed, the Minister of Justice himself has already said this: in particular, the claim that has been mentioned, specifically, is a claim that will be received and that is considered fair, but the timing of his reception is dependent on a more general review of the status of the judicial officers, who themselves have come to claim. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u124	Therefore, in this context, hoping to see the promise of the Minister of Justice fulfilled that by the end of 2023, this review will be consecrated, we are in that expectation and we have no reason to believe that this is not possible even with retroactive effects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u125	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prison system and social reintegration are the poor relatives of justice. They function as a mirror of our society and the political options of the government. Unfortunately, most of them don't want to see what this mirror hides, they don't want to know what conditions prisoners live in, and they work for prison guards and social reintegration technicians, forgetting that the prison system reveals our civilizational brand, our human dimension, and that it should correspond to something that we all were proud of,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u128	... contributing to return to society better people and breaking the cycle that led to crime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has scheduled this debate to reveal what this mirror hides and to monitor the policies of the government, given the bad - indeed, bad and often inhumane - portrait of the prison system in Portugal. A little everywhere, we find degrading prison conditions: overcrowding; dangerous and deficient electrical installations; exiguous cells, with inadequate humidity and temperature, with poor hygiene and privacy conditions in bathrooms; obsolete, insufficient and inadequate material resources; safety equipment, cars and collective housing that do not respect existing international standards; establishments where food, furniture and bed linen are of poor quality, where there is a little lack of everything, even the most basic, such as medical care, access to vaccination and mental health care. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about prisons with degrading and inhuman conditions. These are examples of the establishment of Ponta Delgada, the establishment of Lisbon or the chains of Aveiro and Coimbra, which in September 2022 were considered by the European Court of Human Rights as inhumanes, leading to a new condemnation of Portugal, with the payment of €26 000 to the prisoners. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in view of all the miserable current picture of our prison system, which is a system that does not offer any conditions of dignity to citizens who are in a situation of deprivation of liberty, awaiting trial or serving prison sentences, or conditions for those who work there. The political diagnosis and weaknesses of infrastructures, human resources and material and financial resources, resulting from the government's de-investment, have been widely evident in the various reports of the Ombudsman's Office and in the 2021 report of the National Preventive Mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more real mirror on the current situation than is the result of these reports. In addition to the urgency and the need for reform of the network of prisons, these reports also point to three other relevant issues which the Government has neglected. On the question of overcrowding cells, which exist in our country, most of the establishments, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it houses more prisoners than the planned lot and does not comply with the United Nations minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners, the so-called « Rules of Mandela », which recommend avoiding the lodging of more than one person per cell. A second dimension, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it concerns the de-investment of the Government in human resources. The lack of human resources in the prison system is shocking. There are no effective forces in the body of surveillance, both at the level of the prison guards and at the level of the chiefs. There is a lack of technical reeducation with specialized training. This chronic lack of staff, coupled with the aging of the prison guard's body and professional technicians — with an average age of over 50 — is serious because it compromises the development of rehabilitation and social reintegration programmes, and the fulfilment of the objectives and mission of the DGSP ( Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have been back eight years, continue to regulate numerous important matters for prison guards, such as household income supplement, performance assessment, among other measures. You've been back eight years, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the prison guards are still waiting for a new professional status. [[PSD applause.]] It is urgent to review these careers and recruit new professionals for this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the third and last dimension concerns social reintegration. Resocialization of prisoners is one of the most important tasks of the execution of the prison sentence. Also in this area, the government is failing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It was already time for the government to move forward with a new social reintegration agenda, which really bets on the aspects of health, vocational training and employment. It is urgent to create an agenda for investment, vocational training for prisoners and prison work, with fair remuneration. It is urgent to create an agenda that bets on prisoners' access to education, training and work as a decisive factor for their professional integration. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Members, having spent more than five years approving the strategy of re-qualification and modernization of the prison system 2017 - 2027, we find that much is to be achieved. Moreover, the Government did not even present, as it should, the balance sheet for the implementation of this plan. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the prison park, the criteria for the assignment of prisoners, chronic de-investment in human resources and social reintegration are consensually recognized as very relevant to the achievement of the reintegration objectives. In all these areas, as we see, the government has been systematically failing. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the mirror and portrait of the prison system and social reintegration in Portugal are very bad. And what the government does, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! The government continues to act like Narcissus, ignore this reality and refuse to see beyond the mirror, and fail to fulfil the function of coming to Parliament to account. It's all very bad, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u129	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS brand is the inability or lack of political will to solve the problems, and this debate has not succeeded in misleading it. It's too obvious. We have already had occasion to recall the measures which were included in the State budgets, on a proposal from the CFP, and which would have resolved this situation in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. They have been approved, but the PS government has never implemented them. They were proposals to allocate the means to the courts and criminal investigation, proposals for the system of enforcement of penalties, for the different professional categories and for the revision of special careers, and for the recovery of remuneration. The PS did not simply want to implement any of these measures, it did not want to solve the problems and it led us to the situation in which we are today. Above all, now, the PS and the Government have the undoubtedness of placing the burden of negotiation on the side of judicial officials and integrating the procedural recovery supplement into the maturity, which has already been entered into in the State budget. It is not given the rascal justification that the review of the status is expected, that it is something that does not happen either and that nothing has to do with the integration of the supplement. What has to be done is not to make excuses not to negotiate, but rather, once and for all, to make the promotions that are due and incorporate this supplement into maturity. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u131	It is not possible to maintain this position; it is inappropriate. They cannot only be compromises at rhythms incompatible with the situation that is experienced and a realization that is null: everything is announced, but nothing is seen. There are so many contradictions. The Government and the PS can speak well in their priorities, in their policies to combat domestic violence, but then they have no means to implement legislation, there is no means for electronic surveillance. When they speak in the fight against corruption, then they do not give way to criminal investigation. That's not enough words! The slow functioning of the courts, the strangulation of the media, the small size of the peace judges, the insufficient legal support and the high value of the costs give a justice that is not for everyone. There are two justices in Portugal : one for the poor and one for the rich. There is a justice for those who have high economic and other resources for the common citizen, who lives from their work and who so many times ceases to use their interests and rights, because they simply do not have money. This is a class justice, which, not being speedy, not being accessible, not being equal to all, cannot be considered justice. This class policy — in which there is always money for a number of economic groups, where there is always room for more tax benefits, but when it comes to valuing workers and their careers, it always invokes the right accounts and the rules of deficit, debt, among others — also shows itself in the way in which the workers of justice themselves are treated, who have rightly claimed justice for those who work in justice. The situation in the courts is intolerable and unsustainable. Judicial officials who guarantee the daily functioning of the courts have their professional situation deteriorating and an increasing workload. We are talking about unworthy salaries: whoever enters, at the moment, for the career, starts to earn 854 € gross. The process recovery supplement is not integrated. If more than 75% of the justice officers are over 50 years old and the courts have already lost 2500 employees, it is easy to see the practical result of this. This adds a degraded judicial park, with obsolete means and without specialized technical support. It can't be! This situation denies justice, objectively, to whom it works and to whom it resorts. Let us look at the register sector: there are, in large measure, more than two hundred Conservatives and more than 1500 registrar officers. Tomorrow, there will be many more, and this only means more closures. in the last 20 years, 2000 workers have left and none have entered. In several conservatories, scattered by this country (the ones that do not close), there is computer material over 20 years old. They still use Windows 7. It is necessary, once and for all — and it is not with conversation! — move forward with the revision of the single pay table of the career, which is a cross-cutting problem and which also prevents the government, when opening the tenders, from seeing completed. It is necessary to pay the allowance for failures that is expected of all those who work with payments and have that responsibility. Nor has it been attributed — even though, once again, the State budget for 2021 specifically envisages it — the transfer of unexpended balances for this purpose. In the criminal investigation and in the judicial police, which today strikes, inspectors only want their work, exercised outside the normal hours of operation, to be paid as determined by the law on supplementary work, and not to €3, €61 per hour, as is currently done. This is unacceptable! There is also a lack of specialized means and techniques. We have the problem of the officials of the Integrated Criminal Information System, who did not switch to the career as a specialist of the scientific police, even meeting the conditions. We have a system of imprisonment and reintegration—it has already been said and a thousand times remembered here—that shames us and is degrading to a state that is said to be based on the dignity of the human person. We have prison guards without promotions, no valuations. Up to 2025, 30 % to 40 % of the effective shall be retired. Without solving professional problems, there will be no replacement of this failure. We have establishments in deplorable conditions, with overcrowding of cells, which is something that cannot be accepted. The reintegration technicians do not have the conditions to do their work, to implement the programmes that implement the end of this all, which is social reintegration. Next year, 27 electronic surveillance technicians will be released, much less effective to do surveillance. There's no way. The reintegration programmes, particularly those that are applied to domestic violence aggressors — a topic so often spoken of — are no longer applied, because there are no means to do so. Let us consider the concrete consequences of these options. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the government can make all the ads you want, because it doesn't convince anyone. He cannot convince anyone for his own responsibility, because he had the occasion, because he had the means, because he had concrete proposals, because he had the law on his side to carry out these announcements. What he does today is simply putting other interests in front of the interests of justice. « Whoever doesn't want to be a wolf, doesn't see his skin». Whoever doesn't want to be PSD, who doesn't want to be compared with right-wing policy, then don't exactly do what was done by right-wing policy, which is to degrade justice, degrade public services, make real cuts in income. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u132	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister of Justice... [[At the moment, the speaker leaned from the pulpit and looked at the government bench.]] No, there is no Minister on the government bench and there is very little justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u134	Hey, populist! Is that for the news? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u135	That is one of the problems of this debate and one of the problems of the country. If the Minister of Justice were here, for example, we could have a debate on specific cases of failure to apply justice in our country. I am going to give an example of something that should even be caressed by a government that says it defends speedy justice, particularly in domestic violence. Let's see what happens in the Integrated Specialized Section of Domestic Violence of the Port: at the end of last year, Ms. Procurator, President of the DIAP ( Department of Investigation and Criminal Action) of the Port, who was also responsible for this specialized section, reported that there were, due to lack of response, until October 17, 1732 orders to comply, 2214 papers for dealing or joining processes, 2515 processes not moved more than three months ago, 1040 processes not moved more than six months ago and 255 processes not moved more than one year ago. One explanation for this happened, she said, was that she had seven prosecutors, but only five judicial officials. I will repeat: I had seven prosecutors, but only five judicial officials. However, any document from the Ministry of Justice says that for each prosecutor there must be at least two judicial officers. in this case, we had 7 prosecutors and not the 14, not 10, but 5 judicial officials. We wonder why justice is wrong? Here's an answer. That's why the justice officers are on strike. What does the Minister do? Don't even talk to them. He says he even recognizes the seriousness of his claims, which is next to what they want, but does not implement them. Now, we know that he will probably promise by the end of 2023 what, since the beginning of 2023, should already be in force. The same is true of social reintegration technicians. Tell the Minister that she understands the need to review her career, but only there for 2024, because now it seems that the problem does not arise. We look at the strike at the additional work of the judicial police inspectors and see how the state of justice is in our country: these professionals, specialized elements, judicial police inspectors, earn 3, 61 € / hour, for every extraordinary hour. If they wanted, for example, to work on a fast food network, at the end of the week, they would gain more. If they wanted to do cleaning jobs, they would earn more. If they wanted to work on a glass of any restaurant, they would earn more. This is how the Ministry of Justice is paying for the additional work of the judicial police inspectors. So the question is: have you understood why the Minister of Justice is not present? It is because you have no answer to these specific cases. Justice in Portugal is a delay; it is a delay which denies access to justice, which denies justice to its own workers and which, in doing so, is jeopardizing democracy. A Minister of Justice who has escaped this debate is therefore in line with this state. It will respond, and this government too. We will not let them go without that responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u137	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the very important fact that we have an effective strategy for victims, I would like to recall that the PS Government Programme is clear when it bets on strengthening the multidisciplinary support offered to victims of crimes, in partnership with public and private entities, and in liaison with the judicial system. Today, we can talk about the implementation of the first strategy for victims of crimes, in line with that objective, and not in a working group that already has competences assigned to other committees. The working group created involves the governmental areas of the Internal Administration, Justice, Finance, Parliamentary Affairs, Science, Technology and Higher Education, Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and Health, involves the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Commission on Protection of Victims of Crime, the Portuguese Victim Support Association, the Child Support Institute, the Association of Women Against Violence, the Union of Alternative Women and Response and two academics who specialize in victimology, in order to adopt an integrated approach to the protection of victims of violence, safeguarding the rights of the most vulnerable. The working group shall submit to the Government, within six months, a proposal for a national strategy for the protection of victims of crime, which includes an action plan for each axis, for the period 2024 to 2028, and an overall governance model, by axis, ensuring an integrated planning capable of bringing together synergies between public and private sector initiatives and optimising public expenditure. This is what we need for a reality far from unique. If the victims need a response already and now, in terms of continuity of the existing responses, fulfilling the Government Programme, two protocols were signed on 8 March 2023 for the extension of the network of victim support offices installed in the districts of Aveiro and Porto Este. The existing protocols were also renewed, in the context of cooperation that supports existing offices: if currently there are eight, it is expected that by 2026, two more victim support offices are created each year, and so on. That is what is included in our Government Programme: the creation of a national network, the protection of all victims — all! — women, the elderly, disabled citizens, the LGBTI population (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex) of all victims of domestic violence. The approach must even be this: planned, integrated and multidisciplinary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u139	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In every debate we have in this House, there must always be a constant effort, of each and every one of us, to put ourselves out of these four walls and look at the debate as if we were looking at the place of the ordinary citizen who is not a legislator. There are debates in which this is easier, others in which it is more difficult. For me, in this case, it may be easier because I am not a lawyer, I am not a judicial system, I have not studied Law, and so it may be easier to give you my instinctive impression of the first reaction to the first speeches of this debate. This first reaction, which may have been — I do not know if it was — that of some of our fellow citizens who were attending this debate, is that the PSD throws the rockets, arrives grabs the canes, and the PS gets to the side. I don't swear everyone thought that, but it was the first impression I had. When the PSD, a central party to our democracy and the construction of our rule of law, comes to say, in the voice of Mrs Monica Quintela, because of the problems in justice, that no one would deny, as it is evident, nor would have as they are undeniable, that, while the citizens are still doing justice by their hands, the applause may come from your bench, Mrs Deputy, but the smiles come from another bench, because they are the ones who will catch these canes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u141	Sure! [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u142	When we have a party that suggests that it may be the citizens doing justice by their hands and we have another one that has posters on the street with images of suspects of crimes mixed with politicians, and all with a cross above, as if they were to eliminate, if one day there is someone more or less disturbed who thinks it is to him or her who is responsible for doing justice by their hands and not to justice, I want to see how everyone who does not sign that in time remains. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The risk to the rule of law is serious and this does not end well. The legislative power discusses, as its role is, the executive power takes precedence over absence, lack of appearance, and the judicial power is delayed, because it is not entirely free of guilt in these matters either. When we see, as we have seen in recent times, that the Constitutional Court has failed to change some of its own judges—and it was not the judges that we, in the legislative power, appointed, or elected, or elected, but those who are co-opted by the Constitutional Court's own judges—the example given to the rest of the country is a bad example. And he says this who never criticized a single decision of the Constitutional Court, because it is up to him to make the interpretation of our fundamental law. Of course we can say that in the European Union's Justice Assessment Panel, we are improving in some criteria, but what happens is that those on which we have no data are the decisive ones. I have in front of me figure 6 of the European Union's Justice Assessment Panel, known as the Justice Scoreboard Liberal Initiative : in 2012 Portugal took more than 800 days to resolve civil, commercial, administrative and other cases. But for 2018, 2019 and 2020, the other countries of the European Union, with the exception of Greece, have the data and we do not have the data. So we don't know if we're better, or worse, the data isn't sent. I have already asked the Minister of Justice for information, but I have not received a reply. It is not clear why there is no investment in the peace judges, so that they work faster, more humane and without judicial holidays. What we have seen in recent years is this: we have been concerned about the trade balance and the budget balance. The balance of justice had little investment and we're all going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u143	The PSD Parliamentary Group has signed up to make a request for clarification to Mr Rui Tavares, who has no time to answer. I ask the PSD Parliamentary Group if you want to keep your request. [[Pause.]] The Bureau is informed that yes, for this reason, you have the floor of Mrs Monica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u144	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares suggested that I would have encouraged the use of justice by my own hands. The honourable Member has distorted my speech. The request for clarification is this: have you heard my speech? If you have heard, you could not have made the speech you did now, Mr President. It's deplorable! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u145	You don't have time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u146	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u147	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u148	Madam President, I shall be very quick: it is to require that we be given transcription as soon as possible. I do not want to make Mrs Monica Quintela unfair, but I believe that I have heard her say: « With justice in this state, it is only for citizens to do justice by their own hands. » I will not say that you encouraged, but there that was said, it was. But the clarification is important for both of us and I don't want to make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u149	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I remember the date of September 14, 2021, in which, at a hearing in this House, the then Secretary of State for Justice, Annabela Pedroso, announced: « The IRN will be strengthened in its human resources. Competitions will be opened for 40 Conservatives and 100 registrar officers. » The PS then announced what it had been for decades was clear to all: the need for more conservatives and registrar officers. Such contests never existed. There was a new announcement on 23 March 2023, this time by the Minister of Justice himself, which says he wants to make it happen. The Minister then said that during this year, the IRN would be strengthened with more than 300 workers: 50 Conservatives and 240 registrar officers. He also said that strengthening was essential, because registration and notarial services have been in a very great effort. And he also said that the contest was urgent. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing! One more ad, but no contest. [[PSD applause.]] Once again, the Government and the Minister of Justice are failing the Portuguese. They fail, because they despise professionals who work daily to confer legal security on people's lives, on business contracts, on the development of the economy. They fail, because from advertisements, the Minister of Justice is making her propaganda, without any realisation: no contests, no realisation of other commitments made by you and your government. I am speaking of the recovery of the building, the remodelling of the installations, the digital and computer investment. I am also talking about Mr. Ombudsman and the Administrative Arbitration Centre, i.e. the correction of wage asymmetries and correction in career progressions. No one is listening to Mrs. Minister. in an attitude of prepotence and lack of dialogue, leaves conservatories closed, services lacking in various conservatories, professionals demotivated and exhausted, obliged to do their work, often under unworthy conditions — their work and at least 234 Conservatives, who are missing in conservatories, 387 registrants and specialists and 1135 registrants. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, sir. Members, it is true that the human resources deficit reaches about 2000 professionals, which is really worrying, even because this is the oldest professional class in the Public Administration, with an average age of 60 years. The Minister of Justice fails these professionals every day. Failure to review organic law, which does not. Failure in the subscription for failures, which does not attribute. Failure to create conditions for compliance with the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) in conservatory services. Failure, because it does not implement, universally, a medical program at work. Failure, because it contributes to the degradation of an essential sector of justice. The Minister of Justice fails and misses all calls. [[PSD applause.]] He missed the call for the thematic debate scheduled by the PSD, in January of this year, and today again missed this debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, eight years ago the Government of the Socialist Party has failed the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD is, and will be next to these professionals and next to the Portuguese, to build with them the alternative that the country needs so much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u151	For an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In our country, the crisis of justice is not an isolated phenomenon, but it is a symptom of a systematic crisis in our society, which is also felt at the socio-economic, political and cultural level and which has been aggravated substantially by the foolish and fatal intervention of the Socialist Party, which has led to an inconceivable and totally unusual level. Full proof of this crisis are the scandalous delays that are being seen in the courts, with processes to be dragged for more than 20 years, or the mega-processes that target power-related personalities, as is the case with José Socrates, who literally are stopped, over months and years,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... and that they translate themselves, as the Portuguese people have already realized, in a two-speed justice, passing an authentic sense of impunity. But «the blame must not die single», because the great responsible for the crisis of justice are the successive left-wing governments. By having the political and economic means to solve it, they have done nothing. Limiting itself to contradictory and incongruent legislative initiatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u154	... have led to nothing more than a dead end, which has dynamiced the credibility, quality and speed of justice. Structural measures may be needed to combat the crisis of justice, starting with the allocation in the General State Budget of the necessary economic and financial resources to address the enormous gaps in this area, relating to installations, technological and computer means, judges, judicial officials and their training. In the field of criminal courts, it is necessary to put an end to the scandal of the prescriptions and of the informal defences, without conditions to ensure the guarantees of defence of the defendants. The legislative dialogue must be halted by the continuous modification of structural diplomas in the legal system. The legal costs regime should be revised, which in practice transforms the right to justice into something strictly outside the scope of the economic power of the ordinary citizen, who cannot afford to pay the costs, placing it in the contingencies of refusing to exercise his rights in court, or unfortunately defending himself inappropriately. It was necessary for this Government to have the political courage to undertake the necessary reforms, which should be carried out in a climate of dialogue with judicial operators, but always with their participation and cooperation, in order to identify the most harmonious, adjusted and consensual solutions. No reform is possible against society and against operators, and it cannot fall into injustice, facilitation and temptation to hold judges, judicial officials and lawyers accountable for the crisis of justice. But if none of this has been done in eight years of socialism, it is not now, with a government exhausted and without capacity for action, that will be done. We have two justices: one for the common Portuguese and one for the owners of money, for the politicians who feed on power and networks of influence trafficking, as shown by the constant increase in the number of crimes linked to corruption. We must have the courage to ask whether this is the justice we want to promote for Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u155	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the PSD Parliamentary Group for the scheduling of this debate. I could not fail to make this reference, since the subject was mentioned several times during the session: we can have views on the importance of the government's presence in a parliamentary debate — surely this parliamentary group recognises that it would prefer the presence of the Minister, that is not the point we have discussed — but the one who addressed this debate made an option on the regulatory model of this agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u157	That's true! [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u158	... and made an agenda for a debate which does not require the government to be present.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u160	So we also have the ability to look at the debate and make this reference, because it is fair. The Minister of Justice, in the last month, was present in the Assembly of the Republic, in parliamentary committee, twice, and in addition, has given notice to the House, and has given the Commission, of the various visits she makes to the field, thereby seeking a strategy of closeness and direct relationship with the various judicial operators. You may disagree, believe that you should come more often to Parliament and go less often to the courts, to the educational centres, to the institutions of the IRN and to the prisons, but it is a legitimate option within the framework of your constitutional powers. It is important that it be said: the Government is not obliged to be present in this debate. I would like to say that again: it is a political option that the Minister takes and is a political option in a framework in which she has been giving clarifications in Parliament twice this month. I think it's fair that you make this note. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, this debate on justice often runs the risk of looking a bit like the movie O Dia da Marmota, Groundhog Day, in which, apparently, we are revisiting the same day several times, as if it were absolutely identical, and repeating the same arguments. Obviously, this can happen in so far as, if the problems are exactly the same, as well as how public and political actors use time for the debate, and if they do exactly the same debate, we are doomed to that. But we are not effectively condemned for this. Oppositions do not necessarily have to repeat the same mantra at all times, regardless of the facts they have changed and there must be progress which must be marked. Even when there are positive things to point out, they still can criticize what they demanded in advance. Mrs. Monica Quintela, it is strange to hear the PSD, for example, criticise the late choice by the Central Administrative Court. That is something we agree on. It is a PSD proposal and PSD should take advantage of it to greet her, because it arises in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u161	And we saluted!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u162	No, it uses it precisely to say that it is late and that it is the result of a missed strategy. I therefore believe that it is possible to build these bridges and that this is the effort that we should make, because, in fact, a citizen who always observes the same debate, with the same arguments — sometimes swindles and others, sometimes alarmed — remains with a feeling of frustration that I think we should face with concern. For the citizens waiting in the courts—yes, there are citizens waiting in the courts—for the workers waiting for the problems of their careers, this creates an area of frustration that can then be taken advantage of by those who are not truly interested in solving the problems, but to take advantage of them in a populist manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, I welcome Mr Rui Tavares from the way he underlines this risk that all those who love democracy must have the ability to avoid. It is then easy to get into the debate and do demagogy or even lie and miss the truth in the House. During this debate, as you have heard during this week many times, you have heard of the wicked government who wants to appoint a judge, who we also think is a wicked judge, for a certain European function, when it is very easy to consult the applicable legislation, to verify that before this House a list was given that resulted from a competitive procedure that ran under the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Ministry. If, in the past, the government had indeed had difficulty with these designation processes, it chose a different model. He said: « The Councils send the list with the three names, the Assembly listen to them...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u163	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u164	... and then they will be designated by the European institutions. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u165	There were three of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u166	We can discuss whether there were three candidates or not. That's another problem. You can't force people to compete either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u167	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u168	The fact is that this is a process in which the government operates only as a mailbox. He receives the names that the Higher Councils give him and deliver them here. Therefore, we can in fact make the effort not to lie to the House. We can make an effort not to tell the House that there is a will of a sovereign body to do something about which there was no other intervention than having returned the names that another body produced. As for the debate, what we have done, as I said, is possible to do this debate without always having to repeat the same mantras, always this idea of chaos, of 'nothing has done', of zero results. We do not expect the opposition to applaud and say 'yes' to everything that comes from the government. That's not your job. Its function is to be opposed and to have alternative measures. But when we do not recognize the things that actually happen, we must return to a debate in which we must remember that, in the building, there are actually works completed in 2022, with a significant volume in several courts throughout the country, as already mentioned in the debate, in previous interventions. Do not note that there are no works scheduled for 2023 and 2024, which in many courts in the country will make the difference. They will say to me: "Well, but we still have courts where there are problems. » We recognize this reality. True, there are conservatories that still have problems. Yeah, it's true. But not only do the problems not all be solved once and for all, as it must be acknowledged that there is ongoing work to overcome these same difficulties. By the way, it's no wonder the PSD hasn't asked the question you always ask. It does not, precisely, because once again today it has entered into the House today the bill of the Criminal Policy Framework Law for the Biennial 2023 - 2025. It is true that we know that here a year ago, but the parliamentary group itself supported a government that has failed twice the presentation of this proposal of the Framework Law on Criminal Policy could at least have used this debate to say: "Well, despite a delay, we recognize, however, the possibility of looking at the proposal and, looking at it, to see that there are aspects which have been useful for this debate, in particular, the subject of the link between the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the priorities of criminal policy. Do not keep on seeking. ” We have also talked about this during the debate. Let us not forget, once again, specific data, information and situations. The National Anti-Corruption Mechanism was installed during the period we are analyzing in this debate. The Judiciary Police, last year, was reinforced with 97 inspectors and has a forecast of reinforcement of 1100 effectives — I repeat, 1100! — until 2026. Investments in the amount of EUR 21 million are under way, with regard to one of the most important areas, which is technological investment, so that they can be provided with the means to do so. Indeed, listening to what we have heard in this debate, as if nothing had happened, as if everything were standing still, as if there had been no progress in a fundamental area, is not fair and does not reflect the reality of what is happening. The same can be said of the notary registers on several examples of simplification and modernisation strategies. The same can be said of measures which — here is! — were welcomed, but when they are effectively implemented, they disappear, such as the deployment of judicial study centres in the North, a measure that has long been claimed and has a very important impact on the number of justice auditors, which is much higher in terms of candidates in the North than in the South. There are several examples with which it is possible to demonstrate that it is not all solved, it is not all overcome, but there are many things in progress. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, a short time ago, said that, after eight years, we continued to stand still, nothing happened: a plot and a dantesque scenario. There are still problems to be solved, no doubt. But did we step back? Did we do services? Did we go back to the analog model instead of investing in digital? Did we do something instead of simplifying it? The answer is negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u169	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u170	Justice Scoreboard shows improvements and, after eight years, there was indeed progress. It was not possible to do everything, it is not all solved in the area of justice, as in almost all areas of governance, as it is natural in the governance of a country facing budgetary difficulties. Still, we have work to demonstrate, and that is the balance sheet that I think has to remain in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u171	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u172	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u173	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u174	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u175	Following the speech of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to ask the Bureau, if it did not mind, to distribute the call made by the European Committee on European Affairs on 19 April 2023, which says: 'a hearing of the candidates proposed by the Government as National Prosecutor' — 'a hearing of the candidates proposed by the Government to the candidate for European Prosecutor'. —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u177	... and also the news of 12 February 2021 that the Minister of Justice, at the time, Francisca Van Dunem, appointed four judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the functions of European Prosecutor, being them José António Ranito, Rui Pedro Ramos, Sandra Elisabete and Sofia Pires. As Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves knows very well, what is at stake here is not the procedure...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u178	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau to distribute and the Bureau will distribute, but now it will not make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u179	I am not going to make an intervention, Madam President. I just want to share that it is obvious that we all know the procedures of this competition, but it ends with a proposal from the Government to the Assembly of the Republic and, if the government had a little bit of shame, it would not do so in the case of Judge Ivo Rosa. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Moreira Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u180	To close this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u181	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u182	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, does he lose the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u183	For the same purpose, Madam President. In order to request the distribution of the legal framework on the appointment of judges and also now to distribute the composition of the XXIII Constitutional Government, the one which today brings up the proposal it receives from the Councils, which is not the previous government, which had to work with the previous legal framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u184	That's an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u185	The statements made in the House and the respect that the citizens who are at home owe us to those who know exactly what the applicable regime is and know exactly what the margin exists or does not exist in the proposal, must not only deserve the distribution to the members of the House, but the invitation to all the citizens who follow this debate to inform themselves that they are the Members of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what's in the law, you're missing the truth in the House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u186	Now, to close the debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, justice is at times of particular concern and, after today's debate, this certainty becomes clearer. It begins in the gripation between the agents of justice and guardianship, with strikes leading to delays and delays in numerous procedural acts, which contributes to an even greater inefficiency of this sector. The PS continues with the old argument that during the PSD government we closed the courts. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now living a true close of the courts, with the citizens far from seeing their cases solved, with thousands of delays and closed services. And in addition to this, we see the uncontrollable escalation of juvenile and group crime, revealing the complete failure of the State in the protection and support of children and young people who, despite being victims, have been called offenders. Leandro could be called, removed from parents at the age of three, placed in the care of the promotion system, i.e. the care of the state. It was institutionalized sometimes without account and knew several measures, until it ended up killing a colleague in a reception centre when he was 18 years old. I could have any other name, which is unlikely to be the son of any of us sitting here. Because they are children of poverty, of inefficacy and indifference of the state, they are children of the inability to protect and educate, they are children of indifference and social blindness, they are children of the lack of urgency of the state. They are basically children of no one, without the right to be and feel integrated into society. [[PSD Applause]] They are, above all, victims of the levels of poverty and difficulty with which their families face themselves today and long ago. Probably, however, they may not have access to justice, because judicial support calls for being reviewed long ago and only has access to justice or the very poor or the very rich. Costs are prohibitive and impediments for most impoverished citizens, even with the 90 € they will now receive, to access the justice they are entitled to. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, every year I visit these young people, every year I speak to them and the stories of their short lives are hard and long. They gather on the street in groups, walking as brothers, are inseparable. They move synchronized and rhythmically together, like Ruben and David, who did not know where they were coming from, but who had long wandered through the streets of that neighborhood. They had been adopted by the garden banks, by the animals, by whom they shared the alleys, and by the trash cans. They ran down the streets, smiled at those who gave the euro and threw peacocks as well as stones at dogs — girls and dogs fled from them at seven feet. Sometimes, on days of great luck, they would have lunch from the rest of Mr. Jorge's coffee customers. at dinner, they imagined steaks with fries, stared eggs, chocolate muse and ice cream. It was the stomach that took them to that fine restaurant, which was at three metro stations from there and that they so well knew the smells, the windows they were looking at and the corrupt people who went in sad and jolly. « One day we will have money to eat here», they dreamed. But that day took a long time to arrive. It was then that they met the Naifas, so called to walk always with knives in his pocket, which showed to scare the passersby, and for other things that the two friends did not know. "Look there, kids," said Naifas, "I have a job for you, which will give you a lot of money to make. The boys looked undecided and asked: “What kind of work? Do not keep on seeking. ” « Opá, it's a cool scene, you just have to go make some deliveries and get the money. If you are well aware of the message, I pay €20 per delivery, but notice that you have to be careful to receive the money. If I miss 1 cent, the thing's going to go wrong. Do not keep on seeking. ” And that's how they turned scams. They were intrigued by the contents of the saquinhos, but they concluded that, as far as they look like sand, it should be gold, because Zé's grandfather worked in Africa, in mines, and told them that gold looked like sand. Until the day, at any station in which Ruben, dared, asked: "O Mr. Guard, why are we here? Do not keep on seeking. ” “ Why? You guys are selling drugs and still wondering why? Oh, my God! », shouted the police. David, stuttering, explained that it was not a drug that was in the bags, that was gold. The police started laughing and agreed. « Ah, that is, even I give you reason: at the price of gold it is! But say there, who gave you the bags? Do not keep on seeking. ” They looked, fearful and indecisive. Deep down, they knew there was anything dangerous to pronounce the name Naifas. These boys were then visited and taken by a woman who told them: « Boys, what you did is a drug-trafficking crime. Do you understand? As they are still younger, they are not subject to adult penalties. As it is these hours, they'll be taken to a foster home and then we'll see. Do not keep on seeking. ” David thought: “Am I not listening, a house? Oh, my God! What's a house like? » He shook Reuben, who was about to sleep, and said, "Did you hear? Let's go home! Do not keep on seeking. ” They looked, and happiness flowed from their eyes. It's just that they never had one, they were sleeping here and there. The closest thing they had to do with a house was the slopes of Zé and the suburbs of Nuno. Their house has always been the street. « Ruben, do the sacks we left to the cops give to buy a house? » Ruben didn't know. I didn't even want to think about it now, I was too busy imagining the house. These boys are some of the many young people that Portugal institutionalizes as who stores products. I leave you here your story so that in each one of you it will be an ever-open wound and the society and state that forgets these hidden, invisible, abandoned and uncomfortable children. They are children with no past, no present and no future. The PSD will not fail them. This Parliament cannot fail them either. Because, as Carlos do Carmo says, «they look like bunches of paddles loose, whores», but that they are «the whores of this people learn to be men. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-20.u188	We're at the end of our agenda. Tomorrow the plenary session starts at 10 a.m. The first item on the agenda will be the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 571 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of innovation and modernization of public management to a simpler, speedy and efficient state at the service of people, 153 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government speed up the digitalisation process of Public Administration, in a strategy for the sustainable development of communities, 191 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the annual implementation and presentation of a waste control report in the public sector and the final implementation of the accounting standardisation system for the Public Administration and 402 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to rationalise the consultative administration of the State. Point 2 shall consist of the general assessment of the Law Proposal No 7 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — The guarantee of fair treatment for foreign citizens in Portugal without a valid travel permit. point 3 shows the assessment of Petition No 65 / XV / 1. a ( ABIC — Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ) — At the end of the admission rates to doctoral evidence, together with the Bills No 667 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Updates of scientific research scholarships and their components, resets cut subsidies and eliminates doctoral rates, 685 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the end of the collection of admission fees and emoluments for the provision of doctoral evidence and 689 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Basics of Higher Education Financing Act, Law No. 37 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 in general, and with Resolution Projects No. 476 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of admission rates to academic evidence, 549 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of fees and emoluments in public higher education institutions for admission to academic evidence of doctorate and 581 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government a set of assumptions to be considered in the reform of higher education financing. In point 4, Petition No 57 / XV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( Filipe Maranhas de Castro Matos et al.) — By the right to mobility of pets, together with Bill No. 691 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Provides for the guarantee of the right to mobility with pets, eliminating discrimination by breeds and other limitations, in general, and with the Resolution Project Nos 415 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government provide better access conditions for animals in mobility services and 472 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to mobility of pets. Point 5 shall consist of the vote. See you tomorrow and a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
