ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] Today there is no reading of the file, so I ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Let us then begin our work with agenda item 1, which consists of the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 535 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic and gender violence, 536 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the effective strengthening of specialized training and training of professionals involved in preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, 537 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the field of prevention and combating violence in courtship, 538 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of the Action Plans incorporating the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030 and the Action Plan for the Prevention and Combating of Human Trafficking, 539 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic violence against older persons, together with, in general, Bills Nos 10 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures the appointment of patron on prevention scales for victims of domestic violence, 515 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the inclusion of condemnation of crimes of domestic violence, of offense to physical integrity, against sexual freedom and self-determination committed against the author of succession in the causes of successive indignity, for the purpose of amending the Civil Code and the Criminal Code, 644 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( 10. the amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ), 645 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Assigns patronage to victims of domestic violence ( 10 ). the amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ), 678 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthen the protection of the elderly who are victims of crimes and 731 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures adequate legal support for all victims of domestic violence, and with Resolution Projects Nos 474 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the urgent approval of national action plans and extended investment in the prevention and fight against violence in courtship and 550 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at children and young victims of domestic violence. To present the PSD initiatives, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the PSD brings to the debate a set of initiatives, all addressing the problem of domestic violence and gender-based violence. In the face of more an agenda on domestic and gender-based violence, many of you, as well as many Portuguese and Portuguese, will probably say: "again? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” Yes, again, because unfortunately the numbers of domestic violence do not stop growing. We simply think that last year this was the most-participated crime in Portugal, with 30 389 occurrences being recorded plus 14, 6 % more than in the previous year. This is a sad record, if we keep in mind that it is the highest value in the last 10 years. Yes, again, because the deaths of women, children and elderly victims of domestic violence continue to grow. Only in 2022 do we regret the death of 28 people who were murdered in the context of domestic violence, of which 24 are women and 4 are children. While this is the scenario, it is necessary to continue to fight this scourge, which destroys lives and families. [[PSD applause.]] It is to combat these black figures that the PSD brings today a set of initiatives that aim more than to create new laws, which, in most cases, only repeat existing legal forecasts or create redundancy that make the legal system even more complex, so that, instead of helping the victims, they become engrossed in a legal entanglement that does not defend them. Considering also that, with regard to this problem, Portugal has a legal system at the level of the most developed countries, then what is really missing in our country? What is missing is a government that implements public policies, it is a government that implements existing laws, it is a government that responds, on the ground, with concrete measures, is a government that provides the means to meet both the needs of the victims and the agents of justice. In short, what we really need is that the so propagated phrase'make happen' is more than one of the many hollow and empty slogans that the government has been used to. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposals, which I present below, are intended precisely to recommend to the Government that it act so that « make happen ». From then on, we have the Resolution Project No. 538 / XV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the adoption of such late action plans that integrate the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030 and the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Human Trafficking. We still have the Resolution Project No 535 / XV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic and gender violence as well as draft resolution No 536 / XV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the effective strengthening of the specialized training and training of professionals involved in the prevention and combating of violence against women and households, through, inter alia, the strengthening of the specialized continuing training actions aimed at all professionals dealing with the victims, so that there is better action in the reception and care of the victim, in the collection of evidence and in the assessment of the risk. [[PSD applause.]] We also present the Resolution Project No 537 / XV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the field of prevention and combating violence in dating, through the systematic and continuous development of specific programmes, in school context, of primary prevention of violence in dating and promotion of a culture of non-violence. We also propose the creation of a reference with recommendations addressed to the entities responsible for education, health and promotion of gender equality, to pay particular attention to the current phenomenon of increasing violence in dating, because some of these behaviors are today confused with alleged expressions of affection, and this cannot continue to happen. I also refer to the Resolution Project No 539 / XV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the strengthening of measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic violence against elderly persons, promoting a specialized training plan aimed at the professionals of the security forces, health and social security areas, in order to train them to prevent and combat violence against the elderly, and developing information strategies on the types of violence against the elderly, on how to prevent them and how to react. In conclusion, with these proposals — and others which have already entered Parliament and which will be discussed in due course — the PSD says « present! », in the search for solutions to reverse this phenomenon of domestic and gender-based violence. These proposals include children, young people, women and the elderly. Will the government be with the PSD and comply with the recommendations that we bring here or will continue to repeat the slogan « make happen », as if the problems were solved with old and spent phrases? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u3	To present the initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This must be of the most recurrent themes in this House, and that is why we failed in the mission to combat the tragedy of domestic violence. We all failed. We talk, we talk, we talk, but really nothing is done. The victims, in their vast majority women, continue to lack the answers they need, both at the level of justice and at the level of health and housing. There are still insufficient housing responses, because basically, if you continue to leave the criminals loose, through the streets. How many lives could have been saved, if justice had been as it should be: just and fast? Unfortunately, this is not the reality of our country. You see, the victims complain behind the complaint, but no one calls, until, one day, a tragedy happens. The numbers show that the State failed. They may come to make up the numbers and say that there are more complaints, because the victims are losing fear and reporting more, but the truth is that the state fails when it does not accompany, it fails when it does not protect and when it continues to leave the victims at the mercy of the aggressor. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Judges still lack sufficient training in this area, and security forces are not equipped with means and thus complaints that are serious end up being ignored. For this reason, the Arrival proposes that, as is the case with the defendants, the victims have immediate access to an informal lawyer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u6	So being named the defender, the victim will feel-CL will soon be more accompanied. You will be able to better understand the procedures of the whole process and to know the instruments at your disposal, to defend yourself. It will be more efficiently able to make demands of the process, in addition to being informed of its rights. Often, reality is not as simple as a complaint, because there is a family home, there are children in common, there is a marriage and, therefore, it is not just a criminal process, but perhaps more than two or three of a civil nature. We were pleased to see that other parties took the example of the Arrival and presented identical proposals. We hope, therefore, that the proposal of the Arrival will finally be approved, because it effectively constitutes a strengthening of the victim's defence guarantees, which should not, in any case, be in a position of greater fragility than the defendant. As for the other proposals, the PSD makes a set of recommendations. We agree with them in general, however, unfortunately, it will not be these recommendations that will solve the problem of domestic violence in our country, much less in the short term. The PS presents a total of zero proposals in order not to vary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u8	I will repeat, for the people at home to realize: the Socialist Party, which is said to be a defender of protection to victims of domestic violence, arrives at this debate, once again, with zero proposals. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It must be because everything goes well, in Portugal, except in the part where last year 28 people died of domestic violence. This year, unfortunately, some have also lost their lives. In addition to the proposal I have already mentioned, the debate comes with another dimension of violence, this being done with the elderly. It is true that this proposal not only has criminal scope, but still aims at greater protection of these people, which are so many and so many times forgotten by all—the state, the families, the institutions. It is this House's duty to do what it can to bring more dignity to its citizens and to protect our elderly. It is intended, with this proposal, to avoid abuse, violence or coercion against the elderly and also to bring greater responsibility to families, in particular to children, as well as to anyone who has a link with these citizens and therefore has the opportunity to use their position in any way to coerce them. A child who lets his father go hungry, who does not assure him the necessary care, who does not care for him or esteem or who leaves him should not have the possibility of being heir, as the law itself indicates, because he is unworthy to receive the inheritance of his father. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We understand that times have changed. Before, the older ones took care of the younger ones, and then the situation was reversed and no one was left behind. However, this cannot be justified so that in this House we are indifferent to situations such as those of the homes of Lourinhã, Montijo or Loulené, where people let go hungry and provided them with a hose bath, or even images that embarrass us all, an old one to be attacked by ants. The State cannot escape its responsibilities, nor can it expect the children to treat the parents or the employees of the institutions to treat the users, although they obviously have that obligation. However, this does not mean that we are not careful, that we are not diligent and that we do not do everything to ensure peace, quietness, love and affection for our elderly. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u9	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u10	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I began by thanking the PSD for bringing this important issue to the debate. This is a theme for which the NAP has also said 'present'! With several initiatives already presented in this Assembly of the Republic, for example, the adoption of measures as important as the special licence for the family restructuring of victims of domestic violence, the strengthening of the training of judges or the allocation of victim status to children living in the context of domestic violence. Unfortunately, numbers keep talking for themselves. We still have to take a path that guarantees the effective protection of the victims. It is in this sense that the NAP proposes today to visit the institute of successive indignity, in order to better defend the victims of domestic violence and sexual crimes and not to allow the absolutely uncoordinated injustice of someone who has assaulted a member of his family to come to inherit their property. In 2014 — it is true that by the impulse of UMAR (Union of Alternative Women and Response) — this Parliament has made great progress by including, in the regime of successive indignity, the situations in which there is a fatal murder of the perpetrator of succession. This made it possible to exclude, from succession, cases of domestic violence that gave rise to death. However, as it is, the current regime still has situations in which the author of succession is the victim of other particularly censorable crimes. Let us say that, in these cases, there is a real limbo, because the protection of the victim—and his presumed will— depends on the kindness of the interpretation of jurisprudence, which often frames such cases through the institute of abuse of law. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does it make any sense for a domestic violence convict to be heir to the woman who's raped? Does it make any sense for a father who is convicted of violating his daughter, when she is 14 years old, to be an heir in the event of her premature death? Does it still make any sense that a son or a daughter who sadly abandoned their father or mother — weakened and in the end of life, denying them the most basic care — can they be their heirs? Obviously not. The answer, precisely, must be given by the legal framework, thus allowing the aggressor to be removed from his inheritance. We cannot provide for strong social censorship in the criminal field and then ignore it in the context of succession law. You can't censor the most and ignore the least. That is why this proposal arises from an appeal made by the Portuguese Association of Legal Women to 1. the Commission, has the support of the Advocates'Order and the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office and has already been amended in such a way as to accommodate the repairs of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. We hope that the other political forces will also accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u11	To present the Bill No. 644 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( 10. the amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ) and 645 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Assigns patronage to victims of domestic violence ( 10 ). the amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ) has the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence is a crime with a very worrying dimension in our country. It is, in fact, the most involved crime, which affects women in particular, a particularly serious face of inequality. A number of legislative measures have been taken, but in our view, the great problem is effectively in the application, either in the absence of sufficient and adequate means, or at the level of training. There has also been progress in this area, but it is true and it is necessary that many more agents of the services called to intervene, from security to justice, frequent these training actions. Archiving rates are around 63 %, as the RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ) tells us. Despite an improvement in recent years, there is still enormous archiving and one of the reasons is evidential insufficiency, in a context where the centrality of the victims in the constitution of the evidence, particularly at the witness level. It is therefore necessary to give the victims confidence, as well as support at all times. The victim's expectation must be met with the prospect and expectation of justice. Although we understand that the great failure to combat domestic violence is reflected in the logic of the means available and its training, there are, in fact, aspects in which one can go to the victims, making some changes to the legislation. First of all, we present a bill that aims, precisely, to give more strength and effectiveness to the rights already enshrined, at work level and for the protection of employment, to victims of domestic violence, in the relationship and in cooperation with employers. The aim is to give greater strength and effectiveness to the transfer at the request of the worker to be a victim of the domestic violence crime and to the justified shortcomings motivated by the impossibility of the practice of domestic violence. Thus, among several measures, there is a serious counter-ordination of the fact that the request for transfer is not being complied with and there is a way to do so, but also the possibility of the justifications for shortcomings being certified by a larger set of entities that intervene throughout the process. Another bill that we present today, which we believe to be of great importance, has to do with the support that is given to victims at first, at the level of knowledge about the process and its rights. It is true that the system today actually provides for judicial support, but this does not happen at the very first moment when it is essential that victims be able to know all the steps and everything they have to do. One of the examples we wanted to highlight is the request for compensation advance. There is a fund that is never exhausted because it is not known by the victims and that, if it were, of course, would facilitate, from an economic point of view, the exit from a situation of domestic violence and the beginning of a project of life. Therefore, what we believe is that there must be an employer who immediately reports on the steps to be taken, without prejudice to the scheme already envisaged for access to law, either at the level of the judicial sponsorship or in the exemptions from costs. We do not exclude, in accordance with what has also been mentioned in the various opinions, the extension to all vulnerable or particularly vulnerable victims. These measures, one within the labour force and the other within the framework of legal support and knowledge of the rights themselves, can contribute exactly to strengthening the role of the victim, his confidence in justice and the one who can be a new life project for himself and his family. Basically, they are proposals that effectively protect the victim at a time of greater difficulty, when it most needs it. This is the step we believe that the Assembly of the Republic should give, in order to meet the legitimate expectations of those who want to see justice done. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u13	To submit Bill No. 731 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures adequate legal support for all victims of domestic violence, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we present a project to facilitate the access of victims of domestic violence to legal support. We believe that this project does not exhaust what should be the discussion on a new framework for support for victims of domestic violence. from our point of view, this picture has to fulfill other paradigms of protection of women, not only in the complaint, but throughout the process after the denunciation; a new paradigm that implies, for example, that it does not have to be the woman to be removed from her home and her life, and that it can be protected from the aggressor without that it means an added violence. We are very available to discuss these measures. In this respect I also welcome the presence in Parliament of the Baroness Office of the Advocates'Order and other representatives of the Order. They are not here for this reason, but I hope that they will — I am sure they will — be partners in this discussion on the issue of domestic violence. According to RASI, as has already been said in 2022, there were almost 30,500 domestic violence participations, representing an increase of 15 % compared to the previous year. Domestic violence against spouses or similar situation continues to be the most involved crime in Portugal, and women and girls are most victims and men are most reported. We do not want to hierarchize gender-based violence in the context of domestic violence in relation to violence against the elderly. We believe that they have very different explanations and very different intervention tables and that joining them in the same debate will eventually cause us not to be able to discuss thoroughly two realities that are completely different. The discussion of domestic violence is obviously intertwined in the discussion of gender-based violence. The outcome of violence against women is often fatal. The UMAR Observatory recorded in Portugal between 1 January and 15 November 2022 28 women murdered. In 55% of cases, there was previous violence against the victim; in seven cases, complaints had already been lodged to the authorities; in five cases the victims had already been threatened with death by their murderers; and in all cases, the violence they were already victims was known to third parties. Appropriate legal support is all the more necessary as the judicial system itself continues to provide evidence of a strong presence of the masculine mentality in the courts. Consider, for example, the following case: in February 2022, a woman from the Lisbon region will have been assaulted in the morning by her companion. In January 2023, the public heard that the Court of Amateur accepted the recommendation of the Public Prosecutor to suspend the domestic violence process relating to this case, ordering the aggressor to take the victim out to dinner and to the theatre. This man, with other criminal backgrounds of different nature, according to the news, saw the process suspended in exchange of 200 € to an institution of social solidarity, of 102 € to the Portuguese state and the presentation of invoices and exit tickets with the attacked companion. In the face of domestic violence, the Court proposes playful exits. That is also why we believe that victims must have a special legal protection free of charge from the beginning of the trial and that it must be applied, it must be right, it must be guaranteed to all victims of domestic violence, regardless of their circumstances of special vulnerability or not. I stress that this protection should, as I have already said, be attributed from the beginning of the process free of charge and should be guaranteed to all victims of domestic violence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u15	To present Resolution Projects Nos 474 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the urgent approval of national action plans and extended investment in the prevention and fight against violence in courtship and 550 / XV / 1. a (L) — It recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at children and young victims of domestic violence, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Good morning, Dear colleagues, good morning also to the public in the galleries. It has already been said today that more action is needed and less talk is needed in the fight against domestic violence. However, in a democracy, there is room for debate and action, and it is when a democracy knows how to debate in its plurality—and I greet the PSD for bringing this draft resolution to the House — which can find ways of action for a problem that is itself multifactorial and that depends on cross-cutting measures. We are not going to solve the issue of domestic violence, we are not going to eradicate it with just one action, but with a set of various actions. There are several parties here who present today proposals that are relevant and that I hope they will not be subjected to customary treatment, when we arrive at nothing in the regiment votes, to see that they are passed on to a compressor roll, because there are many of these proposals that deserve to be approved. on the Free side, a part of what we do, through our Resolution Project No 474 / XV / 1. a (L) is precisely asking the Government to present what it has already committed to: the Plan of Action for Equality between Women and Men,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u17	But do we want to be equal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u18	... the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Action Plan for Combating Discrimination in Reason of Sexual Orientation, the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. I could go on, 'cause it's all late, it's all about doing. Last year, there was still justification for the early elections. There is no such justification now. We add the Resolution Project No 550 / XV / 1. a (L), which recommends to the Government the adoption of measures directed at children and young victims of domestic violence. It is about improving instruments, some of which we already have, and adding others to the debate that is being held here by other parties. We defend the creation, in conjunction with the Ombudsman, of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth and civil society organizations, of specialized channels of complaint for children and young people who, of course, have to have another kind of sensitivity and other kind of work in the referral of complaints and who are also suitable for the use of new technologies. Regretting that the Government is not present, but hoping that the PS Parliamentary Group will be able to take the message, I would also like to draw attention to the implementation of a measure already adopted in the State Budget for 2022, within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda, which is to work on the financial independence of victims of domestic violence, ensuring that they have access to the unemployment allowance at their request. It is approved, we are still waiting for it to finally be on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u19	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u20	We now begin the stage of the interventions, speaking on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Faro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u21	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has elected the fight against domestic violence as a cross-cutting and priority issue in this Legislative Session. In the previous legislation, however, interrupted, a package of initiatives aimed at the protection of victims was approved and significantly contributed to the protection and defence of victims. Even today, in this plenary, we will vote for a proposal to amend the Penal Code, which aims, above all, to protect victims of crime with a gender dimension, which affects thousands of women, and this reinforces the protection of victims of crime of non-consensual disclosure of intimate images. Therefore, because it is consistent with concrete actions, we affirm with conviction that prevention and combating domestic and gender-based violence has been, and is, a priority of the Socialist Party and of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we appreciate a set of proposals for which we are obviously not indifferent, but let us remind you of what has been, and that is, our history and our progress. When recommending to the Government the adoption of targeted measures for children and young victims of domestic violence, we recall that since 2007 we have made strong progress in protecting these children and young people with the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities. In 2021, we approved the deepening of the victim status for children in situations of domestic violence and are already in operation the 28 response units of psychological support, minimizing damage to the mental health of these children and young people. When they propose the effective strengthening of specialized and trained training of professionals, we recall the continuity of continuous and specialized training actions aimed at different professionals in the areas of intervention, the strengthening of the training of judges and the annual joint training plan involving more than 3400 professionals, seven governmental areas, the very entities of the National Network for Support to the Victims of Domestic Violence and the Judiciaries. When recommending the implementation of measures in the field of prevention and combating violence in dating, we recall that, in addition to preparing a specific training plan for agents working with young people, we have several projects that intervene and continue these objectives at various levels of education, such as the Artemis Project or the UniMais Programme, and also the continuity of strategic investment in this area in the next action plan to prevent and combat violence against women, of 2023 - 2026. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of how much to do, but do not require simple answers to complex problems. The National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination – launched in 2018, but that the Socialist Party and this Government have come to work in a very previous way – has opened a new planning cycle, based on a more strategic, broad and collective approach of all sectors in defining measures to be taken, and we have made real significant progress. For all this, the fight against domestic and gender violence is not exhausted in public policies and it is also clear that only its increased awareness and visibility will allow lower rates of violent crime. We will therefore continue in this relentless struggle for equality and zero tolerance to domestic violence and gender violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u22	You have a request for clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Rosina Ribeiro Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, 10 480 was the number of complaints for violence in dating that the PSP ( Public Security Police) received, between 2018 and 2022,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u25	... being that more than 3,500 were recorded only last year. These numbers reflect violence which constitutes a serious form of human rights violation and a reality with which many and many young people are confronted and which should not leave anyone indifferent. [[PSD applause.]] The National Study on Violence in Namoro, 2020, concluded that 58 % of the respondents had already suffered some kind of violence and that the majority normalizes these types of behaviors, even if they consider them to be expressions of love, which can also be confirmed by a study conducted by the UMAR organization, which concluded that, of the six forms of violence involved, the violence of control is the most legitimate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u27	It is this mistaken view of what should be a relationship that should concern us not only for the risks, but also for the future consequences of normalizing these behaviors.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u29	So does the PS not consider it important to implement a strategy, articulated with the entire school community, to prevent these behaviors? [[PSD applause.]] Does the PS not consider it urgent to update the action plan that has remained intact since 2021, based on 2017 data? And finally, given that the PS is constantly saying that it is an example in the implementation of equality policies, I ask: would it not make any more sense to have a State Secretary who really acted within his functions and who, in addition to using the data and the work done by civil society organisations, would act in the defence of these rights? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u30	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Patrícia Faro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u31	Mr President, Mrs Rosina Pereira, thank you very much for your question, and obviously, as I mentioned at the outset, for all the contributions. Only from a joint perspective is that we can effectively improve the answers to whom we work. In fact, the increase in complaints means that victims have become more believers in the State's responses. [[Laughter from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] It is not necessarily a negative aspect. This is the way we want to continue, and the government has already launched a new strategy for the protection of victims, which is already being prepared. The issues of dating violence are also emerging, are related to the area of generic violence, but, as is obvious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u32	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u33	...we must first know the phenomena and make a diagnosis to then act. That's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u34	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence is a scourge that has accompanied us. The fight against domestic violence is the task of all parties, civil society agents and non-governmental organizations, but above all the government. The debates around this serious issue convey the idea of the eternal return, giving the illusion that it is progressing, when we finally remain exactly where we were. Many times, several of us, we went up to this forum to talk about domestic violence with angry and revolted words, as justified. It is certainly not due to lack of debate or to lack of ideas that the situation remains very worrying and the numbers remain alarming. Perhaps there will be a lack of political will to tackle the problem in the front, with more gestures and less words, however well-intentioned they are; with more appropriate legislation and less proclamation; with greater supervision and less negligence when it comes to establishing responsibilities. The truth is that the situation worsened in 2022. The number of fatal victims due to domestic violence increased last year in Portugal, including homicides on women and children, compared to the same period of the previous year. The number of people in the National Domestic Violence Support Network has also increased and the number of episodes of care has been expanded through teleassisted channels. These statistics will give you some thought. Domestic violence is already the crime that kills the most and most complaints generate in our country. When you don't kill, hurt, sometimes for the rest of your life. A peaceful country out of doors and out of the home, but with numbers that should embarrass us when the doors close and the four walls surround us. Adding to all this are, also in increasing numbers, the sexual assaults of minors in family context and, still, the most invisible violence of all, but not always less cruel, psychological violence, often hidden between the walls of a home that has nothing to be happy about. The Portuguese Victim Support Association ( APAV ), with the authority that assists you, for knowing the situation on the ground, has made successive warnings, regretting that the government's rhetoric in this matter translates into such poor results. Everything could be different if the socialist majority did not so often close the door to the suggestions made in this same House — the House of Democracy — by living badly with the difference and with evolution. It has already happened with the Liberal Initiative, when the majority of the PS, which was followed by the PSD and the PCP, led the draft law of the IL in which we intend to expressly consecrate the crime of exposure of less domestic violence, because we consider that this situation deserves autonomous criminal protection and that the current wording of article 152. the Criminal Code has not been interpreted in such a way as to adequately safeguard this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u37	But the curious thing is that these same parties here voted against, in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, voted in favour of a motion of the Liberal Initiative, which aims precisely to appeal to the Assembly of the Republic to the express empowerment of the crime of exposure of children and young people to domestic violence, in order to ensure that these children and young people who witness this reality are safely and adequately protected in criminal law. These refusals do not make us give up. On the contrary, we will continue to struggle to appeal to the honourable Members who, in this Parliament, have dropped the project. These refusals do not make us give up, so long as we continue to make our contribution, having seen a bill that amended the Civil Procedure Code, exempting victims of domestic violence from attending court hearings with the aggressor for alleged attempts at reconciliation, what this Assembly of the Republic — and very well! — equated secondary victimisation. In our view, these issues are important enough to stay out of ideological drawers and usual party disputes, especially when there is still a great deal to be done in crime prevention, in the intransigent fight against violence against women, children and elderly people and in zero tolerance to guard situations of recurrence. In all this, but also in the legal and psychological support to victims; in the specialized training of professionals in this area; in the sensitization of judges for the consequences of these dramas—in fact, the Liberal Initiative presented a proposal in the State Budget for 2022 for the formation of judges in this area—and in the education of young people, often encouraged by violent language in vogue on social networks. Domestic violence cannot be absent from citizenship classes. It is vital to instruct young people for non-discrimination, an essential framework of any educational plan for human rights, something that will never exist in public space if they do not start home. But how many times have we spoken of this, in this very Assembly of the Republic? I recall the recent debate here on the celebration of the International Women's Day, in which the topic was again focused. The well-intentioned proclamations were again heard in this plenary, unfortunately with few practical effects outside the walls of this building. Each of us, in his social circle, should begin by setting an example. By setting an example and being an example to others, especially to younger ones, because dating violence is the gateway to an endless nightmare. That is why it is so important to give and be the example for young people, to warn of verbal, psychological and physical violence, which are intolerable. It is necessary to put an end to expressions that have ceased to make sense in the interconnected world, in which the suffering experienced in private cannot dissociate itself from the priorities in the public sphere. Expressions such as « who is in the convent is who knows what goes in there» or, then, « between husband and wife, do not pick up». Above all, action must be taken to ensure that these debates do not turn into empty ritual procedures of content, only to meet the agenda. As Almada Negroes said: "When I was born, the phrases that will save humanity were all written, only one thing was missing — saving humanity. That’s where we are. We must move from words to concrete decisions, step by step, but always firmly, so that in one year we can all conclude that these painful statistics are finally in regression. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u38	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rights of older people are the subject of some initiatives that we are debating today, and that is what I am going to talk about, essentially about two bills that want to change the Criminal Code and the Civil Code. I anticipate that the path followed in these bills does not seem appropriate to us, although we recognize the relevance of the problem of the rights of older people. We live in a country and in a world where there are more and more older people, and that is good, because it means that we live longer, with more health. The United Nations tells us that in 2050 we will have more than one and a half million people over 65 — in every six people, one will be over 65 — and therefore we are obviously faced with a new challenge, the challenge of global ageing of the population, a phenomenon that will have implications for the fundamental rights of all. Therefore, the authors of the projects did well when they identified the relevance of this issue. The problem is, however, in the responses they propose. I'm starting with the Civil Code and the successive law. Projects want to prohibit that certain people, generally convicted of ill-treatment against their ascendants, may come, one day, to inherit their property, extending causes of successive indignity. The APAV criticizes, and well, this solution, saying that it is a political option that will eliminate the freedom of decision and the will of the dead future. It is clear that we understand that they may not be hereditary people who, at some point in life, have abused, seriously offended physical integrity, tried to kill their father, their grandfather, finally, their ascendants, generally, but that may already result from the Institute of Desertification. What we do not accept is that, definitely and abstractly, it is determined, for example, that someone who at the age of 20 commits a simple offense to the grandfather's physical integrity will forever be prevented from becoming his heir, regardless of his grandfather's will. We believe that life takes a lot of turns, that people can change, and sometimes even change for the better,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u40	Or worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u41	...and, therefore, we move away from these solutions. Nor do we follow the proposed amendments to the Penal Code for the creation of a crime known as 'an elderly person'. We don't think that makes any sense. Vulnerable victims, especially because of age, can already see the penalties of their aggravated aggressors and there is already a specific status for the protection of most vulnerable victims. We therefore follow the judgment that APAV also makes, in particular on the project of the Arrival, when it says that the solution is « discriminatory », that « demonstrates negative prejudices towards older people... » — I quote — «... a protectionist speech and violator of the rights of older people. Do not keep on seeking. ” The words I am going to say next are my own: solutions like these are manifestations of culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u43	The United Nations and the WHO (World Health Organization ) have released a global report on culture last year and it is very clear its negative impact: rationing of health care on the basis of age, social isolation, early death, disadvantages in work and housing. Generally, loss of opportunities, and that's what we can't accept. What we want is that we continue to favour investment in the health of everyone, regardless of age, as well as housing and culture for everyone, in proximity programs, such as Support 65 - Elderly in Security or the Solidarity programme does not have age. And now two more protocols were signed for the creation of 80 vacancies for older victims—we have two structures virtually completed, in Grândola and Mangualde. Mr Pedro Pinto, started this debate saying that the Socialist Party was presenting itself with zero proposals and let me tell you that your statement is going to be very old,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u44	Now don't be a identist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u45	... because at the end of this plenary—probably to be consistent with what you did in 1. the Commission — will vote in favour of a draft law of the Socialist Party which gave rise to a joint text with the PSD and which has accepted solutions of the Communist Party, because, finally, we like to work with the parliamentary groups who, responsibly, put national interest above political interests on issues that are relevant to all. Therefore, a bill will shortly have to be voted on to protect the rights of victims of the dissemination of intimate content, which are, above all, women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u47	Finally, by saying that in the Socialist Party we always oppose all the 'ismos' — racism, sexism, and we do not accept citizenship — and that we follow Michelle Bachelet when he said that all lives have the same value and that our rights do not diminish with age. I remember, even to finish, the words of an African sixty-year-old named Ida Nambeya, who said that the main problem they have is to be invisible: « No one sees us. Do not keep on seeking. ” We do not want to erase the individuality of each person over 65 years of age,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u48	... integrating it into a group, which is assumed to be homogeneous, of people who consider themselves to be diminished. On the contrary, what we want is for all people to be seen and their rights to be guaranteed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u49	Mrs Cláudia Santos has a request for clarification, but she no longer has time to answer. I assume, however, that Mr Pedro Pinto of the Arrival wishes to maintain the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u50	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u51	You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u52	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia Santos, you know that I have sympathy for you and that I appreciate your speeches very much, but today I am not happy. Today, it was those days when it was really very unhappy! Accusing the Reach of Odysmism, when we have made a lot of protection proposals for the elderly — lots of proposals! — that the PS has plummeted repeatedly. If someone protects the elderly, if anyone knows that the elderly are important, because they have had a whole story behind them and they still have it, and they have to be protected until the last day of their lives, that someone is us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u54	The PS came here to make a reformulation of the truth and Mrs Cláudia Santos was not happy. With regard to APAV, Mrs. Deputy is probably explained because the victims are not protected in Portugal. Perhaps, APAV has not done its work and, perhaps, has also failed to protect the victims. That is the great reality and that is what the honourable Member should have said. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u55	To close the debate, the Bureau needs to know the name of the Member of Parliament or of the PSD Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u56	Excuse me, Mr. President, Mr. André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u57	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u58	Mr President, even before the closure, we wanted to intervene in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u59	Parliamentary groups must not abuse too much tactics in inclusion for interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u60	It was really dialectic, we were watching the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u61	We did not realize that there were no more inscriptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u62	After all, before the debate is closed, there is still Mr. Ladies and gentlemen who wish to speak. All right, who are you? [[Pause.]] They inform the Bureau that they are MP Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block ; MP Rita Matias, of the Arrival ; and MP Alma Rivera, of the PCP. Therefore, it was easy to answer my question and it is also easy to communicate it to the Bureau. Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic has precedence in accordance with the Bureau. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start being angry – perhaps the most sympathetic word I have to address the Socialist Party — to discuss these issues with the Socialist Party, even because it has a great intellectual dishonesty. Today, too, a proposal from the Arrival will be put to the vote, because the Socialist Party did not want to dialogue with the Arrival and accept our recommendations regarding the sharing of sexual content on social networks in an unconsensual way—they do not have the capacity to dialogue and now they do not blame the Party enough not to do the work, because they do! — I propose that you have many positive opinions, unlike yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Since they are given to historical reviews and want to come to show a job that they have not done, I come to show you the work that the Arrival has done, since 2019. For example, we have put forward a proposal to ensure that employers are appointed on prevention scales. Let's guess: the Socialist Party has led her. We have put forward a proposal to raise the minimum age for marriage to 18 years, because, yes, girls are forced to marry, particularly girls of Roma ethnicity, and you are silent because you are hypocritical. [[Congrats from the CH.]] More: we have asked for the extension of shelters since 2019; we have asked that children and women should not necessarily have to share the room in the shelter; we have asked for the aggravating of penalties;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u64	Chumbaram!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u65	We call for greater means of prevention and follow-up. It's all down by the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u66	All down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u67	We also call for the strengthening of answers for men, because, yes, there are also men who are victims of domestic violence, and you, covered by the politically correct, forget this reality. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] More: we also call for the reinforcement of security forces, because, yes, when a woman is being assaulted, it is not the PS deputies who stand in front of the attacker, it is the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Security forces that you fear to call fascists, machos and racists. So, above all, I address the victims, whether they are women, men, elderly or children, to say that, regardless of the victim situation that they live, above all, they are victims of the Socialist Party,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u68	... that he fears to politicize with you and does not approve proposals from other political parties, because he wants to take dividends and profit from your plight of misery.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u69	It's a shame! Populists!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u70	It is regrettable and therefore the Socialist Party must only cover the face of shame for the poor service it provides to the victims in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u71	I would like to congratulate all the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the interventions and the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor of Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very conservativeism hides behind alleged criminal ultra-positivism in this Parliament. Society evolves to consider as censorable, wrong and criminal a set of attitudes that stem from prejudice against women, a role of subalternization, the conservative image of how women should live their sexuality, and a conservatism that pushes the issue of sexuality into the private sphere, removing it from the sphere of the public and therefore from the protection of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u73	But you want some change, Joana? You want a change?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u74	What we want to assure the victims of all kinds of gender-based violence and sexual violence is the protection of the State. Today we receive the Youth Network for Equality, to ask us to do what the PS refused to do, which is to consider that the crime of non-consensual disclosure of images of intimate or sexual content is public crime, that is considered sexual crime, that which the Socialist Party did not accept, not wanting to dialogue. He understood to dialogue with the PSD and PCP, following another way than that of feminist movements to dialogue on this matter. But it is precisely by discussing these prejudices of society that we come to the cultural problems that are at the basis of gender-based violence. We will not solve them by decree, it is true, and therefore what we are discussing is not how to resolve by decree the cultural problems that are at the basis of gender-based violence. What we are discussing is how public policies can prevent and combat domestic violence and gender-based violence. There is one reason why most of the projects presented today are draft resolutions to recommend to the government that comply with the law. It's because we already have a fairly advanced legal framework for the protection of victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u75	Right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u76	There is a problem of public investment, there is a problem of implementing measures, there is a serious problem of how the government implements measures of prevention, training and support for victims, so that they can be monitored by this Parliament, and so that they can be accounted for and their consequences analysed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. That's what you've failed, and that's what we have to keep working on. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u79	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Regardless of this debate be around domestic violence and not exactly about sharing intimate content, what we will say applies to all these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u81	Sharing content is also violence!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u82	There is no guarantee that the empowerment of crimes and even the worsening of criminal frameworks will contribute in any way to combat them. See: the United States has death penalty, life imprisonment, but that is not why violent crime can be fought. In fact, among the countries called 'developed' is one of the most violent. That is, there is indeed no direct translation between one thing and another.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u84	Legal science and social science have evolved precisely in order to perceive the usefulness of some of these legal instruments if they are not effectively more committed to resolution than to populism around these measures. But what I wanted to talk about very briefly was about the proposals that we bring, in the agenda made by the PSD, and that we understand, firstly, that they should be considered. We will follow up with all proposals that allow for greater legal protection for victims, because the victim often does not know that he has the right to legal support and that he has a statute that protects him, does not have that information. Therefore, we need to ensure that, at the time of the complaint, there is, of course, a follow-up to know the rights that are in place in the legal protection, but not only. We also believe that there are labour problems, which are due to the fact that the law is not particularly clear in certain aspects and the rights that have been guaranteed to victims of domestic violence have no consequence. That is why we believe that the proposal we make to amend those labour provisions is very useful, and we would like this debate to have further deepened these aspects. However, we call for these proposals, which actually make the difference and which are effective, although they are not proposed for newspaper talks, to be approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u85	We are thus at the end of this debate. We will move on to the closure, which is done by Mr André Coelho Lima, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which has two minutes to add to the time that he has left the parliamentary group. So you have 3 minutes and 41 seconds for closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u86	Mr President: I congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and I welcome you in particular, for a long time now that I have not had the opportunity to congratulate you here. On this issue that the PSD today brought up the debate, regarding domestic violence and a set of draft resolutions and bills that were presented, I mean that I am speaking here in the condition of man. In fact, I wanted to thank my party for giving me an opportunity to talk about this. It is a fearful opportunity, I must say, but it is still important for us, PSD, to transmit that this issue is not a female claim. [[PSD applause.]] This is not a matter of concern to women! This is a cowardly phenomenon. And if you want, I'm here as a coward's representative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u87	It's not worth it either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u88	Because yes— yes! — contrary to what has now been said, 86% of the victims are women. To realize that this is not a crime committed especially on women and girls is not knowing what we are talking about! I don't know what we're talking about! [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u89	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u90	So it's like a man I'm here. And there is no way to deceive: how could it not be a crime about women? How could it not be a crime about women in a society that obviously has a structural machismo? Look, my dad's grandmother was the one who was in charge at home. However, until I was born, although she sent home, she did not vote, and when she wanted to go abroad, she had to ask my grandfather for permission! How are such positions and laws not to leave marks in society? It was 50 years ago, 49 years ago. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this phenomenon should not be politicized or partisanized, because it is something that unites us all. Domestic violence is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations, besides being the most involved crime. And we did not want, and we do not want, to criticize the government in this matter. Although the government is not present, we do not want to do so. But you, the Socialist Party, also have to help us a little bit. They transmit to the government when they come here, who also have to help us a little. Let me explain why. This I have to read, because the names of the entities you create are very long. In 2018, the Government approved the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination, whose duration of action plans ended in 2021. We are still awaiting the approval of the new plans for the subsequent period, which should have started a year ago. He didn't do anything. Another issue: the implementation of emergency networks for domestic violence, approved at the Council of Ministers in 2019, is not yet on the ground, three years after they have been approved! Another: still among the measures adopted in 2019, the creation of a database of violence against women is there, but it is not yet fulfilled. You're still out of line! Therefore, I will use the words of Mrs Patrícia Faro, who said « this was and is a PS priority, and do not require simple answers to complex topics. » Mrs. Member, we only demand that you do your work! We just demand that you do what you've compromised, and that's not what you can do! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Members Joana Sá Pereira and Patrícia Faro.]] So what we demand from the PS — I will tell you from here — is that they are consistent with the values they say they defend, that they are consistent with the autonomy they often say they have towards the government and that they demand the government to do only what it has committed itself to, that it has not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u91	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u92	I will finish, Mr. President. Regarding us, as regards PSD, the PSD did its role: it presents five draft recommendations to the government, specifically on concrete subtypes, and one more, which is not discussed here, which comes about RASI, which is the division of domestic violence in subtypes of violence against older people and of violence in dating. Excuse me, Mr President, but do you think it is normal 68, 5 % of the victims of violence in dating—as Mrs Rosina Pereira said in her excellent speech? Do you think this is normal? There must be a social cry about this, especially in younger people! Especially the younger ones! This is something you have to be ashamed of as a society. That is why Mr President, thanking you, I end with a message. Well, today is April 28, except for mistake, we celebrated on April 25, three days ago, so taking advantage of this date, taking advantage of the spirit of what was said and what was celebrated, this is, above all, a message aimed at women, as a man, aimed at women: pride, claim, power and, above all, defend themselves, because we cannot continue to allow a heinous crime which is a shame to us as a society! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u93	What a lack of notion!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u94	Mrs Rita Matias intends to use the floor to speak to mesa. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u95	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau and make two requests. The first is a request for distribution of RASI of 2022 because if 72 % of the victims are women, 30 % of the victims are men. Then I also asked for the extraction of my intervention, since what I said was that there are also men who are victims and that the answers for men are still scarce. Therefore, I would like to clarify the House, since Mr. André Coelho Lima tried to spread the information.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u97	I don't know if, eventually, for a quote on the social media, but it was very bad for him. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests, PCP MP Alma Rivera and BE Member Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u98	Madam Member, we shall make the distribution of the documents that you have just mentioned. Mr André Coelho Lima also wants to speak to the Bureau. But it is really the Bureau that wants to speak, it will not now hold a dialogue with Mrs Rita Matias. For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u99	Mr President, thank you very much for the recommendations, but I will use the regimental figure as it should be used. So I would like to say to Mr President that he informs the Bureau that, for those who know how to do math accounts, 72 plus 30 gives 102. I don't know the percentages of Mrs Rita Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u100	You're so low!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u101	And misinformation is not being strict with what is being said. We are talking about a serious subject and, on a serious subject, we must speak seriously. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u102	You're ashamed of your face! Machista! Paternalist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u103	Mr President, I would like to point out that, on either side, the regimental figures have been relatively hit. We therefore close this first item on the agenda and move on to the second item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] Let's just create conditions to start work again. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. So, we move on to point 2 of the agenda, which consists of the discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos. 1 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime, 716 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the work regime by shift and night and strengthen the social protection of workers by shift and night and 726 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amend the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works, strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime. To present the PCP bill, Mr. Manuel Loff has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2019, one in six workers in Portugal worked on shifts. There were 835 000 workers, of whom more than 423 000, a little more than half, were women. In 2009, 10 years earlier, this number was only 440 000, which means...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u105	Sir, allow me to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u106	Right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u107	And allow me to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen. Members and officials of the parliamentary groups to create the conditions for us to continue our work. [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u108	Mr. President, in 10 years, the number almost doubled. On the other hand, almost 11 % of workers worked at night. At this rate of growth today, the number is expected to be higher, both in one category and in another. They're men and women forced to live in contraception. They are mothers and parents who are not with their children, who leave home with their children still sleeping and who arrive when they are already sleeping. They are mothers and parents who cannot attend the parties and the school and sports activities of their children, because the shift does not leave. It's weekends that don't exist, not with family, not with friends. They are mothers, parents, children, lovers, who don't have time to live together. They are children who are forced to grow deprived of rest time, leisure time. They're families that are built at shift intervals. Medical research in the field of work psychology has long shown the highly negative impact of shift work and, especially, of night work, on health. Among women, I stress the substantial increase in the risk of breast cancer, for example: studies show a higher incidence of 50 % in active women aged 30 to 54 who work at night at least half a year than in women of the same age who work during the day; in women who worked at night for six years, the risk rises to 70 %. Night work requires an additional effort. Daytime reactivation sleep is a shorter sleep and less quality. Night work causes sleep disturbances, frequent vigils and other neuropsychic disturbances: irritability, aggressiveness, exhaustion, asthenia and depressive tendencies. The principle and the law should therefore be based on the affirmation of the exceptionalness of night work. For years the CFP has been insisting in this House that it is urgent to limit night work and shift work to situations that are technically and socially justified, but only to them. It is urgent that the conditions of safety, health protection, protection of maternity and paternity, infrastructure and social services compatible with this type of working hours are guaranteed, and that they are established, by collective bargaining and contracting, allowances and compensation appropriate to the workers concerned. That's what we do in this project. We clarify that the concept of night work is fixed between 20 hours and 7 hours the next day. In cases of rotating rest days, it is important to establish the periodicity of your joy on Saturday and Sunday. It is necessary to establish short cycles for the night team and to create, for night workers, another rest interval, in addition to that already enshrined in the special period of sleepiness. Night and shift work should be accompanied by six-month periodic medical examinations. On the other hand, and considering all scientific evidence on the very negative impact of night work on the health and affective life of workers, it is absolutely fair to recognize the right to an anticipation of the retirement age for the shiftwork regime. The CFP proposes that these workers be entitled to a bonus in the calculation of the pension, with an increase to the overall rate of training by more than 0, 2 % per year of shift or night work. under this project, workers are recognized the right to leave the shift scheme, moving to daytime after 20 years in this scheme or simply after reaching 55 years of age, but in both cases, without loss of the allowance they enjoyed for the night work provided to date. in a country like ours, low wages, with successive governments maintaining an economic model that crushes wages and promotes profits, workers should not be forced to face the dilemma between preserving health or income. when presenting this project, the PCP performs one of its most important missions in Portuguese history, to defend the interests of those who work, whose voice so little is heard in this Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u109	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u110	We took 170 years of the battle started in the 19th century by the workers' movement, by the journey of the "three eights": eight hours of daily work, eight hours of leisure, family life and culture, eight hours to sleep and rest, based on the creation of a working day that constituted the historical framework of a more just and socially healthy society. Here we are again, and we don't give up. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u111	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group, specifically from Mrs Gabriela Fonseca, to whom I shall immediately take the floor to make the request for clarification to you
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP brings us to discussion and vote the Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. a, on the strengthening of workers' rights in the night and shift work system. The CFP has transformed in this bill the proposals presented as a specialist of 23. the amendment of the Labour Code, except one or two articles, in which all parties had the opportunity to submit their proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u113	Don't get tired, we'll keep presenting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u114	Well, we know that the alleged Worthy Work Agenda was a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u116	Another missed opportunity was the CFP, while it supported the Socialist Government, not to have taken advantage of to define and regulate all the rapidly worn-out professions that fall under the topic under discussion. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD presented the Resolution Project No. 398 / XV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the conduct of a study that would allow the definition of criteria that identify professions of rapid wear as well as its regulations, but was rejected at the plenary meeting of 10 March by the socialist majority. [[PSD applause.]] Since the legitimacy of the project presentation is not at stake, the question I ask the CFP is about the real objective of the project presentation at the moment. This is because on 10 February it was approved in this Parliament on 23 February. the amendment to the Labour Code, which has not yet entered into force, will only enter into force on 1 May.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u118	We only see a reason to do so: as a diversion maneuver or mere exercise of political demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u120	The PSD has always argued that labour legislation should be discussed and negotiated with all the social partners. Moreover, labour law must be based on stability and predictability. That is what is required of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u121	Mr. Manuel Loff has no time to answer, but as you have two minutes for closure, I suggest you, Exa, will decide, that you may eventually give an answer to Mrs. Gabriela Fonseca. in this case, we proceed to the presentation of the bill of the Left Block, specifically the Bill No. 716 / XV / 1. a So we give the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Exactly six years ago, the Left Block presented, right here, a bill for legislative amendments on shiftwork and nightwork. As at that time, we do so today because of responsibility and the need for response to more than 835 000 workers in Portugal in this regime. The reasons for this need are widely known: biological problems; chronic fatigue; metabolic problems; the gap between working hours and social and family life; the empowerment of work accidents; early aging; and a lower quality of life than workers with a normal time. This, and much more, tells us the various academic studies in this area. The night and shift work actually covers more and more production areas, both in essential sectors and that cannot effectively stop, as well as in sectors whose need for permanent operation is already more doubtful. This is because, in Portugal, we have witnessed a trivialization of commitments for continuous work, allowing a very poor expansion of work arrangements that go through much longer times. Since 2009, in which both the law of work began to attack, little or nothing has changed in relation to the subject we are discussing today. In the State budget for 2020, a study on the impact of shiftwork was included. So far, this study does not exist and has not advanced in the protection of these workers. More recently, in the so-called Dignified Work Agenda, the Socialist Party chose, together with the PSD, to maintain the imbalance in this matter, leading proposals that had exactly to do with the protection of shift workers and night work. Therefore, from our point of view, it is not acceptable for us to continue without additional protection for these workers. Some of the essential aspects that we propose here today are, for example: clarifying the concepts of shiftwork, nightwork and nightwork; defining the rules on shift organisation, which allow for a lower disturbance of circadian rhythms and greater synchronisation with social life; ensuring a minimum period of 24 hours of rest in shift change; defining the maximum of 35 hours of work per week for those who are in this scheme; assigning the right to another day of work for every two years in this scheme; defining the value of paid increases and the anticipation of legal retirement age, without penalties, for these workers who, I recall, are already more than 835 000 in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake with this project is to balance an unequal relationship that is even more unequal by the physical, psychological and social impact of the people who have this kind of work regime. It is about protecting workers and, therefore, we will again see who actually votes in favour or against protection to workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u123	To submit Bill No. 726 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the public present: The Dignified Work Agenda, despite some advances it has made, has not been far enough in certain matters. An example of this is the subject we are discussing here today, on shiftwork and nightwork. We know that in 2021, more than 1, 1 million people worked between 8 hours of night and midnight, about a quarter of the employed population, workers who can suffer, as shown by the various studies, negative impacts on their health, from sleep disturbances, depressive symptoms, greater propensity to the occurrence of accidents, cardiovascular problems, hypertension, among so many others. In addition to health, it still has serious implications in family and social life, with the deprivation of participation in family events, due to the lack of coincidence of their schedules and also spending the time they should have with their children, family and friends, making it impossible to reconcile working life with family life. The current labour legislation does not recognize the impacts this form of work has on the lives of workers. in this sense, the NAP now presents another set of measures to strengthen the rights of these workers and, on the one hand, aims to ensure that this type of work is provided in justified and substantiated situations and, in indispensable cases, to ensure the rest times and to limit their duration. It is also important to strengthen the safety and health system at work, to also provide for the right of additional holidays and to increase payment by 30 %. Finally, and taking into account the impact these forms of work organisation have on the lives of workers, we consider the right to anticipate the retirement age. Finally, and no less important, we devote the nocturnal and shift work dispenser to the minor workers and the exemption of pregnant workers from working for shifts up to three years after delivery, as a way to allow greater stability and enable the best follow-up of the child, as indeed, is the most elementary justice. It is necessary to change the work paradigm. It happens that the paradigm and mentalities do not change if they are allowed, permanently, that they do not defend the rights of workers, especially those who see their health and family life impaired. Here it is not enough to ask to wear the shirt, not enough thanks, so little applause; it is necessary to guarantee the rights and fair compensation of these and these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u125	We shall now turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups which have no initiatives on this point. The Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group therefore has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking again today about the labour market, in particular the specificities of night work and shift work. I want to begin by expressing my sadness for seeing, systematically, the left in the language of attacks, even written, of patronage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u127	It's a Portuguese word!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u128	Let's call what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u129	... language with which they refer collectively, as Country, to entities of whom we need to grow and, yes, to pay better salaries to workers. We will also have to continue to talk about flexibility; on hybrid models possible in many professions, but also not possible in many others, a fluidity that is increasingly present between telework provided by technological means; on added difficulties such as, for example, the border with private life, some visibility of private life that passes through social networks; and all this requires additional challenges, never forgetting that rest and leisure time is a fundamental right. Much of this is also about cultural issues. I would like to highlight an interesting expression in the PCP bill, which is, and I quote, « [... ] successive changes to labour legislation have always resulted in the degradation of workers' rights [... ]. Do not keep on seeking. ” I'd like to write down two situations. First, the fact that it is not yet realized that flexibility does not necessarily bring precariousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u130	Bring it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u131	... and that rigidity undermines the dynamism and competitiveness of the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u132	It's just exploitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u133	Secondly, there is something we have to agree on - because, at the end of history, it is also natural to agree with some things - which is the following: in these years of socialist governance and management, really, it has resulted in a worse situation for workers. With regard to night and shift work, disagreeing with collectiveisms and what the labour market should be, it is clear that it has specificities that must be guarded, particularly at personal, social, family and, indeed, at health risks. A constant tendency to pursue and increase the tax burden of left-wing parties is seen, for example, in the proposal, and I quote, "increasing the single social rate to be paid by employers who use shift or night work. » All right, this seems full of virtue, but I ask: do you have a pharmacy or a payroll to pay more?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u134	I haven't read what's written there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u135	At present, shiftwork has a special regime, in terms of safety and health protection, and there are collective conventions that establish additional rewards, which seems very well given the increased penosity. In the articulates of the bills under consideration, it is part of a mental framework of negative, transversal rigidity and, in our view, there must be ever more space for collective bargaining. There are topics on which there are also European frameworks, such as medical examinations. I would also like to reiterate, so that there is no misunderstanding and distortion, that the improvement of the working environment, health, safety, even as a form of realization or happiness, is inherently defended by the liberals. With this defense, I end with a question or perplexity. We have seen in the projects measures such as the increase in the periodicity of medical examinations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u136	You have to conclude Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u137	Yes, Mr. President. Occupational medicine has a high preventive character with gain for all. I end with this perplexity: why do civil servants have work medicine?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u138	Don't you? Oh, my God! I have and I am a public servant!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u139	Why does a teacher have medicine at work in private, but a teacher in the public? This is just an example of how the State, as an employer, says : do what I say, do not do what I do. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u140	Let us now turn to the intervention of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party. Mr. Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The work is, for humanity, the means by which the person takes place. It is with the work that people become participants in the construction of a good, a common good, that must always be directed to others: first, for the family; secondly for society and for the world. It is for the work that man builds society and that he also becomes an active participant in this construction, making it more fair, more fraternal, more solidarity and more free. For these reasons, there will never be worthless work. However, indignity in the world of work happens only as a result and as a result of the victory of totalitarian ideologies about reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u142	They must have started with Cavaco Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u143	With totalitarian ideologies, greed, hatred and inequality are triumphant, and this leads to workers becoming victims of abuses that harm their dignity. On the other hand, we have the oppressors, who want to perpetuate in power by force and control of the product of man's work. I think we all agree on this. This introductory note is for you to understand what I want to tell you next. In Portugal, 49 years after 25 April, the life of those who live in their work very little, or even almost nothing, has obviously improved because of Marxist ideology—then totalitarian—which we have been working for more than 40 years. The Portuguese people increasingly realize that socialism is a machine of production of poverty, and today, I remember, we already have 4, 5 million poor people. But let's do this: according to the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics, the Portuguese continue to be of the most poorly paid workers in the European Union ; almost 3 million employees earn an order of only three digits; three out of every four workers earn less than 1000 € ; and 900 000 earn the minimum order. Mr. President and Mr. Members, this is the result of half a century of Marxist policies and false democracies, where class struggle has always been implemented — the struggle between workers and employers. For the sake of the workers, it is! But it should not be, therefore, whenever this dynamic happens, who wins is the State, as well as the party that controls it, with the increase of the tax burden on workers and employers. With socialism, precariousness and fragility grow, and dependence generates another form of slavery: subsidiarity. And so, by waving with the ghost of the extreme right, they are buying millions of votes, with the taxes of workers and companies that actually generate development. [[Risos do L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u144	They're meat and bone. They're not ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u145	To see the parties that were responsible for management present, as a magic pass, proposals that seem to care about the workers is at least embarrassing. Mr. President and Mr. Members, shift work, as well as night work, presents challenges for the physical and mental health of those who are forced to earn their bread under these conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u146	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u147	I will now finish, Mr President. If, on the one hand, it is important for employers to take these factors into account, it is also essential that the Socialist Government abide by and enforce all the recommendations of the ILO (International Labour Organization) and not just part of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u148	It's totalitarianism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u149	Those who work in shifts know that their enemies are not the bosses, but the politicians of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u150	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares now has the floor by the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u151	Mr. President, I confess that I'm still a little bit...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u152	Shake it off!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u153	... shaken by the fact that I finally realized that, except for the first two years of my life, which were still under dictatorship—but apparently there was no problem there—in the next 48 years I lived under totalitarian Marxism,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ... including during the Coelho and Paulo Portas Government, the Troika, the IMF (International Monetary Fund), these brave totalitarian Marxists! Well, finally! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u154	Look, it's time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u155	This proposal from the CFP comes to us from something which, I think, is obvious to all. There is no need to explain how bad it does to health night and shift work. There is no need to explain how workers and workers who work at night and in shifts need special protection. Perhaps it is necessary to remember that it is 10 % of our population, because to 1 million people working at night, about 400 000 people working in shifts should still be added. So we're talking about a lot of people. Both the PCP proposal, Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. the, like the proposals of the Left Block and the PAN that are dragged with it go in the right direction, including in relation to some issues that are of good sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u156	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u157	... as, for example, the protection to pregnant women who still do night work and shift work, and therefore the Free will accompany-CL- them. And I don't think they'll bring Marxist totalitarianism, but then we'll see if they're approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u158	We now turn to the intervention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which is why Mrs Rita Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the International Labour Organization began the preparatory work for the preparation of Agenda 2030, one of the main priorities identified in public consultation was that of decent work. by dignifying work, creating a fair wage policy, we know that we will boost the local economy, increase purchasing power, leverage growth and development of companies. We know that the development of companies enables the hiring of more workers, with better working conditions and with better remuneration, and we know that better remuneration means more tax revenue, which is essential in the financing of social protection measures for those who are still in a fragile situation. This cycle of generating and causing conditions and dignity to the worker has been implemented over recent years through policies and measures of the Socialist Party. In recent years, the Government has established a set of major priorities in regulating the labour market with a view to promoting decent work, promoting quality employment and reducing precariousness. Since 2015, these priorities have been translated into different public policy initiatives and programmes, including active employment and training policies, the programmed and progressive increase in the national minimum wage and the promotion of collective bargaining. Promoting employment, protecting businesses, guaranteeing more and better labour rights, more and better social protection, promoting social dialogue and achieving true gender equality are central issues, which must call on us all, always aiming for peace and social justice and combating inequalities. from now on, we will celebrate another Workers' Day and also on that day will come into force the dignified Work Agenda. With the pandemic, the weaknesses of the most precarious segments of the labour market, such as those of young people, workers with non-permanent contracts, undeclared work, exploitation of non-Portuguese workers or even temporary work, were exposed. This legislation strengthens and creates rights: it reduces the experimental period, criminalizes undeclared work, creates a labor principle for workers of the platforms, strengthens the rights of workers in telework, expands the parental leave for the father, strengthens the rights of informal caregivers, simplifies the process of justifying shortcomings, among many others. They are more than 70 measures, which convey concern with young people, whose situation and perspectives are particularly affected by exposure to atypical forms of employment, but also a set of structural challenges, such as combating precariousness, improving workers' incomes, mobilizing new tools to encourage collective bargaining and preventing bargaining voids, promoting a more balanced reconciliation between professional, family and personal life and responding to changes in work induced by digital transition, as well as strengthening public services in the labour and social security field. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the regulation of the night work and shift work system now confronts us with political options. We defend an inclusive framework of work, which allows people access to welfare standards that facilitate the development and achievement of their goals of life. The legal regime of night work and shiftwork has earned this bank all the attention. We recognize him and thank the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this issue. It is a reality that represents many workers, that affects many families and that the PS has always cared with special care. For this reason, labour legislation already provides for a set of particular conditions with regard to the organisation of work by shift and night, and also provides for specific labour standards for compensatory rights for these workers, as well as the guarantee of conditions of safety and health at work, which are specific, which are contained in the Labour Code and which apply to the protection of the rights and working conditions of these workers. Nevertheless, we are aware that we face new issues and challenges and that there are issues that we will always have the ambition to improve. But we cannot ignore the social consultation — the more many of these projects represent structural changes of enormous financial impact — regulating night and shift work, which is a matter, par excellence, of collective bargaining. We always want the best solutions. Our ambition is to achieve the best work regime. How do you do that? There is a process of reflection and debate, with scope and plurality, involving the social partners from the outset. And on this, the Socialist Party has proved that it knows how to do so, with the historical approval of the income agreement. For the PS, it is within this broad and plural process of hearing and social dialogue that conclusions should be drawn and the night and shift work arrangements re-assessed in Portugal. We all have the right to a life worthy of poverty, where each individual can develop all his or her potential. We all have a role to play, we all have to be involved. These values must be all of them. Surely they are the values of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u160	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today changes to labour legislation to strengthen workers' rights under the night and shift work regime. In fact, the PSD Parliamentary Group recognises that this is an extremely important issue, which deserves our deepest and most serious reflection. However, we must not fail to regret that these initiatives brought by the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN, which we are debating today are not well-intentioned because these parties do not want to promote a serious and responsible debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u163	Another PSD politicism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u164	And I'm going to explain why they are not well-intentioned: from then on, because all these initiatives are to mark the mere political agenda, are to mark the political space of these parties, because we are only three days from Labour Day, three days from 1. May. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, the intention, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it was to bring up the debate on employment, whatever it was. The interest was this, it was pure and simply this!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u165	That's a politicism!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u166	In fact, these initiatives do not go through a political scene, because these parties only want to create the illusion that they are very concerned about the workers. Its only concern is to show that they are concerned when, in fact, they are not. As I said, because we're three days from 1. the May one, the left parties, afraid of losing the electorate they both dispute, did not do more than reheat initiatives, i.e. went to the bau to look for initiatives that have already been briefly discussed, voted and plunged by this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u168	Look at political opportunism there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u169	Actually—see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — these initiatives we are discussing today have been discussed in 2001 in the Government of António Guterres, in 2006 in the Government of José Socrates, in 2017 and also in 2020 in the Government of Management, which you supported, led by Antonio Costa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u170	They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u171	They always voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u172	... but, more recently, all these initiatives have been discussed, voted and plummeted, in the context of the misappropriate work agenda. [[PSD applause.]] In other words, all these parties are insisting on proposals to amend the Labour Code, only two months after the completion of the legislative process...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u174	... of the many amendments that will be introduced into the Labour Code and before, even before, these amendments come into force, which will only take place on May 1st, precisely on Workers' Day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u175	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u176	Yes, sir, I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, it is such a lightness that these parties present changes to labour legislation, which we are already in 23. the amendment to the Labour Code in just 14 years, i.e. since the entry into force of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u177	Look at our persistence! We can't be more persistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u178	More serious than all this, sirs. Members, it is these parties that bring today the debate initiatives which seek to make profound changes to the Labour Code on night work and on shifts, in particular by aggravating contributions to social security without having a social dialogue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u180	... to the wake of social consultation, and therefore to the workers' side, to the outside of companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u181	This is a real disregard for social consultation and a reduction in social consultation. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u182	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is to render a bad service to our economy and our workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u184	For a second intervention in this debate, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u185	Mr President, at the end of this debate, we can conclude a few things. The arrival brings the fantasy of Marxism in Portugal 50 years ago. I don't know where this came from. [[Mr Rita Matias's laughs.]] The Liberal Initiative is concerned that we speak of patronage when, in the dictionary itself, one of the definitions of « patronage» is « quality or authority of patronage ». But that is the only concern of the Liberal Initiative. PSD says we present projects because of dates. Mrs Deputy, first of all, it was still the PSD to decide when the Left Block presented a particular issue or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u187	It's always April 28th! For the year, on April 28, we will be discussing this again!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u188	Secondly, it only showed what we already knew: the PSD does not want to know about workers' rights. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PSD Members Clara Marques Mendes and Ofélia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u189	Mrs Deputy—and this also serves for the Socialist Party, which, in fact, in its speech, did not say anything about this subject— she referred to the Dignified Work Agenda, but PS and PSD dropped, in this context, the proposals that had to do with exactly shift and night work. [[PS Member Protests Marcos Perestrello.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u190	He didn't go to social concert! You're authorities!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u191	So, in conclusion, Mr. President, what I'm asking the PS and PSD is that... [[Protests by PSD Members Clara Marques Mendes and Ofélia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u192	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u193	I'm trying, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u194	It's the bad conscience! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u195	I'm just asking for a moment. You have to let the honourable Member continue. She'll, in fact, finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u196	I'll finish, yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u197	Mrs. Isabel Pires, be kind enough to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u198	Mr President, the question that I leave to the PS and PSD is this: what will you continue to say to the growing number — already nearly 1 million — of workers working in shifts and at nighttime and who have serious health problems due to this working condition, but who do not have any special protection? What are you gonna keep telling them? It's just that soon as we're near the 1st. the May one, we cannot adopt measures that protect workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u199	No, they can, they can!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u200	That, yes, is politicism, Your Honor! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u201	I believe that we are in a position to move forward towards the conclusion of this debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Manuel Loff to close this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u202	Mr President, some interventions have indeed been extraordinary. Mr Ofelia Ramos accuses us of what it was...? Demagogy? — in a tone that draws them closer, increasingly, to the other side of the bench, to the right,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...of an extraordinary thing: accuses us of being opportunistic, because we are three days from 1. May. It was the honourable Member who recognized and remembered, here...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u203	Let's discuss this on the 24th!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u204	Listen to me: It was the honourable Member who acknowledged here that we presented the project in 2001, in 2017 and 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u206	First: I don't know how many days 2001 is 1. May 2023? [[PCP laughter.]] Second : did you notice the number of this project? It is the first project presented by the PCP in this legislature. Clearly, we have the right to persist! Now, Mrs. Gabriela Fonseca, we are in the same place where we have always been, exactly like the PSD. The PSD has always voted against any proposal for recognition—which is what is under discussion—of the specific rights of those working in shifts or at night hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u207	We defend social dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u208	You have never expressed any concern in this regard—never! -,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... in fact, say pass, when in 2017 we presented this project, the Socialist Party was a minority in this House, so you could have perfectly approved the project with us. Solve the problem! [[PCP applause.]] It is not the socialist majority that prevents this, it is the socialist majority, social-democrat and the rest of the right,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...that, of course, is not at least concerned with the specific consequences and special rights to protect the health, retirement and life of those who are forced to work on shifts.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u209	Life! That's it, people's lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u210	They don't want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u211	And what did they do in the management?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u212	Mrs Carla Castro, to me, I am disgusting this story of mental rigidity — our mental rigidity, that is how she accused us. Mental rigidity, let me, is to walk systematically not to read the PCP projects. On pharmacy, at no time did we say that a pharmacy could not implement nighttime. Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u213	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u214	This project, like other projects we have presented here, aims to restrict, within the framework of the Labour Code, the resource that the bosses – it is true, they are bosses, they are not workers, I just remember...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u215	Mr. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u216	I'll finish. I remember only one regime, the franchisor in Spain — a dictatorship — which called the employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u217	The bosses don't work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u218	They're not the devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u219	The employers may not have the right to freely oblige and impose on workers as a model of work night work or shift work. What we say is that the use of this type of work should be restricted. And, yes, it is true, Mr. Members of the PSD and PS, our concern, clearly, with social consultation or not, is always on the same side, and, you know, it is the same side as always: it is the side of the work and it is the side of the workers. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u220	This project that Álvaro Cunhal did was good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u221	Mr. Manuel Loff, if I may now, I would like to congratulate you on your self-sufficientness, because, despite all the surrounding noise, you are very much at the end of your speech. Thus, we move to point three of our order of business, which has to do with the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 593 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government set up a committee to include the Preventive Box of Lawyers and Applicants ( CPAS) in the general social security regime by conducting an audit of its functioning and evaluating alternative models of social protection, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 642 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Withdraws from the Institute of Financial Management of Social Security, IP competence for the establishment and instruction of debt enforcement procedures to the Counsel's Safety Box and Applicants, 643 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure access to the social security contribution scheme to lawyers, applicants and implementing agents, 719 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Consecrates the right of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents linked to the subordinated employment contract and exclusively opting for the social security contribution scheme, closes certain deadlines to those of the general social security scheme and provides for the possibility of transferring contributions to CPAS which do not meet the guarantee deadline, 724 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It provides for the possibility of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents to opt between the social security contribution scheme or the CPAS and repeals the competence of social security in the establishment of CPAS debt enforcement procedures and 728 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures lawyers, applicants and implementing agents the possibility of choosing the contribution scheme. To present the Socialist Party project, Mrs. Joana Sá Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has agreed to schedule this debate, aware of the responsibility of those presenting themselves in the policy to solve people's problems. In the past legislature, we joined the thousands of voices of lawyers, solicitors and implementing agents. We have started a path of dialogue, which we now have the opportunity to resume. There are about 40 000 professionals in our country who must be part of the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box. This is today the only safety deposit box that survived the social security parallel regimes, built essentially in the previous regime, having been designed for a context in which the exercise of these professions was quite distinct. The Journalists' Box was extinguished in March 2012 and the Bankers' Box was extinct in January 2011. In both cases, workers were integrated into Social Security. from this reality, it only survived the CPAS. 76 years have passed since the creation of CPAS, and very little the system has adapted. Proletarianization in these professions, especially in young people, requires an improved protection and security response. Its social design, based on mandatory discounts that are not related to the yields taken, is deeply inadequate. Does anyone understand that, in a rule of law, a professional ceases to exercise his profession because he is undergoing chemotherapy treatments and that his system does not give him a single cent during that period? No, no, no. Does anyone understand that, in a rule of law, a professional who is a father or a mother cannot fully dedicate himself to his child in the early days of life? No, no, no. Does anyone understand that, in a rule of law, a professional is temporarily unemployed and is thrown into an indigent situation by his own system? No, no, no. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all this, and not ignoring that this is a complex problem, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents a project for the creation of a committee that would include the possible integration of CPAS into the general social security regime, conducting an audit to its functioning and evaluating alternative models of social protection. In order for this House to be able to intervene on the basis of this problem, we understand that it is useful and it is serious that some necessary procedures should be developed first. We therefore propose that an audit be carried out in view of the clearance of the assets of the CPAS and its charges, as well as the conditions for the payment of pensions. We also propose that the committee set up be able, in close dialogue with all actors: firstly, to consider the requirements and impacts of possible integration of beneficiaries into the social security system; secondly, to define possible transition phases between schemes; thirdly, to consider the period during which the current CAPA regime becomes optional, in particular in situations where there is currently a double compulsory taxation; fourthly, to estimate the financial charges arising from each of the transitional stages adopted; and, finally, to consider, alternatively to integration, a new scheme, which has as rules the non-insurance of income for the calculation of contributions, the greatest extent of social protection, the guarantee of a balanced resolution plan for the outstanding values that have been originated by the fact that the professionals have not taken income compatible with the mandatory discounts, as well as respect for the rights acquired. The study and the conclusions of the committee, while respecting all these proposed objectives, will be the best compass for this House to decide on which way to go. This is a regime that does not comply with the rules and principles of a modern social state. It is a system that, as it is, affects many and interests very few. We therefore need to give these thousands of professionals a system of social protection worthy of the rule of law in which we live. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u223	To present the projects of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the dignified representatives of bodies of the Advocates' Order and, in your persons, also all lawyers, solicitors and implementing agents, who are, in fact, those who suffer, in their lives, the result of the insufficiency of a social security system that does not meet the minimum social protection objectives that are required in the twenty-first century. I am glad that your struggle has led a referendum in the Order of Advocates to say that it is unacceptable to force lawyers and lawyers to have a system of security that does not meet their needs and that they require the obvious: that what is permitted to all and all other workers in Portugal, whether from liberal professions or not, would also be allowed to them, that is, access to a system of security promoted by the State, that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic says must be unified — and that means that it must be for all and for all — that is social security. So, I'm glad you did that fight. But let me also say that, although the Left Block has presented two legislative initiatives to discuss this issue, because soon the Socialist Party has come back, with a draft resolution, so that we can have this debate. It is unfortunate that the Socialist Party will only do this for the fire, just do this to mark the agenda, just do this to run after what the Left Block presented. It had already done so in January 2021, when the Left Block scheduled to debate a bill that provided for the integration of CPAS into social security. at that time, the Socialist Party had a minority in this Parliament, and it is curious how the Socialist Party, in minority, found it relevant to present a bill—of law! — to promote the establishment of a committee for the possible integration of CPAS into the general social security system. But this project, at the will of the Socialist Party, went down to committee, without a vote, and was there, until the Assembly was dissolved. The Socialist Party will say: "Well, we didn't have time..." He spent a year in the commission, with no time for anything. The Socialist Party did not want to take the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u225	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u226	Then came the elections, the Socialist Party had the absolute majority, and, soon at the first hearing to the Minister of Justice in Parliament, the Left Block asked him: « And then, Minister, on this subject, with these commitments from the Socialist Party, what will you do? Do not keep on seeking. ” I think there is no suspense about her reply, which was: "We will create a working group. » Now, this was on May 4, 2022, it does on Friday next week one year. Has anyone seen any workgroups? You need to bring a magnifying glass, maybe a telescope, because he's not around, at least he's not looking naked, nobody knows him.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u227	The working group is on WhatsApp, you'll see whatsApp! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u228	So, go on, what does the Socialist Party do? Now it does not present a bill, but it does present a draft resolution. For what? In order for the Government to create what the Minister has already said that it should create and that the Socialist Party said that the Assembly of the Republic could create, but that it has never been created, because it only serves to deceive the lawyers and lawyers of this country. This is unacceptable, Mrs. Joana Sá Pereira. It's unacceptable, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party. So stop playing with serious things and we're actually going to deal with what needs to be dealt with, approving these left block projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u229	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. Mr Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u230	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, it is wrong to come to this debate — scheduled by the Socialist Party, curiously! — to say that the Socialist Party wants to deceive the professionals to whom we want to answer today. It is wrong for you because, and we can talk about it, the proposal presented by the Left Block here is not a serious proposal, and you know that it is not. You know that it is not a serious proposal which, in the previous legislature, presented a solution, which was the integration of lawyers into social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u231	The PS didn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u232	And what's the Block doing now? It comes to create an optional regime, creating the cover, a false cover, for all these professionals, that the existence of the option of the regime solves all the problems of the system. You know that's not true and it's not serious. The Socialist Party has presented itself in this debate with seriousness. You do not know what the impact of the integration of these beneficiaries into social security is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He does not know the sustainability conditions of integrating these beneficiaries into social security. You do not know how the transition is made to acquired rights. The honourable Member does not know what the real capacity of the CPAS, its heritage, the pension payment condition and, therefore, what you are presenting here today is a project that is not serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u234	You know it's not serious, and that's why you changed it from past legislation. So, Mr. Deputy, very telegraphically, the Socialist Party presents itself here with a project that seeks to study, to understand what are the ways to solve the problem of these professionals. It would be much easier to come here to deceive these professionals, offering solutions that are not real. He knew perfectly well, and that was a subject discussed in the previous legislation, which was the term and expression for which he was known during the discussion of optionality — « there would be a ban ». That was the term and it was very well synthesizing what was at stake. Mr Deputy, when he wants to create the option, he knows he's doing something: he knows he's killing both regimes. He's killing CPAS and killing social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u235	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u236	This is a tremendous irresponsibility of the Left Block to which the Socialist Party will never adhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u237	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u238	Mr President, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, as far as seriousness is concerned, we are going to talk about the projects of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party presented a bill not to comply with the past legislation. It represents it, as draft resolution, to recommend things to the Government — exactly the same statement of reasons, word for word. It's been two years, the PS has an absolute majority a year ago, and what did you do? Zero! And it's the Left Block that's deceiving lawyers? Oh, my God! The Socialist Party had already said, two years ago, about the initiative of the Left Block, that it was not serious. Why? Because I anticipated the integration of CPAS into social security. We have changed the initiative and it is still not serious. Why? Because the only ones who find themselves serious are those who are, in fact, misleading lawyers and lawyers, which is the Socialist Party. Does the honourable Member now tell us that we want to question social security, but does she know anything about the technical capacity of social security?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u239	And do you know the honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u240	Do you know how it is currently treated, for example, the reality of a worker who works in Portugal and who then works for a few years abroad? This is not a technical problem because, over the decades, the integration of various social security systems and subsystems has been done without any problems. But now, you want a daddy for what? Not to do anything. That is the responsibility of the Socialist Party: do nothing. In the meantime, all the examples that Mrs Deputies know, and which she has given in the rostrum, will continue. All of them! That is the responsibility of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u241	To submit Bill No. 719 / XV / 1. a ( L ), I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whoever is a liberal worker does not deserve punishment, namely, the punishment of having to contribute to two different welfare systems. And in this case, perhaps he still has a triple punishment which is, if the contributions to one of them have not lasted long enough, to end up having them frozen, for losing access to them when they should enjoy them. The Free, in the electoral programme with which it was presented to the elections last year, had a proposal to ensure the sustainability of inclusive public social security, strengthening social protection in case of illness, disability or old age, for lawyers and applicants, integrating the specific contribution system of these professions into the general and more secure social security regime. While this integration is not real, today's proposal is different and assumedly more modest and limited, but it aims to make a path in the direction we stand for. It is also in the sense of what the Advocates' Order itself defends when, in June 2021, he made a referendum in which the absolute majority of lawyers chose to opt, that is, to be able to choose between the Advocates' and Applicants' Preventive Box and social security, Security Box. The problem of the lack of guarantees of the compulsory system was particularly evident during the pandemic period, where the breakdown of income which occurred, in the background, only allowed the payment of compulsory contributions to be deferred or reduced the contribution scale. There was no support for lawyers who were affected in their incomes. The system is therefore not a guarantee. In case of illness, for example, he grants disability allowances after 10 years of contributions if the disability is final and allowing temporary suspension of payment of contributions in case of serious illness and parenthood, but without unemployment benefit or parental benefit. So, very quickly in the short time now available, what does the Free Project want? On the one hand, to amend the deadlines for the prescription of pension pensions, which was one year and goes on to five years; on the other hand, to allow the period of contributions which give entitlement to the disability pension from 10 years to 3 years; and to allow, in the case of lawyers, applicants and enforcers of justice who have, in addition to the liberal professional system, a contract of employment, there is a choice between CPAS and social security. We know that we do not solve the problem of everyone — those who have contracts are a minority — but we take a step towards solving a problem that everyone recognises and which seems to be delayed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u243	To submit Bill No. 724 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, present public, I also welcome the representatives of the Advocates' Order who are attending this plenary session. Today we resume an old discussion, a discussion that seems to be only about a question of contribution schemes, but which is far from that. It is a matter of dignity — dignity in the disease, parenthood, assistance to the family, unemployment and reform of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents. We speak of professionals who often say that they are essential to justice, but for whom the inadequacy of their social security fund puts them in an unsustainable situation of uncertainty. A lawyer who has just been a mother has no right to a true parental leave. A sick lawyer is forced to continue working because he has no protection in the disease. As if that were not enough, delaying a disease trial is an almost impossible mission and a completely atrocious cold. Justice is blind and it is also the contributions to the CPAS which is independent of the incomes of professionals who have actually increased monthly or who have not increased any income. This regime is not fair, it is not sufficient and it is not compatible with the state of social law. This lack of response and guarantee of the most basic rights became very clear during the pandemic and is still being dragged. Despite all this, I cannot but leave a note here to the Socialist Party, because it presents an initiative that should have been implemented for a long time. I recall that at the end of 2021, the NAP presented an initiative for the Government, in conjunction with the CPAS and professional orders, to prepare and present to the Assembly of the Republic a study on the feasibility of the integration of the CAPS into social security, something that has not only been accomplished so far, as is now proposed by the Socialist Party. Now, year by year, we will continue to postpone what is the solution pressingly for all these professionals who, I say again, say are essential for justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP does not want lawyers in fact to have this limitation that they cannot freely choose their social protection system between the CPAS and the general social security regime. In fact, it is the professionals who express their will, a will that almost two years ago, including through referendum, have expressed very clearly and must also be respected. All that is required is to respect this will and the dignity of these professionals and to read accordingly. I only have one note to finish. We fully trust social security that, despite all its failures, it has already demonstrated over the years that it has the greatest capacity, not only as an implementing technique, for the integration of the various systems that have so far existed from a providential point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u246	To submit Bill No. 728 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was interesting to see, at the beginning of this debate, this hijacking of the former cassal, i.e. of the Socialist Party and the Left Block, which, during the last few years and since 2015, have ruled Portugal. It was interesting to see this because, until now, we have seen the question of "the last year" and "in the last year it did not, because there is a majority of the Socialist Party", but we realize that, from 2015 until last year, the Left Block has always been, but always, next to the Socialist Party and knew perfectly that it had the conditions to impose what it wanted and its measures, but never managed to do so. It is now critical of the Socialist Party's working group — and we also criticise and we will get there — but it was the Left Block that, in the last 15 days, not in working groups, but in groups of WhatsApp, urged lawyers and applicants to be here, with the message that it would be important to support the measures on the left, feeding a rhetoric that says, in the messages sent to the applicants and lawyers, that, if the right is to return to power, then there is that nothing will never be done. So the working group that the Left Block proposed was another, but we are very careful. This issue of CPAS is ridiculous. In the last few days, we have talked a lot about April 25th, freedom, pluralism, diversity and rights. Three days from 1. the May one, in which they so much shout about the rights of workers, we continue to limit that lawyers and applicants choose whether they want to be in the CPAS or whether they want to be in social security. As a result of everything that has been the lack of political vision of the last 49 years, today, before the law, jurisprudence, eloquence and justice, we realize that the Portuguese judicial system is getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u249	We perceive the problems with the justice officers on the street to manifest themselves; we perceive the problem with the registrar and notarial professionals; we perceive the problem with the reintegration technicians; and we continue to perceive the disrespect by lawyers and applicants that happens in this country. over the years, we don't deal with the problem, we're gonna let it go. Today, what the Socialist Party brings to this House is: "We will present a draft resolution. » This as if lawyers and applicants did not know what it meant. The bottom line is a recommendation to the Government, supported by VV. For example, to create a working group. It is a committee that will issue a report, which means that it will take more than 30 or 40 years after lawyers and applicants have expressed their will in the referendum done internally in the Order of Advocates. We also argue that it must be optional, but we do not have an irresponsible attitude and we consider that there are all those who have so far discounted for the CPAS and for whom you have never wanted to look. They never wanted to solve any of these problems, because over the years it was complex, it was an attitude they did not want to take. There are other parties who have had the position of the 'we are not going to get into this' and they are, as always, to set themselves up behind stickers, to stand aside from the discussion because they think that they should do absolutely nothing, thus maintaining the freedom of the Left Block to say that 'if the right one comes, nothing is done'. The right, in this Parliament, is us, we have no doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u251	And, therefore, we are absolutely certain of what we want: to be optional and give the right of choice, the right that it allowed on 25 April, the freedom that gave us diversity and pluralism of opinion. Why don't you let the lawyers? Why don't you allow the applicants? Why do we have to continue to watch disease situations, ridiculous situations that we expose to these professionals, professionals who are so essential to maintain legal certainty in our country? So, Mr President, we have this position, which is clear, and without fear, we think that it cannot continue the process as it is. A few days ago he told us: « enough, enough to stain the name of the institutions, enough to stain Portugal. It is enough to continue to look at this Parliament as if it were anything else, in which we did not assume our responsibility. It's enough here too to say that we're not doing anything and that we're shooting at the side. It comes and we have to solve this problem once and for all, preventing these professionals — who are more than 40 000 in Portugal — from being despised and having no respect in the House of Democracy, who makes the laws so that they can execute them and defend them out there. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u252	Having seen the presentations of legislative initiatives, we have entered the debate period. To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the representatives of the Advocates' Order here present. The Advocates and Applicants' Safety Board has been established to grant retirement pensions and disability benefits to their beneficiaries. The CPAS scheme is mandatory for lawyers and applicants, based on discounts that are not related to the truly taken income, imposing a minimum monthly discount of almost €268 for all its members, regardless of their income. The CPAS does not provide support in situations of disease, economic deficiency, in situations of family care and parenthood, thus different from the social protection conferred by social security. I would like to point out three problems, of course, the unadjusted compulsory discount, particularly for young people at the beginning of their careers or professionals with little incomes, whose payment, taking into account the value concerned, is obviously disproportionate, even if there have been growing situations of non-compliance, which, as it appears, are at around 20 %. Secondly, the vulnerability to the breakdown of income and respect for the indexed contribution capacity to real income should be assured to beneficiaries of all pension systems. Thirdly, it is clear that the social security system is not protected. in this case, in particular diseases and family care take particular visibility and concern. This problem is more broad. The deprotection of liberal professionals has broad expressions at this level and I would like to highlight, in particular, the challenge of parenthood and maternity. Many women lawyers, like other liberal professionals, are discouraged from having children, not having the least time, even to breastfeed, because they have no financial support. I believe that this is a subject that should be reconsidered quickly. in a society that says that it wants to protect maternity—with the demographic challenge we have—and that it wants to confer rights, this is clearly an attack on these rights. I would like to point out that the pandemic has brought, in relation to liberal professionals and also to the specific case of lawyers and applicants, a great visibility to this problem and perhaps a greater awareness of society in general in the face of risk and deprotection. There is, however, a need to frame all this. The mere exercise of freedom of choice, as is often addressed, between CPAS and social security, is simplistic, because it is important to ensure financial sustainability of what remains. We therefore see as positive the proposal presented today for the study of the integration of CPAS into social security, but we must ensure, on the one hand, that it is a working group on a topic that needs to be resolved and that it is not to be seen. On the other hand, we should go further, not just in an integration, or not, of the CPAS, but in the sense of an integrated solution for liberal professionals. By the way, why not suggest working on both fronts? On the one hand, working on the basis, including the various types of protection, flexible and modular solutions and, on the other hand, as the Liberal Initiative advocates, having supplementary capitalisation schemes—in this case, we defend a voluntary pillar and another mandatory pillar. We must move forward in this system of social security and pensions and even say that the expression «is at the time of reform» has never been so applicable. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u254	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have already been a lawyer for 31 years and I am a contributor to the CPAS, knowing very well the subject we are discussing today. The Government's lack of support for lawyers has been undeniable and it was not only during the pandemic that this support was lacking. Lawyers and other CPAS beneficiaries pay taxes, like all citizens, and these taxes contribute to government revenue. It is fair that the State can also contribute to the sustainability of the CPAS by allocating to that effect certain revenues that can compensate for the termination of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But the government has voted the lawyers to the deepest contempt, disregarding a whole class of professionals who are absolutely indispensable to the functioning of justice and to the realization of the rule of democratic law and which have constitutional consecration, expressly available the article...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u256	Mr. Member, allow me to interrupt you. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please be as quiet as possible. It is possible to travel to the Chamber and speak, as one must speak, with a level of silence that allows us all to hear the speaker. I apologize and please proceed, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u257	Then it's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. It expressly provides for Article 208. that of the Constitution that « the law ensures the immunities necessary for the exercise of the mandate and regulates forensic sponsorship as an essential element of the administration of justice », while the government's clear disregard of the humiliation and harassment of the fees tables of lawyers who provide legal support and which the Government has quantified in 8 cents. The debate we are discussing is very serious, and the lives of thousands of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents and their families are at stake. [[PSD applause.]] The legitimate expectations of those who now start a life of work as a liberal professional and of those who, in good faith, with great personal effort and even deprivation, scrupulously fulfilling the existing legislation, have come to discount for the CPAS, or even those who have already discounted a whole life, always in conviction and in the most serious belief that they are building their reform in old age and assistance in times of accident. There are legislative initiatives that propose that it be given the option of opting for the social security system or the CPAS. The debate has to be serious, I repeat, and we all know that it would be to condemn CPAS to bankruptcy, dragging with it all those who trusted in the existing legal framework and who gave CPAS their security. This cannot of course happen, which is why we understand that there cannot be an optional regime: either it is still CPAS or it is integrated in social security, there is no third way. However, this integration is happening — we have doubts that this is the way — it will always have to ensure the legitimately acquired rights of thousands of lawyers and other beneficiaries of the CPAS, either in terms of the value of the reforms to which they have discounted, or in terms of the exercise of rights. The CPAS is far from ideal, but social security is also ideal. They're not the beast and the beast. [[PSD applause.]] It is enough to see the miserable pensions that the Portuguese receive from social security, the intolerable delay in the allocation of these pensions and the problem of sustainability with which we also debate to realize that it is wrong and that it works badly. The PSD agrees with the need for a thorough and serious study to be decided once and for all the situation of the CPAS. [[PSD applause.]] You proposed that in the past legislature. However, it should be recalled that the Government failed to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 375 / 2021 of 29 December which recommended that the Government prepare and submit to the Assembly of the Republic a study on the feasibility of integrating CPAS into social security. It is reiterated that this study was not done and that it should be done. We need to put an end to the idea of instability which has been created around the safety of lawyers, giving them the security and predictability necessary for these professionals to feel safe and can trust that the contributions they pay will have the proper return of support when they need it. Fundamentally, the CPAS reinvents itself, adapts itself to current times and can also develop the social protection needed for its beneficiaries and that they have claimed over the years, being clear the dissatisfaction they have with their predictability. Dissatisfaction is also present in the outcome of the referendum carried out by the Order of Advocates, although in that referendum it was possible to vote who had no debt contributions to the CPAS. There are changes that will have to be made by the CPAS, such as setting new contributory and intermediate steps, and greatly strengthening the care aspect. It is necessary to change the tax system so that contributions to the CPAS also enter the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) of whom it is in the simplified general regime. It should also be noted that CPAS has to be able to access the courts for the collection of due monthly contributions and not paid by its beneficiaries. CPAS has not only this right as the duty to do, even with respect to all those who do and who are harmed by the failure of others. The legislation adopted in Law No 2 / 2020, which defines the competence to process the executive process for debts to the CPAS, should therefore be applied, subject to this Parliament's direct liability for the prescription of thousands of euros of debts to the CPAS. I conclude by saying that the PSD is strongly committed to ensuring that the beneficiaries of the CPAS can have adequate and necessary social security, assistance and protection, and it is urgent to stabilize this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u259	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Bastonária and other members of the Advocates' Order, Advocates: The starting point for this discussion is not difficult to identify. The financial situation of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Board has been deteriorating and everything points to a structural financial imbalance. The financial problem of CPAS is not only a problem of debts accumulated due to the lack of payment of contributions, it is even a problem of structural imbalance which already requires the disposal of assets to be able to pay pensions and other benefits. Contributing obligations on lawyers and applicants are often distorted by their ability to contribute, placing these professionals in difficult situations. CPAS is essentially set up as a pension fund and not as a broad social protection system and, in fact, lawyers and applicants need a social protection system that includes pension payments, but also coverage in eventualities such as sickness, maternity, paternity, disability or unemployment. The socio-professional framework of lawyers and applicants is not homogeneous, but the lack of an adequate social protection system is generally felt. This is the starting point for the discussion on the future of CPAS and the social protection of lawyers and applicants, there are five sets of essential questions to which we need to answer so that we can seriously talk about solutions for lawyers and applicants. Firstly, should the basic option be to safeguard the CAPS financially and maintain its contribution regime or, on the contrary, the integration of lawyers and applicants into social security? Secondly, can the integration of CPAS into social security be done automatically by placing the contributions of the other workers to support this financial hole, or should solutions be found that avoid that consequence? Third, by transferring CPAS to social security, will its contributions be defined on the basis of income actually obtained or presumed? Will they be bigger or smaller than those that they already have to endure for the CPAS? What social protection will be guaranteed to them in the event of sickness, maternity, paternity, disability or unemployment? What pension values will you receive? Fourth : how will the contribution careers, however constructed in accordance with the rules of the CPAS, be considered in a framework of integration into social security? Fifth: can a free option solution be admitted for lawyers and applicants, even knowing that this may mean that the CPAS will one day cease to receive the necessary contributions to pay the pensions of the current pensioners and who is close to retirement? Without prejudice to these questions, the PCP option aims at integrating the CPAS into Social Security, applying it to lawyers and applicants of a scheme covering the eventualities in which there is a need for social protection, with appropriate contributions to the effective contribution capacity of the beneficiaries, and without it being charged with supporting the other workers who are discounted for Social Security. There are, however, no elements that allow us today to say with certainty and with certainty which solutions correspond to this framework, which is why we have chosen not to demagogy with false promises of solution. The PCP's favourable vote on the Left Block project should be understood as a contribution so that the decision area on this issue is the Assembly of the Republic and that, by collecting the response elements to each of the set of issues we have mentioned, appropriate decisions are taken by the Assembly of the Republic so that the social protection of lawyers and applicants will not again be a field for demagogy or denial of social rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u261	To close the debate on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that all the parliamentary groups involved in the debate have converged on the idea that this is a system that has failed many of its beneficiaries. Of course: in family projects, because it prevents a true exercise of parenthood; in times of illness, because it does not provide support to those who, fundamentally, cannot exercise their profession; and also in contexts of unemployment, because it does not support those who do not have the conditions to pursue their activity. The same does not happen to the social security system because it imposes a minimum level of social protection that we know does not exist in the case of lawyers and solicitors. It is about this path, which we are now re-launching, together with all the entities — and I am taking advantage of complimenting the delegation of the Advocates' Order — that we call for the feasibility of integrating these beneficiaries into Social Security or, alternatively, we do not reject any path, which build a regime that allows these professionals to respond socially similar to those given by the public system to their beneficiaries. We do not reject any of the ways in which the other parliamentary groups propose. We understand that, in order to follow this path, to take this decisive step, we first need to understand, in the background, the ground we tread, the conditions, the contexts, the impact and sustainability of the possible paths, in order to make the best and most substantiated decision. Those who today present a solution under the false cover of freedom of choice know well that they are harming those who say they defend, who are the beneficiaries. In fact, Mrs Carla Castro has well summed up what is at stake: freedom of choice, in this case, is deeply simplistic, because the Left Block and the NAP have not answered the essential question. So how is it that the beneficiaries, those who, according to your project, choose to stay at CPAS, will be entitled to a pension? With what contributions? [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] But with what contributions, Mr President, if those who are left will be a small group of beneficiaries? [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] The Socialist Party has a serious stance, unlike those that point to easy solutions for complex problems. Therefore, Mr President, the Socialist Party has led in our country the real social reforms that have sought to strengthen the protection and social rights of our workers. That is what we have done over the years and that is what, once again, with the contribution of the Socialist Party, we seek to do for lawyers, applicants and implementing agents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u263	We shall therefore conclude this item on the agenda and we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I request the services which open the quorum verification period and the Members. Members present to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if anyone could not register electronically and have to be noted for their presence by older means. [[Pause.]] Did everyone get to hear this question? [[Pause.]] I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we will proceed to the votes, starting with the Draft Vote No 326 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of Joaquim Pessoa. To read the draft vote, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Joaquim Pessoa, poet of April, writer, plastic artist and advertising, died last March 17, at 75 years of age, leaves an important artistic legacy that places it as a relevant personality of the Portuguese culture of our time. Born in Barreiro, in 1948, and created in Moita, council that instituted in his name a biannual prize of poetry, Joaquim Pessoa was an important singer of songs – having worked with some of the most prominent Portuguese composers and singers – from which Amélia dos Eyes Doces e Lisboa, Menina e Moça, created in partnership with José Carlos Ary dos Santos and Fernando Tordo. In 1975, Joaquim Pessoa, together with Fernando Tordo, Paulo de Carvalho, José Carlos Ary dos Santos, Luís Villas-Boas, among others, founded the cooperative of artists called « Toma Lá Disco», who, committed to the transformative spirit out of April 25, 1974, sought to edit intervention songs, of progressive charis, in support of the social aspirations of the working classes. His literary work was awarded in 1981 with the prize of the Portuguese Association of Writers and the Secretary of State of Culture, and also with the Nobel Prize of Literature and the Almada City Prize, with more than 30 original books published from 1975 to 2019, besides being included in numerous Portuguese poetry anthologies. Joaquim Pessoa was creative director and general director of various advertising agencies and author or co-author of various television programs, such as 1000 Images, Sésamo Street and 45 Years of Advertising in Portugal, among others. Joaquim Pessoa was also director of the Portuguese Society of Authors, between 1988 and 1994, literary director of Litexa Editora, director of the newspaper Poets & Trovadores, collaborator of the magazines Sylex and Vertice and the newspaper A Bola. He also edited records where he says poetry of his authorship. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Joaquim Pessoa and directs the most sympathy to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u265	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, I ask you to accompany me in a minute of silence in honor of Joaquim Pessoa. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u266	Mr President, I would like to take the floor, just to announce that I cannot register in the system. I was here in good time, but it wasn't possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u267	Mr President, I would like to speak for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u268	Mr President, I would also like to speak for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we haven't arrived at 1 p.m. yet. I understand that, on other occasions, when the work is being carried out, there is some difficulty in anticipating the time when the vote is taken and subsequent commitments are also made by the Members and by the Members. Members leaving the vote as soon as they register, but participation in the vote is not just a right of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it's everyone's duty. So we are now in the vote and we will continue with the same. We will vote for draft resolution No 623 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to South Africa. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u270	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u271	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u272	Mr President, it is only to indicate that the next draft resolution has a number of travels and that it is the motivation for the first of them that will direct our sense of vote. It was to give this information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u273	Let us then vote on draft resolution No 642 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to London, Yuste and Strasbourg. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the PAN and the L and the AE abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u274	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u275	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u276	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u277	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 630 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures and incentives for the production of energy for self-consumption from renewable sources and the creation of the ‘SOL FOR ALL’ programme under the National Reform Programme 2023. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] This project is down to 11. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution No 639 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By rejecting the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 640 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the inclusion of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the Green Budgeting Principles of the Climate Bases Act in the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 and other public policy guidance documents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CH were rejected in favour of the PAN, L and Member of the PS Maria Antóniade Almeida Santos and PS, PSD, IL, PCP and BE abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 641 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government provide for the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 and the National Reform Programme 2023 an interim update of the IRS steps that accommodate the inflation recorded in the years 2021 and 2022. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and with abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]] Let us now, in general, vote on the Resolution Project No 643 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of income from inflation and rejection of the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstained.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u278	Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor to make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u279	Mr President, yes, on this draft resolution we voted on and on draft resolution No 646 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u280	It's registered. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 644 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government establish in the Stability Programme objective and predictable criteria for the use of the budget strike in the event of a surplus in the form of a commitment to equity and investment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the CFP were rejected, votes against the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PSD, CH and BE.]] We turn to the vote, in general draft resolution No 646 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For a better life: increase in wages and pensions, control and price reduction, more investment and national production. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Resolution Project No. 649 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 a forecast of measures to be taken to restore the State's capacity to fulfil constitutional obligations in the social field and an economic growth strategy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 535 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic and gender violence. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 536 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the effective strengthening of specialized training and training of professionals involved in preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 537 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the field of prevention and combating violence in courtship. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 538 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of action plans incorporating the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030 and the Action Plan for the Prevention and Combating of Human Trafficking. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 539 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to prevent and combat domestic violence against older persons. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] The project goes down to 1. the Commission. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor. Is it to make a statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u281	No, Mr President, if I may, by mistake of reading myself, wish to correct a sense of vote which may have an influence on the final outcome of the vote, which appears on page 3 of the vote script, of draft resolution No 640 / XV / 1. a ( PAN). The left block vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u282	To be clear, we will repeat this vote if the parliamentary groups so allow. We will then vote, in general, on the Resolution Project No. 640 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the inclusion of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the Green Budgeting Principles of the Climate Bases Act in the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 and other public policy guidance documents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CH were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, L and Member of PS Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos and abstentions from PS, PSD, IL and PCP.]] The general vote on Bill No. 10 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures the appointment of employer on prevention scales for victims of domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from the PCP and L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 515 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the inclusion of condemnation of crimes of domestic violence, of offense to physical integrity, against sexual freedom and self-determination committed against the author of succession in the causes of successive indignity, for the purpose of amending the Civil Code and the Criminal Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and abstentions against the CFP and the BE.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 644 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( tenth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS and CH votes were rejected and the IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L votes were voted against.]] The general vote of Bill No. 645 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Assigns patronage to victims of domestic violence ( tenth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 678 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthen the protection of the elderly who are victims of crimes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 731 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures adequate legal support for all victims of domestic violence. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 474 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the urgent approval of national action plans and extended investment in the prevention and fight against violence in courtship. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CH and votes against the PSD, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mr Pedro Pinto has informed you that he will make a written statement on behalf of the bench. We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 550 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at children and young victims of domestic violence. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No 716 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Change the work arrangements by shift and night and strengthen the social protection of workers by shift and night. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 726 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amend the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works, strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 593 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government set up a committee to include the Preventive Box of Lawyers and Applicants ( CPAS) in the general social security regime by conducting an audit of their functioning and evaluating alternative models of social protection. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 642 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Withdrawal from the Institute for Financial Management of Social Security, I.P. the competence to establish and instruct proceedings for the execution of debts to the case of the Advocates and Applicants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 643 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Ensure access to the social security contribution scheme to lawyers, applicants and implementing agents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from CH, IL and PSD Members Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Sofia Matos.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 719 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Consecrates the right of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents linked to the subordinated employment contract and exclusively opting for the social security contribution scheme, closes certain deadlines to those of the general social security scheme and provides for the possibility of transferring the contributions made to CPAS which do not comply with the guarantee period. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, L and PSD Members Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Sofia Matos and abstentions from CH, IL and PCP.]] Has Mrs Emília Cerqueira asked for the floor to indicate a written declaration of vote on behalf of the bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u283	Exactly, Mr President, with regard to the previous initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u284	All right. The general vote of Bill No. 724 / XV / 1 is followed. a (PAN) — provides for the possibility of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents to opt between the social security contribution scheme or the CPAS and repeals the competence of social security in the establishment of procedures for the implementation of debts to the CPAS. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 728 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Ensures lawyers, applicants and implementing agents the possibility of choosing the contribution scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, BE and L.]] Has Mrs Paula Santos asked for the floor for a small vote, in writing, on behalf of the bench, on all these projects?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u285	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u286	All right, it's registered. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 505 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthening the means of combating domestic violence. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 583 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve the action plans that integrate the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030 and the V Action Plan for the Prevention and Combating of Human Trafficking 2022 - 2025 and disseminate their plans and activity reports. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u287	Mrs Susana Amador asks for the floor to announce a written declaration of vote on behalf of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u288	Yes, Mr President, on behalf of the bench, for all these initiatives that we have voted on under this programme of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u289	These two draft resolutions and those previously voted?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u290	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u291	All right. Here is a statement of systemic vote. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 364 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Bioresidues 2023, create conditions for structural change. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We proceed to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 445 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Promotes the transformation of organic waste into a green energy source. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, BE and L.]] Is there a written declaration of vote from the Free?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u292	No, Mr. President, it's my pardon, so I'm penitentiary. In the Resolution Project No 364 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), the vote of the Book should have been in favour and not abstention. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u293	Let's record the change. If you understand that I'm going too fast, just give me signs to calm down. [[Laughing.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 559 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — The dynamisation of the Vale Efficiency programme with a view to combating energy poverty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 590 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Ministry of the Environment fulfil its obligation to answer Parliament's questions and requests within the prescribed deadlines. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Members, I must say that, as this project is rejected, this does not exempt any ministry from responding in time to demands and questions. We voted in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries on draft Law No 331 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the legal regime for the prevention and control of exotic species applicable to recreational and sports fishing in inland waters. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 347 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of crimes of non-consensual dissemination of intimate content by amending the Criminal Code and Decree-Law No 7 / 2004 of 7 January 2004 approving Electronic Trade in the Internal Market and Personal Data Processing. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u294	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u295	Mr President, is it to announce that you will make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u296	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u297	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, will you also make a written statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u298	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u299	Mr. President, I'm sorry. It's for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u300	All right. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real will also make a statement of vote in writing. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No 156 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthens the protection of victims of firearms from private life by means of unconsensual sharing of sexual charities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CFP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 157 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents the crime of non-consensual disclosure of intimate or sexual content. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH, IL and the CFP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 208 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of unauthorized pornography (fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code and forty-fifth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against IL, BE and PAN and abstentions against CH, PCP and L.]] Mr. Pedro Pinto is asking for the floor. Is it to announce the delivery of a written declaration of vote on behalf of the bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u301	Yes, Mr. President, for the last two projects: Bill No. 157 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and Draft Law No 208 / XV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u302	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u303	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u304	Is it also to announce a declaration of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u305	Yes, Mr President, in relation to the overallity of projects with this same theme. So the two before and back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u306	All right. We continue with the general vote on Bill No. 97 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the appointment of employers to victims who are particularly vulnerable ( Amendment to the Victim Statute and Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July 2004 amending the access to law and courts regime ). Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Who votes against? [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Will the PCP correct your sense of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u307	Mr. President, we didn't even vote. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u308	I have the feeling that the longer it takes, the more it shakes the vote. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u309	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u310	Mrs. Susana Amador, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u311	Mr President, it is to inform that we will also include this initiative in our comprehensive declaration of vote in the context of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u312	All right. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is also asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u313	Mr President, it is to correct the meaning of the NAP's vote to the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries on draft Law No 331 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ). The vote on the NAP is against and not in favour. [[Ah!]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u314	The amendment is registered. The Bureau is jealous of not having enough information to understand the irony. We are moving forward to the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa - Juízo Local Criminal de Lisboa - Juiz 11, Case No 7233 / 20.1T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Inês de Sousa Real (PAN ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u316	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask the Secretary to read the following opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Arbitration Court of the Commercial Arbitration Centre of the Chamber of Commerce and Portuguese Industry / Trade Association of Lisbon, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Marta Temido ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u318	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] After the vote, we have a file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u319	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u320	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u321	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I wanted to point out that I was present during the voting period, but I could not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u322	Let us then read the file. I ask Secretary Maria of the Rosinha Light to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u323	Ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 650 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 651 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 652 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 653 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 654 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 655 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-28.u324	The next plenary session is next Wednesday and is part of the current debate required by the IL on « Business sector of the State », and the evaluation of government bills on military matters. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 16 minutes.]]
