ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public and Secretary Palmira Maciel please read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 953 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 954 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, as well as Resolution Projects Nos 943 and 944 / XV / 2. a ( L ), down to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u3	Our order of work begins with the joint appreciation of Resolution Projects Nos 805 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government to support the establishment of the European Deposit Guarantee System as a key part of a Banking Union capable of protecting small and medium-sized depositors and consolidating citizens'confidence in the European financial system and 938 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government implement a compensation mechanism for damage to BES and BANIF. To present the Resolution Project No 805 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), Mr Rui Lage has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2008 international crisis, which began with the collapse of Lehman Brothers in the United States ( United States of America ), has left bare the weaknesses of banking systems in several Member States. In response, the European Union began to build a Banking Union in 2012 to protect national banks from future crises and minimize the danger of contamination and loss to depositors and economies. A single supervisory mechanism and a single banking resolution mechanism have been set up, and, supported by these two pillars, the European banking sector is now more stable and cautious, as was shown during the pandemic and during the peak of the energy crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine. In March 2023, the bankruptcy of the Californian bank SVB ( Silicon Valley Bank ), the most significant since the overthrow of Lehman Brothers, caused a devaluation of banks all over the world and even ended up dictateing the rescue of Credit Suisse, causing chills in governments and citizens by bringing to memory the crisis of sovereign debts. A legislative package is currently under negotiation in the European Union to strengthen the common framework for managing banking crises and safeguarding national deposits, which will include entities such as schools, hospitals or universities. It is an important step, but it falls short of what is needed to protect people's savings. It is therefore essential to conclude the Banking Union with its third pillar, the European deposit guarantee system, with the corresponding guarantee fund. This is a gradual exchange of funds available to reimburse depositors up to €100,000 in case of settlement or settlement of a bank, thus breaking the link between the security of deposits, the geographical location of deposits and the financial health of each country. at a time when the bank is news of the profits it receives from inflation and the rise in interest rates, with the consequences we know in the lives of families, we believe it is an important political sign that a national Parliament supports a recommendation to the Government that it be beaten by the creation of the European deposit guarantee system, not only as a key piece of the Banking Union, but as its most human part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u5	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make it available on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating the proponents of this initiative, which recommends that the Government, together with the European institutions, defend the creation of the European deposit guarantee system. Mrs. Members, the PSD has always supported the Banking Union, which, as we know, is structured around three pillars: a single supervisory mechanism, a single resolution mechanism and a single deposit guarantee mechanism. The first two pillars are currently in operation, but the full implementation of the Banking Union still requires the implementation of the third pillar through the creation of a European deposit guarantee system, which ensures the same level of protection for deposits within the Union, on the basis of a common financing mechanism other than the national one, which will allow for the deepening of European integration and, very important, to ensure solidarity between the various Member States. in this area, the PSD also argues that it is necessary to continue efforts to harmonise the conditions of the European banking sector, in particular on issues relating to interest rates, loans and deposits, or commissions, two situations where there is a huge disparity at Member State level. This way, and so far, we may agree. However, Mr President, it is customary to say that «the great enemy of the good», and your initiative refers to, very lightly, that the European Commission adopted in April this year a proposal to adjust and strengthen the current European framework for managing banking crises and deposit insurance, with emphasis on medium-sized and small banks. The Commission's proposal is that many small and medium-sized banks in insolvency situations have been managed with solutions outside the framework of the resolution, which meant, as we know, the use of taxpayers' money instead of domestic bank resources or security systems financed by the sector. In the view of the European Commission, this proposal will allow the authorities to organise the orderly exit of the market to a bank — of any size and business model — in difficulties, with a wide range of instruments, which is indeed very relevant to Portugal, as we well know, in the face of history. So the first question is: what would you like to say about this proposal from the European Commission, which little refers to, in the face of the difficulty and resistance that has been expressed by the major European countries in the implementation of the third pillar? On the other hand, we are afraid that the PS will present such a pink picture as to the reasons — I no longer say responsibility — for the crisis. It says that it was the international crisis that, and I quote, « challenged the ability to bear sovereign debt charges and entailed financial assistance processes with high social costs due to the imposition of austerity policies as a precondition for monetary aid ». It's extraordinary! Mrs. Members, the sovereign debt crisis was not the product of the 2008 financial crisis. This precipitated, indeed, the sovereign debt crisis, determined by idiosyncratic factors, and this crisis, moreover, was confined to Ireland, Greece, Portugal and Spain. And, in the Portuguese case, these factors are, in fact, very well identified. Thus, it would have been much better if they had said: « In some countries, like Portugal, the financial crisis has been combined with their own weaknesses, with emphasis on the continued increase in indebtedness, in a framework of mediocre economic growth, creating doubts about the capacity of debt service and precipitating the consequent closure of capital markets, starting with banks and ending in states. This, yes, would correspond to historical truth. They are, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, with humility, available to restore the truth? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u7	To reply, Mr Rui Lage has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Alexandre Simões, I was expecting nothing from an exercise of revisionism in relation to the consequences of a crisis that was colossal, which sent shock waves a little around the world...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u10	... and that, yes, affected mainly countries where banks had more unstable and fragile situations, for reasons that are structural, but that were not strict from Portugal. They were cross-cutting structural issues and problems to a number of southern economies, for reasons I will not be here to explain now, because I don't even have time for that. Now, one thing is certain: if you read carefully the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, you will have seen here precisely the reform of the banking crisis management framework and the guarantee of deposits currently under way at European Union level, which, as you well said, will serve, from now on, so that small and medium-sized banks can also access the resolution, and not only systemic banks, and offers more interesting guarantees in relation to deposit guarantee. But you must not forget that, despite this, all the major European institutions and European leaders, including those coming from their European political family, the PPE (European People's Party ), agree that this is not enough and that it is necessary to finalise the Banking Union with a European deposit guarantee system, which represents enormous advantages, because it will from now on shield the deposits and savings of citizens in a far more robust way, because it is ultimately equivalent to a communitarisation of risk. And, frankly, I do not know any more of any region in the world where there are countries that are willing to share the risk and reimbursements of European deposits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Carneiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u11	To present the Resolution Project No 938 / XV / 2. a ( CH ), Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings up a proposal on the financial system, with which it seems to want to take a step in the right direction for the protection of depositors and to have more confidence in a system that has failed the Portuguese. But with the PS there is always a « but ». It is still curious that this proposal comes from the party that has never protected the injured, nor from BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), nor from BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), nor from Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ). [[Protests of PS Members.]] These people never had protection, they never had anyone to help them. The PS never had a word or willingness to help those who lost everything, who lost their savings in a lifetime. Where was the PS until today? Oh, my God! The party that most despised the injured from the bank is now doing the theater, as if I were very concerned about this issue. The concern is so much that the government is not here! What has been done over the years? Imagine! A working group was set up. After promises and promises of Antonio Costa, of demonstrations and protests of the injured, the solution was: a working group. More than working groups, it is our duty, as representatives of the Portuguese people, to be next to whoever was injured by the bank. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is time to say frontally that these people were stolen, mocked and forgotten by the State. That is why, once again, the arrival comes here with a proposal that goes against the real difficulties of those who have lost nothing. This draft resolution is extremely important for thousands of Portuguese citizens who have been injured by the failures of BES and BANIF, citizens who have entrusted their savings to these institutions, the savings of a lifetime, the savings to help their children and grandchildren, the savings to have a dignified life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u14	These citizens, from one moment to another, without their investments, faced financial and emotional difficulties in despair, without knowing what to do with their lives. In history, there are reports of depression, of people without knowing what to do and until they reach the end of suicide. The government has failed these people, many of them emigrants, who there have deposited the savings of a lifetime; in the case of the Banif injured, the vast majority are Madeirans and Azorians, who have lost much of their money. How is it possible to spend years and years and more, and there is no solution for these people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u16	Our draft resolution is not just a legislative proposal; it is a question of justice and a call for responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Our draft resolution is a recognition that the State has a duty to protect its citizens, especially when they are victims of systematic failures in the financial sector. How to explain to people that no banker is arrested, that Ricardo Salgado continues to travel, on vacation, through Sardinia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u18	...while these men and women were left with nothing? How can we explain this? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] To recommend to the Government the implementation of a compensation mechanism for the damage caused by BES and BANIF is to recognize that these citizens have been victims of a system that has failed to protect them. They believed in a system that should protect them and they lost everything. They were deceived in such a way that their lives were never the same again. They want only one thing: to recover what is from them by right! This draft resolution is to give voice to those who have often felt helpless and hopeless. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this draft resolution is an opportunity to show that this Assembly of the Republic is next to the citizens, recognizes the mistakes of the past and is willing to take concrete steps to correct them. We spent millions saving banks, but we forgot these men and women who lost everything, the savings of a lifetime, as I said back then. We spend millions on observatories, commissions and foundations that only serve to house the socialist lobby.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u21	Justice continues to fail to operate in Portugal and millions of euros remain in cases accumulated in the courts. We have money for everything, full safes, as the Minister of Finance likes Fernando Medina, but we have no money to do justice to those who are injured in the bank. It's time to act! It's been years and years to be forgotten and deceived! These Portuguese citizens are fighting for what they are. It is time to show that this House's commitment is for people and for the protection of citizens. While some always choose the side of the bankers, the arrival will always choose the side of whoever needs it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u22	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Forgive-CL - one will look at this debate and these two draft resolutions and think that what unites them is the defense of the interests of customers and bank depositors who will have been injured. But what we see here is an opportunity to speak of a principle that is very dear to the Liberal Initiative: the principle that, in the private sphere, damage should be private and profits should be private. This means that people — in this case, depositors, savers, shareholders, investors in the bank — must take their informed decisions, assess the risks and then have the good or bad consequences of that decision. However, this principle has exceptions, in particular when there are supervisory failures, there are frauds that the investor or depositor does not have any reasonable chance of expecting, knowing or guessing, seeing their interests damaged by this supervisory failure — in this case, lack of supervision by the State. Now, in the present case, the two draft resolutions that we have discussed go directly to this issue. The draft resolution of the PS, which has already been presented here, seeks to establish the third pillar of the Banking Union. There is already a single supervisory mechanism, there is already a single banking resolution mechanism, the European deposit guarantee system is missing, and we are actually going to follow your proposal, which seems to be the most basic justice. We only hope — and I think that the Socialist Party's board will have at least this independence — that the PS government will not be at the same time to make this transposition, or to succeed in this struggle, which has taken time in the adoption and implementation of the Banking Activity Code, whose public consultation has already ended in January 2021 and we still do not know when it will see the light of the day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u25	This Code, I recall, was important not only for the harmonisation of all banking legislation, which is dispersed, but also for the strengthening of a series of mechanisms, including those that would have avoided some problems we had in the past, such as the evaluation of fit and next, which is still not in condition in Portugal. in the same way, the draft resolution of the Arrival speaks of a subject for which it continues to be important to draw attention. There were obvious oversight failures. The government itself has already acknowledged it in 2016 because it has established a mechanism for reimbursement of part of what the injured had lost. But it was only one part, it was not the same for all and it was a very complex system, whose information did not reach all. Moreover, we now know that there are even Portuguese investors outside Portugal, who are outside Portugal, who, especially in the case of BANIF, but also in the case of BES, arrived late in those negotiations. It is now a working group, whose meetings take place at the speed of caracol and there is no resolution in sight. This issue must be taken seriously, especially in a year when we know that there will be EUR 560 million of dividends in the General Deposit Box and for the year, the State Budget is forecast to be more than EUR 400 million. It is certainly not because of the lack of income from the bank that this matter is not resolved. Therefore, we in the Liberal Initiative believe in this principle of private profits, private losses. And more: we believe that the markets, which are expensive to us, only work if the actions, if the informed decisions, of course, have consequences, and this is true for shareholders, managers, savers, depositors, supervision and governments. Only thus, with responsibility, informed decisions and consequences for all, will we have a more responsible and mature country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u26	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let's go ahead with the narratives on the crisis. The PSD also presented its own and the PS also presented one, which does not point the finger to the financing of inequalities or to the brutal indebtedness of families and workers to deal with the concentration of wealth, with the increase of inequalities and with the way this concentration of wealth and increasing indebtedness led to a speculative bubble. So there was not the failure of Lehman Brothers — it would have been like a natural catastrophe that is not well known from where it came from and that suddenly fell on top of all of us — there was a casino game that was preparing to explode in this way, there was a Goldman Sachs and there was a game with swaps, in fact, of which Portugal well knew the price and the taste. The Banking Union has been presented as an act of solidarity to save us from this wild and predatory system, but in fact, what the Banking Union has done was to take power over States over systemic banks without mutualization and fund guarantee of joint deposits. We completely lost intervention power in an important sector and handed over that power to decide on the Portuguese bank to Germany. However, Germany, which accepted that power, did not accept to share the potential losses that that control and regulation power would give it in case of failure. Therefore, Germany has not accepted mutual guarantees of deposits without political guarantees, and this is indeed a very good portrait of European construction. The Banking Union is unequal because it withdraws supervisory and regulatory powers and also threatens our financial system. The Banking Union threatened Portugal and said it would liquidate BANIF, if BANIF was not broken down, and settle the New Bank, if the New Bank was not handed over to Lone Star. So for those who are in this mechanism, even the New Bank — and we know the importance of the New Bank — is a liquidable bank, with the consequences that this has for the Portuguese economy. Even the New Bank is a regional bank, because there are interests of concentration of the financial system that are behind and not only the security interests of taxpayers vis-à-vis the financial system. The countries such as Portugal have lost the possibility of having a banking system, on behalf of this European concentration of the banking system, and that should lead us to another discussion, which is about our economic sovereignty. But for now, what is at stake here is not that; what is at stake here is the fact that we are running after a counterparty that has never existed, especially when we signed the Banking Union, and the fact that we have signed not a system of solidarity, but a system of political protection over the Portuguese banking system and financial system. That is what the Left Block does not accept: these political protections about countries that believe they are less able to govern themselves and establish their own rules. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u28	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate tends to be more an acrylic discussion of a recommendation from the PS Parliamentary Group to the PS Government, so that Portugal defends, together with the European institutions, the deepening of the European Union and the so-called confidence of citizens in the European financial system. If the safeguard of deposits and the trust of depositors is essential, then it is essential to discuss and analyse what is the Banking Union and its effects on the deepening of Portugal's submission to the dictates of the European Union and the euro in the national bank, the economy and even national sovereignty. I wonder if it is possible to hold this debate and applaud the European Union and the European Central Bank ( ECB ), the supreme agents of the Banking Union, when, once again and as always, decisions are taken that are deeply negative to the country and that are leading millions of families and small businesses to despair. I wonder if this is how citizens will have confidence in the system. I also ask whether it is possible to speak of the single banking resolution mechanism, the pillar of the Banking Union, and to forget the sum of public money that was the resolution of BES and BANIF and its delivery is known to whom, after the money of the Portuguese people has cleared their balance sheet. I continue to ask whether it is possible to speak of the Banking Union and ignore its central objective, which is not the trust of depositors, but rather the process of banking concentration at the European Union level, which is already under way and which weakens the Portuguese financial system, making the country more dependent on the decisions of Madrid and Frankfurt. Mrs. Members, we are going to the tenth increase in the interest rates decided by the ECB and the PS Government and its parliamentary group insist on protecting the bank's astronomical profits, while sending to the institutions of the European Union missile disagreement. What guidelines have been given to Banco de Portugal? What initiative has the PS Parliamentary Group taken on this? By the way, what have the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival? All together...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u30	They're not all together!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u31	... they have rejected the proposals of the CFP, for their commitment to the great capital, and it is always the great capital that overlaps with that confidence. [[Protests by members of the CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u32	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u33	It is confirmed that the bank or is public, or is not private... [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u34	Or it's not private, that's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u35	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u36	And they want to do this debate, ignoring the scandalous profits obtained at the expense of all of us. It will be possible, sirs. Members, do credit institutions to operate in Portugal continue to charge fees and commissions at an unstoppable rate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u37	O John, where is the PCP project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u38	Is that how the system acquires confidence?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u39	This isn't Cuba!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u40	And the role of the General Deposit Box, which has been acted as a private bank by the dictates of the European Union and the Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u41	The dictates of the European Union? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u42	Let us remember the blackmail and embarrassment that the European Union created to the Portuguese State when it wanted to capitalize on the public bank. Let us remember that the banking supervisory power of the Banco de Portugal has been transferred to the European Central Bank, through the single supervisory mechanism. Is that how a sovereign country can really be?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u43	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u44	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u45	This immediately requires that the euro and the European Union should refuse and break up, not in depth. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u46	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS is now proposing to us a strengthening of the confidence of citizens in the Banking Union and a greater protection of deposits, but the decisive part ends up being almost a sort of speech by Miss Universe. This is a letter of good intentions that does not displease anyone but does not change the lives of families. We must not forget that we have presented an initiative to defend the deposits of families, because that is a great concern we have. It was, in fact, to defend the deposits of the families that the NAP proposed and it was able to approve that the banks were forbidden to charge the families... [[Pause.]] I see that the subject is exciting enough to arrive, but if I can continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u48	We're talking to each other, it's not with you! If we can't talk, I'll talk to you next!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u49	You can talk, but you have so much time! With the only minute the NAP has, there should be time for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u50	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Only the one or the one to whom the word is given for whom you are presiding over the work may use the word in plenary session. So right now, it is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real who is in the use of the word, she and no one else. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u51	That's a bad wave!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was precisely because we had done a job in order to be able to approve that banks were prohibited from charging the abusive banking commissions families with a savings of more than EUR 119 million per year. But we need to go further and we cannot wait for Brussels, for example, to be able to establish that banks that have public support, for example, are prevented from paying bonuses to their administrators. in this case, the PS chose to align with the PSD, with the Liberal Initiative and with the Arrival, a situation that, in the view of the NAP, is absolutely immoral. It was also to defend families that it was proposed that the mortgage of the household should not be executed and, once again, we saw the PS joining the same political forces and not safeguarding families. To defend people, indeed, it is not enough to go to the warehouses. Therefore, what the NAP asks the PS is whether they are in fact available to ensure that in the future we can help families with such measures, without forgetting companies, which, in the renegotiation, have been left out of the package of banking support measures, and it is essential that companies are not forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u53	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u54	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Dear Citizens in the galleries: When a bank customer, in the United States of America, enters his bank agency, he has a badge behind the counter that says his deposit is secured up to $100,000, by the FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), which is the federal agency that makes this retail deposit insurance, from the small depositors. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] This gives customers security in that country, as in other countries where the same scheme exists — in Brazil and elsewhere — that in that banking jurisdiction, the deposits of small savers are secure. This does not exist in the European Union. The European Union has constituted a euro area, has a central bank, wanted to set up a Banking Union, but there is nowhere to be this confidence-building for depositors that there is something tangible behind their deposit, also at European level, and that preserves them. That is why this proposal which the PS brings here is a good proposal, which goes towards completing the Banking Union, which should have been done for a long time now. If any criticism of this proposal is to be made, it is not to go far enough, not to propose other elements which protect the Banking Union from a failure of the transnational bank, which is increasingly complex and agglomerated and which may already have serious systemic problems in the near future. But at least what is here is something we can follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u55	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Simões once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: BES ended in August 2014 and BANIF at the end of 2015, leaving thousands of customers who invested and trusted these banking entities injured. Despite meetings, working groups and promises made by the Government, particularly by the Prime Minister, the truth is that so far little or nothing has happened. In the meantime, expectations have been created and, at present, many are still deprived of access to their savings. Many citizens on the continent, Madeira, the Azores and thousands of migrants are eager for concrete answers, difficulties and waiting for an answer. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In the case of BANIF, there are already eight years - the duration of this government - and we hope that it will finally be this year that there is a just solution, that will curate the interests of the injured and allow access to the funds allocated to them by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u57	Push your belly forward! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u58	Paraphrasing Edmund Burke, who doesn't know History is doomed to repeat it. And, in fact, Portugal, following the international crisis, but also bad practices of banking governance and failures in national supervision, witnessed a collapse of several banks, undermining credibility in the banking system and leaving thousands of customers who, in good faith, invested or trusted their savings in these financial institutions. For all this, especially after hearing the interventions by the Bloc and the CFP, it is important to strengthen that the integration and proper functioning of the financial system is essential to ensure the effectiveness and stability of the whole economy and the trust of our businesses and the savers. The conclusion of the Banking Union is indeed fundamental to achieving this objective. In view of the fundamental role of the financial system and the market failures which characterize it, it is important to regulate it and supervise it properly. This is an objective of the PSD, protect small and medium-sized depositors and give citizens and investors confidence in the financial system. It is a right that assists companies and that assists all Portuguese people who, day by day, give their work for the country and who can and will continue to count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u59	Yeah, yeah, it's the best!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u60	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this draft resolution on the damage to BES and BANIF, on such an important subject that has marked so many Portuguese families in the continent, in the autonomous regions and in our communities, it is difficult to hear, on the one hand, the cheap demagogy of the Arrival and, on the other hand, the demagogy of the PSD. [[PSD and CH protests.]] It is that if there was a government that did not literally do anything about the damage done by BES and BANIF, it was the last government of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] If there was a government that did nothing, it was the PSD government and the CDS. On the other hand, the blatant lie of the Arrival, when it says that the PS government has done nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u62	He did a working party!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u63	So, the more than 1800 injured by the BES trade role which was compensated in 280 million euros, the last of which was made in 2020, is what? It's nothing? Are you going to tell those BES injuries that it's nothing? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u64	What is the global value? How many million?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u65	After that, it's always interesting that this proposal is being dragged, when... [[CH protests.]] ... precisely the legal representatives of the injured have already submitted the report to the working group on BANIFE, still this week, they will deliver their report on BES.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u66	It's November! He's missing the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u67	There will be a technical meeting with all members of the working group, including the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM (Mobiliary Market Committee) at the beginning of November...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u68	Ah, then it's now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u69	... and perhaps, in November itself, the working group will deliver its final report to the Government for the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u70	10 years from now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u71	Therefore, I regret to say, the proposal of the Arrival is a vacuum, it presents no solution and, of course, it will not do any good for the injured, both BES and BANIF. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u72	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u73	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. I'm sorry, Mr. Hugo Carneiro is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u74	Mr. President, to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u75	To defend the honor of the bench? You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been said here that the PSD has done nothing for the damage done by BES. If there had been no bank resolution in 2014 the depositors of Banco Espírito Santo had lost all their money.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u77	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u78	So there is a lot to be undone if you are to come here and say something like that. [[PSD applause.]] [[Mr Miguel Iglesias's laughs.]] I also want to say that the damage caused by BES has complained of the opacity with which the process of reimbursement of many of its savings was made, of the opacity of the process carried out by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u79	Go, Miguel, get up and answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u80	To give satisfaction, Mr Miguel Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u81	Mr President, unfortunately I have to remind the PSD that it had to be the PS government to resolve the situation of the damage to the commercial role of BES and will be the PS to resolve the situation of the unqualified damage to BES and BANIF. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u82	Solve what? They didn't solve anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u83	I would like to remind the honourable Member — perhaps many Members in this House will not remember or will not know — the true coalition of leaders of his party, in Madeira, who organized real excursions to our communities in Venezuela and South Africa, with representatives of BES and BANIF, to mislead, unfortunately, our emigrants. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u84	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u85	This, unfortunately, is quite documented in the ongoing judicial proceedings. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u86	Get down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u87	Great level!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u88	In order to speak, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u89	Mr President, even at the end of this debate it is important to mention two things. Mr. João Dias, the PCP talks a lot about the bank, that the bank is next to the bank, that the IL is next to the bank, but what has the PCP done about it? Nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u90	Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u91	Mr President, how many proposals have you put forward today? How many drags have you made for today's debate? Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u92	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u93	That's what you guys do! You talk, you talk, you talk, you talk, you do, but we've made a debate here about this house, about the bank, and where was the PCP? The PCP was silent!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u94	We pay her!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u95	Mr. Deputies, you have been silent. This is the truth! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u96	Since we paid, it's ours, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u97	Mr President, what have you already done and what has the CFP already done by the damage done by BANIF and BES? Nothing. This is the great reality! O Mr. Miguel Iglesias, what an undo! [[PS laughter.]] The working group had to submit a report until September 15th—it's the news—it hasn't presented it yet, and now it says it's this week, and after all, it's not this week, it's only for November,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u98	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u99	... and after November will be December, and then Christmas and New Year and Easter, and it will be not known when!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u100	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u101	You have done nothing for the damage done by BES and BANIF. There have been people who have already died, who have died in misery because of both the PSD government and the Socialist Party government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You are accomplices of what happened with BANIF and BES.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u102	Sir, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u103	I shall finish, Mr. President of a few benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u104	So, please finish it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u105	They're going to meet with BES to ask for money!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u106	Look, by now, it would be good for the New Bank, with so many millions of profits, to return the money that is from people, to return the money that taxpayers put in the New Bank. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u107	And the BES is putting money in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u108	What would be nice was the Socialist Party to be talking about this ; but not, as far as that is concerned, not a word. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u109	Private stuff, that's what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u110	The Block is funded by Hamas! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u111	Intelligence is so little that it only gets there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u112	Sir, your time is up. To close the debate, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Lage has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that I did not understand the position of the Left Block and, now, of the Greens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u114	The PAN. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u115	... of the NAP, I apologize for the European guarantee of deposits. And why? I am a bit puzzled by the fact that the Members elected by the Left Block in the European Parliament have had a rather constructive position to defend the European guarantee of deposits and have signed up to a letter — sent by the chairman of the European Parliament's Economic Committee to the European Commission — not to let the European system of deposit guarantee fall, which was, in fact, endorsed by the generality of political groups in the European Parliament. Now, a fellow on the road, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, with whom I believe you have created a political movement a few years ago, has precisely in your programme last year, not only the completion of the Banking Union with the European guarantee of deposits, such as the strengthening of supervision at European level of the banking system and of the Banking Union. It's strange and I get a little out of knowing exactly what the Block position is. As for the dogmatic exercise that brought us here the PCP, I must say one thing: we live in an economy...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u116	Well? Oh, my God! We pay her!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u117	... increasingly interdependent and in an increasingly independent world banking system. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] The fluidity and porosity of financial capitalism is a reality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u118	It's complete sovereignty!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u119	...more than that costs us, and it's the reality we have to deal with. Therefore, your idea that by removing the Banking Union if the problems are solved is a fallacy. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] On the contrary, the Banking Union remained solid and was not affected by the bankruptcy of the Californian bank SVB. Another bank that had serious problems was Credit Suisse. The Banking Union has kept the European banking system stable despite some problems and some losses, and this is of course an advantage to Europe and Portugal. If you think removing the Banking Union solves any problems, look, nothing solves. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Do you know what's going on? Removing the Banking Union means opening the way to more deregulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u120	What's this conversation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u121	Is that a BANIF?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u122	I can't believe the PCP is in favor of further deregulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u123	And what regulation is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u124	It opens the way for deregulation, because it eliminates rules and laws that all European banks have to follow, and opens the way and creates increased risk of contamination between the banking systems of the various countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u125	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u126	And I just end by saying this: I hope you will not stand in this opposition to the European deposit guarantee,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u127	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u128	... that you do not want to be on the side of an old acquaintance, who is Mr Schäuble, who, if you remember well, was the main one, the most tenant opposition to the creation of the European deposit guarantee and the completion of the Banking Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u129	He's a friend of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u130	We now turn to point 2 of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 907 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — weekly ISP update, in order to reflect changes in VAT revenue due to changes in fuel prices, along with the Resolution Project No 892/XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the immediate and regular application of the ISP review and fixation mechanism in order to reflect changes in VAT revenue due to the weekly change in the price of fuels and generally with Law Projects Nos 944 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — eliminates the so-called "additional to ISP" and dual taxation of fuels ( VAT on ISP ) and 945 / XV / 2. a (CH) — Reduces the VAT rate to 13 % and repeals the additional ISP rate on fuels. To present the two drafts, the draft law and the draft resolution, of the PSD, has the floor Mr. Hugo Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese have been severely penalized by taxes on fuels due to the government. The executive's attitude is not now and goes back well to 2016, when he decided to increase the ISP (charge on oil and energy products ), bringing more than 600 million euros into revenue. As of 2017, the Government has also promoted a further worsening of the ISP on gas oil. Since early on, the Socialist Party's government has tested the tax bias on fuels. This path was denounced by the PSD and, in 2018, with the increase in the price of fuels, we proposed the resumption of the quarterly revisions of the ISP, in order to ensure fiscal neutrality. How did the PS vote at the time? It voted against, and despite the adoption of the resolution, the PS never complied with it. We had to reach 2019 so that the government would accept to revise the ISP below on gasoline, but without moving into gas. Upon arrival at 2021, due to the rise in the price of oil, the fuels again fired at values of more than 20 cents per litre, either in gasoline or in gasoline. In the face of the call in Parliament for the government to reduce taxes by 2021, the government said no. But the situation was so serious that in October 2021, they led to a reduction in the ISP to compensate for the additional VAT revenue (value added tax ), and this action led to reductions of 1 or 2 cents per litre, which were rapidly absorbed with the increase in prices. Because the measure was insufficient and did not convince, they presented the "AUTovoucher" and the freezing of the carbon rate update. On the way, they forgot to update the port which guarantees the compensation in the ISP of the value collected from VAT, as prices continued to rise. This rise, exacerbated in 2022 with the war in Ukraine, led to recognition of the need to compensate for VAT revenue in the ISP. The Government has even announced by Mr Prime Minister that there would be a weekly review of the ISP to neutralise the additional VAT revenue, which happened in March 2022. At that time, the PSD proposed to Parliament the refund to Portuguese in discounts in the ISP of the value of the State's enrichment in 2021, an amount of EUR 170 million more in VAT than the Government did not expect to collect. [[PSD applause.]] What did the PS do? He voted against. As was also rejected the PSD measure included in its Social Emergency Programme in 2022, which provided for the temporary reduction of the VAT rate on fuels. But it was necessary to arrive in May 2023 to see that the government has ceased to compensate the ISP for the increase in VAT revenue due to the increase in prices. I repeat — since May 2023. The government has come to count on the anesthesia of Portuguese people, who need their car to go to work or take their children to school. at the same time, it partially defrosted the additional carbon rate. The result is good to see: higher prices, rising taxes, poorer Portuguese and desperate. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, according to ERISE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ), the State is 51, 8 % of petrol taxes and 44, 1 % in gas oil, i.e. about half of what people pay for the State. It is true to say that with the PS the party is every day, and who pays is the Portuguese, the middle class and who works. But for the PS party, the Portuguese have to walk and hang. In short, this is the case in the ISP, and it will be even more so in so many taxes in 2024, such as the IUC ( single traffic tax ) for vehicles prior to 2007, VAT, seal tax, IABA ( alcohol and alcoholic beverages tax ), among others. They will only be in indirect taxes plus EUR 1600 million in 2024. Give with one hand and shake with the other. [[PSD applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is presenting today a set of initiatives aimed at forcing the Government to impact on the ISP the increase in VAT, on a weekly and automatic basis, and to send this regular information to the Assembly of the Republic. History tells us that we cannot trust the government and that is why we have to put these measures into law. It is interesting to note that Mr Finance Minister — who at first said that he was monitoring the situation — following the presentation of the PSD measures only five days later, between 20 and 25 September, came quickly to the ground saying that he was going to move in the door leading to fiscal neutralisation. If it wasn't the PSD, the Portuguese were still paying for a higher ISP. But Mr Minister — if you hear us — it is not to move once and forget about months, as you have done since May. It is that from May to September, the Portuguese left thousands of euros in the state safes because of VAT. In 2021, it was at least EUR 170 million. And now, how much did it go? In view of everything I have said, we conclude that this is a highly polluting government, which pollutes the lives of Portuguese people, sacrificing them with more taxes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u132	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To express it, you have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Barroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u133	Mr. President, Mr. Caros and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three words of order for younger generations to charge the government today in office: stability, transparency and sustainability. The oil market is certainly one of the most volatile and unstable markets in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u134	In Madeira and the Azores, and not so!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u135	What does PSD do with this information? Take it and bring the debate. For what? To insist on increasing the instability associated with this market,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... presenting a model that, from week to week and without apparent condition of emergency need, jump between values. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the wars and geopolitical crises that we are living in today are not about to play the swings. We live in troubled times all over the world, and Europe is the focus of these dramas. Of course, the value of the oil barrel will oscillate, of course, it will possibly rise and fall, but the scenario cannot be added even more instability at this point. [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] We should have learned that at the beginning of the war in Ukraine, because it was very visible. Yes, Mr President, the problem is here: fuel prices fluctuate in gas stations because the price of the oil barrel fluctuates, not because the state is going to pull it out and impose it one day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u136	I bought it months and months before!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u137	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us extend this discussion and talk about tax taxation in the macro scenario.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u138	In Madeira and the Azores, and not so!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u139	The country needs predictability to be able to make serious and structural investments. It is not certain to take out today and to put tomorrow that we can make accounts and make these same investments, capable of giving serious answers to families, because the difficulties of families, yes, are a matter of concern to the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, it is factual that the taxation of fuels in Portugal is below the weighted area of the euro. We're talking about 5% in gas oil and 6% in gasoline. Having said that, I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether this proposal is based on any ceilings or minimum limits of oscillations. I would also like to ask whether, in this scenario, the possibility that the value of the oil barrel falls abruptly and that — according to your logic, directly proportional or, in this case, inversely proportional — will be reflected in an increase in the ISP. I would really like to be explained how this is a concrete, transparent and positive measure, with real impact on Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u140	To reply, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this chart responds well... The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u142	Is that in the Azores or Madeira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u143	I would ask the services which respond to zero the response time count, and I would ask the House — in particular the parliamentary group which addressed the request for clarification, to be supposed to be clarified — to allow the honourable Member to respond. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this chart — or this image — of ERSE allows you to answer your question. The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. The instability that the honourable Member said exists, she really exists...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u145	I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u146	...in the Portuguese pockets, every day. [[PSD applause.]] Do you know why, Your Honor? It is because about 50 % of the taxes on fuels are going back to the State. So of what people pay, about 50 % — half! — return to the State. The Socialist Party's Government has promised that it will return the increase in VAT if there is an increase in the price of fuels, but it has not always done so, since May it does not. [[PSD applause.]] This is not instability, nor does it have to do with international markets; it is the breach of the promise they have made. It is with the anesthesia of the Portuguese that you count to continue to collect this recipe. With the PSD, they don't count on it. We will be here to denounce and present measures to counter this kind of policy that harms all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Hugo Carneiro. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We continue in the debate on the second item of our agenda. Now, to present Bill No. 944 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ), Mrs Paula Santos has the floor. I would ask the plenary to be silenced and to contain it properly so that the honourable Member can make her speech. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP once again presents its proposal for the elimination of a fiscal injustice which has long penalized the Portuguese people. The PCP has long argued that this injustice will be brought to an end. It is not acceptable for VAT to affect the price of the fuel where the value of the ISP is already recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u149	Sure! ISP also pays VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u150	It is not acceptable, nor does it make any sense, that there is a « tax-tax-tax» in Portugal. The Government thus recognises that there is a problem that has been forced to adopt an exceptional measure to mitigate it. But why does the government insist on not solving it? The CFP proposes the establishment of a mechanism that automatically returns to consumers the value corresponding to the VAT part affecting the ISP itself. It is a fair proposal with a very significant impact on the price paid per litre of fuel. The example of double taxation of the oil products tax being discussed today is one of the double taxation situations that occurs in VAT. Like others, who have long been duly identified, must lead the Assembly of the Republic, but also the Government, to revisit the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, as the CFP has long been warning and defending. In addition to this measure, the CFP proposes the end of the so-called ‘additional to the ISP’, which was created with the justification of the need for maintaining tax revenue at a time when the price of fuels was considerably below today’s prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u151	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal presented here by the CFP is a fair contribution to lowering the price of fuels, but does not contain the CFP for selective concealment or demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u153	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u154	As the reality has shown, tax measures are not enough to solve a problem of high energy prices. Tax discussion is neither the alpha nor the omega of the problem. Other measures are needed, which the CFP does not tire of presenting and defending, in particular, the control and fixing of the prices of petrol and gas, thus hindering the liberalisation of the sector operated in 2004. The results of this direction are in view of everyone: extremely high prices for the people and astronomical profits for the oil multinationals. Although it has been seen that oil has been used indiscriminately and is making timid use of the government's measures in relation to the timely reduction of the ISP. If on the tax issue the PSD and its successors — the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival — shout against the Government, why does not such a cry be heard when it comes to controlling the margins of refining and marketing of large oil companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u155	In Cuba there is control!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u156	Why is there no such provision to speak of the speculative mechanism for the formation of the price of fuels?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u157	It's in Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u158	This is a central issue in the discussion we are making, because, in the fuel price formation mechanism, there are a set of components that are speculative and whose removal we have been systematically proposing, so that it effectively contributes — and this is, yes, a central issue, as we have already mentioned — to reduce the value of fuels in our country. Why do they refuse to assume that the country is affected by the application of the artificial Platts indices, which define the international quote? Why do they not say that the so-called freight component, which competes for price formation, corresponds to a fictitious cost of transporting the petroleum product from Rotterdam to Lisbon? Why do they ignore the analyses of ENSE (National Energy Sector Entity), which states that it is the gross margin of companies that explains the increase in prices?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u159	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u160	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Members, it is because what they are really betting on — and that they always have the complicit hand of the PS — is to contribute to the accumulation of profits while small businesses and workers pay the highest energy bills in Europe, including at the expense of the State budget. To break this path, workers, the people and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u161	To submit Bill No. 945 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Reduce the VAT rate to 13 % and revoke the additional ISP rate on fuels, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government can tell the stories to understand and make the rounds it wants, which, at the end of the day, the great truth is that the tax burden will continue to grow, as it has always grown in all years of socialist governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u163	That's the one! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u164	I recall that when the PS started its governance in 2016, the tax burden was 34, 1 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u165	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u166	In 2023, the tax burden will rise to 37, 2 % of GDP and the State budget for 2024 provides for the tax burden to reach 38 % of GDP, the highest value in the history of Portuguese democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u168	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while we have a government that gives us both hands to a reduction in IRS (tax on income of natural persons) which represents a shy revenue breakdown of 0, 4 %, which translates into less than 76 million euros, that same government is preparing the third hand to again go to the taxpayers' pocket...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u169	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u170	... and withdraw more EUR 2800 million in taxes with the total tax revenue expected to exceed EUR 60 billion. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Only VAT revenue will increase by more than 8 %, or almost EUR 1800 million, and the ISP revenue will be increased by more than 13 %, or almost EUR 400 million, which essentially result from the gradual thawing of the carbon rate update, beginning in May 2023, with impact on the same period offset by the return of the additional VAT revenue in a neutral logic. However, this same refund of additional VAT revenue results from a transitional measure, but what is not transitional, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is the continuing impoverishment of the Portuguese middle class. The Minister of Finance considers that the increases in ISP and IUC for cars prior to 2007 are a strong incentive for the renewal of the car fleet, as if, for the common Portuguese debate with the brutal increase in credit benefits to housing and with an almost unbearable cost of living, exchange an old car, gas oil or gasoline, for a new electric car, if it were a mere fiscal management exercise. This utopian vision can be addressed in two ways: either Fernando Medina is living in a parallel reality, away from the financial suffocation that Portuguese families are living in, or Fernando Medina has the perfect notion of reality, but it is marimbar is for the millions of people who use the car, not as luxury, but because of the imperative need to move to their place of work or to take their children to school. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, and considering that the tax revenue will maintain a consolidated rise over the next few years, not seeing any scenario of deflation on the horizon, it is necessary to adopt structural measures of tax reduction rather than temporary character. Portugal has the highest standard VAT rates in the European Union, which is the rate applied to fuels. In our country, the price of fuel is practically in line with most European Union countries, however the wages correspond to half or up to one third of the wages taken from these same countries. Which means that the financial effort a Portuguese makes to supply his car is much greater than the financial effort a German, a French, a Spanish or a Luxembourger make to supply his car. To reduce this gap, the Arrival proposes, through Bill No. 945 / XV / 2. a, the repeal of the additional rate of the ISP and the change of VAT on fuels from the standard rate to the intermediate rate, and this reduction is subject to the authorisation of the European Commission. We understand the importance of the energy transition, but in the face of the current social crisis that the country is going through, to arrive, Portuguese families will always be, but always, in the first place. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u171	We will now turn to the interventions and to the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative and Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To establish the importance of this discussion on oil tax, I will state three obvious facts, that fuels are a huge weight in the family budget and also in the competitiveness of companies — no one is discussing —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u173	A weight on the conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u174	... that taxes represent 50% or more of the final price of fuels — it is arithmetic — and that the State budget for 2024 foresees that more than 600 million euros will be paid last year — is also written there. Therefore, it is indeed important to discuss the ISP, even because it is sick of two serious original sins. The first dates back to 2016, when the additional to the ISP was introduced on the pretext, the argument that, since prices were coming down, it was necessary to support the tax revenue. I remember that at the time, January 2016, the gas oil was at 1, 04 €. Today it is 1, 72 € and last week it was more than 1, 80 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u176	Therefore, the PS adapts the speech, and its opposite, depending on its interest in charging taxes. Now, the price is not excessive for the revenue you are charging, and I repeat the fact that I mentioned recently: more than 600 million euros of taxes will be charged by the end of next year. The second original sin is that it is one of the most obvious cases of double taxation, but it is not the only one. Portugal, in the seal tax or in the vehicle tax, also has double taxes, but the ISP also has them. And it has them when there is carbon — this is always there and is growing — when there is contribution to the road service, when there is additional, when there is no additional, and VAT always falls on each of these parcels. Once again, the PS does not let escape an opportunity — here double-taxing! — to charge taxes. Each of the four projects under discussion tries, in their own way, to atone for these two sins, or by abolishing the additional or ending with double taxation in some way, lowering the tax burden on taxes and therefore will certainly deserve the favourable vote of the Liberal Initiative. Because, yes, they can always count on us when it comes to simplifying or degrading taxes. This is always a struggle worth it, because it does not necessarily result in a breakdown of tax revenue, it has virtuous effects that end up producing economic growth. We believe that and we will always vote accordingly. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u177	For an intervention, by the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on these proposals has indeed been recurrent in recent years and there are, in fact, some relevant notes. On the one hand, the additional to the ISP, which was created in 2016 with the argument that it was necessary to maintain the tax revenue levels at that time when the fuels were at a lower price, proved to be beyond reality at this time. This is because today what we have is, as has already been said, a double taxation on petroleum products, because VAT also affects the value of the ISP. It seems to us that it is a practice that has very little justification and, in fact, means an overcost on the price of fuel, so it must be eliminated. In fact, we brought the vote as early as 2022, but it was rejected. On the other hand, it is important to note in the debate that the increase in the price of fuel is not, in fact, due to tax, but rather because of the profits of oil. The costs of oil products depend, as we know, on the international quote of oil, on the value of the dollar, on the cost of processing and the value of taxes and, successively, on the profit margins have increased. In other words, the liberalisation of the energy sector and the privatization of public energy companies have contributed decisively to this abusive situation of millionaire profits, while increasing the lack of life, and therefore the people are paying this cost. Just look at what happened in recent years with some companies: Galp obtained EUR 580 million of profits by June of this year, plus 21 % compared to the previous year; Repsol in 2023 presented EUR 1, 42 million of profits; BP lost to a profit by 2023 of almost EUR 10 billion. We therefore have another problem which has not been raised and which has to do with the existence of so much profit on the part of energy companies, particularly oil companies, who continue to say that they cannot lower the price. The truth is that what is failing in this area is the lack of public policies and market regulation to ensure that the reduction in the tax burden is not absorbed by a greater profit margin — that is always the risk we have been running. When we should be looking at the scandal that represents these profits at the time of the crisis that the people are going through, the truth is that neither the right hand nor the Socialist Party have wanted to look at this problem. Finally, even at the end of the day, Mr President, there is something that must also be mentioned, because when we speak — and some have already talked about — about decarbonization policies, the focus must be effectively on public transport, because there is no fight against climate change that is minimally effective without a change in the brutal paradigm of transport. It is an investment that is fundamental and therefore we must also look at this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u179	Now, for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These proposals, which we are discussing today, are indeed counter-cyclical proposals with what should be the debate on climate change, because, as long as we have a fuel crisis, we cannot forget their funding, which is already planned in this State budget for 2024 and can increase by 25 %. This funding amounts to EUR 68 million, and it is money that, for example, was equivalent to EUR 72 million which alone would serve the student housing that was not executed last year. The fossil dependence must end once and for all in our country and in this debate it is important not to forget that, between January and August this year, Portugal spent EUR 800 million on measures aimed at addressing the increase in fossil fuels. This value, for example, was sufficient to ensure free passage between 4 and 18 years of age or sub-23 for 6 years. It was also enough to pay almost two years of investment of the National Railway Plan, to maintain the Environmental Fund programme for 153 years to encourage the purchase of electric cars or to maintain zero VAT for another 11 months. Therefore, the NAP cannot, of course, follow these proposals that are more than populists. If we want to fight the climate crisis and help the families, let us do it seriously and let us, once and for all, give money to those who earn the most and more pollution and help those who effectively need it and we also help the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u181	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vera Braz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill brought today the PSD debate is presented in a seven-page document. It remains curious that, on about five of these seven pages, its content is the description of measures taken by this Government to address the increase in fuel costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u184	I'm glad you recognize me, ladies. Members, that this Government and the Socialist Party do not need PSD lessons to act. Portugal was even the first country in Europe to act and one of the few with measures directed towards this sector and, in parallel, also, and not less relevant, to the energy sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u186	It is that if the Portuguese felt in the pocket the increase in fuel costs, the impact on the increase in electricity and gas, without an immediate operation of the existing government, would have even more adverse effects. I give only the example of the creation of the Iberian Electricity Mechanism and the social energy tariff, an important protection for an extended set of more vulnerable families. These are measures that, together with measures already initiated in 2018, have allowed a consistent downward trajectory to continue, placing electricity prices in Portugal below the European Union average. Do you know what that means, Mr? A real saving for the Portuguese. But by returning to fuel, the government has supported consumers through a reduction in taxes and also through the most affected sectors themselves — whether transport or agriculture — of which we do not forget. Therefore, at every moment, in the face of each difficulty, the answers considered most necessary have been adopted. I refer to the maximum fixing of the marketing margins; the suspension of the increase in the carbon rate was partially defrosted because we continue to have environmental objectives; AUTOvoucher, a direct support to the Portuguese, which started at 5 € per month and then increased to 20 € per month; the reduction of the ISP equivalent to the reduction of the reduction of VAT to 13 %; and the reduction of the ISP in the proportion of the increase in VAT revenue. In fact, I am correct: when this measure was adopted for the first time, the additional VAT revenue had been EUR 60 million. Well, Mr, the return to Portuguese was EUR 90 million and therefore above that proportionality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since its implementation, Mr President, there have also been moments of falling down the price of fuels, with less VAT revenue. If there was an automatic mechanism, as is now proposed by the PSD, you know what would happen, honourable Member? The Portuguese would pay more! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But that was not the choice of this government, because to rule, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's more than meeting mathematical formulas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u187	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u188	I shall conclude, Mr President. To govern is to manage uncertainties, it is to make choices at every moment to protect the most vulnerable. This, Mr President, will continue to be our mission: to help families, to help businesses, to mitigate prices and to contribute to social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u189	The Bureau no longer has requests for intervention, and therefore we are closing, which belongs to the PSD Parliamentary Group. To speak, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to comment on some of the things that have been said in this debate and would, perhaps, begin by the intervention of the Portuguese Communist Party, which comes to speak in your proposal, in the preamble, of setting margins and that the PSD is also guilty of rising prices, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u192	I understand that the solution to the PCP is probably just one: nationalizing oil wells in the Pacific and the North Sea. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I think maybe that way they could achieve your goals. Maybe that way! But now, with regard to the various PS interventions — which surprise me enormously, and I must be puzzled! — Mrs Vera Braz has just said that our automatic mechanism would raise prices. Mr Member, I will explain to the Socialist Party how this mechanism works: if the price of fuels increases, VAT is increased and this differential is returned to ISP. It doesn't increase, it's down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u193	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u194	Down for the Portuguese, it's easy to understand. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Deputy, the Prime Minister in 2022, wanted a weekly update of the ISP to reflect these effects of VAT, but then forgot to continue this update.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u195	The idea is Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u196	What we are doing is introducing an automatic mechanism for people to benefit at lower prices. A little while ago, I showed this chart -- maybe it didn't show you enough time -- from ERSE. The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. Mrs Deputy, the darkest green part means that half of the price of gasoline that people pay is taxed, and in gas oil is also about half, is 44 %. I'm going to give an example, so people can understand. If, for a month, a family supplies your car with about 300 € or 400 €—to go to work, to take the children to school, finally, for their needs—, half of that value, 150 € or 200 €, it is for the State, Mrs. Does this not shock the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Eurico Brillante Dias and PCP Member João Dias.]] I come to the conclusion that, in fact — and to conclude, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u197	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u198	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Portuguese are intoxicated with this highly polluting government...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u199	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u200	...and feel that in the pockets, by paying the price of fuel and taxes, every day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u201	With Mr Carneiro's intervention, we close our second item on the agenda. We now move on to point three, which is part of the general discussion of Bill No. 69 / XV / 1. a (CH) — determines the end of the possibility of accumulating pensions by the holders of public and political positions of those beneficiaries. For an intervention, Mr Ventura has the floor, which will make the presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project that brings us...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u203	Mr. Member, just give me a moment, if you don't mind,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...to better organize the plenary. [[Pause.]] I think conditions are now created. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project that brings us here today is of the most fundamental justice. The legislation in force, which allows us to accumulate vital pensions with other pensions, is one of the most flagrant injustices of our democracy and our contribution system. I mean, so you can know what we're talking about at home. António Guterres, who is currently Secretary-General of the United Nations and takes up a salary of €205 000 per year—I repeat, €205 000 per year! — benefits from a vital grant, paid by all Portuguese taxpayers, of EUR 4000 per month. Subline : €205 000, gains every year, with an increase of €4000, paid by all Portuguese as a vital grant. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, who was President of this Assembly of the Republic, Member of Parliament for many years, has a pension, of his own reform, of €3400, to which he adds an unjustified subsidy, paid by all taxpayers, of €2635. Mr. President and Mr. Members, in a year, in a month and in a day when so many cannot pay the house, in which so many cannot pay and put food on their table,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u206	... where you see the taxes of your car vehicles being brutally increased, this is a shame for the Portuguese Republic. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We already know a lot about this story. José Socrates also benefits from one of the vital pensions and, in fact, made it clear : it ended with the life pensions regime, but for others,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] ...because he kept them for him and for those who, like him, ended the way. In the list hidden by social security, but here it is, in my hands, and in the hands of being able to be distributed by all,... The speaker displayed the list he mentioned. ... are names such as Armando Vara and others that embarrassed the Portuguese Republic, but are being paid by the Portuguese taxpayers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Many of them to whom we didn't want to give one cent, but we give thousands, every year, with our taxes! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is under discussion in this bill is the accumulation of these pensions with the pensions of your contribution career. They are values with which 90% of Portuguese can not even dream or have access to them, but they have to know, by this House, that a group of men and women have decided to self-privilegiate one day, and say that you, who work all their lives, end up with 300 €, but we, who are here dealing with ourselves,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u207	That's not true! It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u208	... we end up with pensions of 300 € with others of 3000 €, others of 5000 €, others of 7000 € and others of 13 000 €, in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u209	That's not true! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u210	Yes, sir. Members, yes, there are pensions of €13 000 per month — €13 000 per month! — accumulated. Shame of this House, €13 000 paid with our taxes on these values. Mr. President and Mr. Members, every year, the state spends almost EUR 9 million on these vital pensions. The altar of the Pope, the famous altar of the Pope, cost EUR 3 million — I repeat, EUR 3 million — ; the value given to heavy-duty machine firefighters was EUR 9 million ; the value we applied in the modernisation of the citizenship card was EUR 9 million. For it is known, Portuguese, that every year, every year, of your taxes, of every year of your work, money goes out to pay the most infamous pension: the vital pension of politicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u211	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto spoke for a speech by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our view on the exercise of politics is very clear, it is that politics is not a career, it is rather a desirablely temporary activity that should be able to attract some of the best frameworks of society, so that they will return there after this temporary service. In order for them to truly represent the country, to represent civil society, it is civil society that must come from the political decision-makers. Politicians should not exist in a bubble of privileges or obligations, not only because that is not fair but also because they are far from the world they are legislating. They must, as soon as possible, have the same rights and obligations as all other persons. They should not have rights to place them above others or excessive obligations that remove good people from the political service. We do not align ourselves with the tactics of feeding the deterioration of the image that people have of the holders of political positions. As in all areas, there are the good ones, there are the very good ones, there are the bad ones and there are the bad ones. We will all have different opinions about who it is and ultimately it is up to the voters to decide. We cannot align in the speech that they are all bad, even if some are. We cannot align with the speech that everyone is stealing, even if some are going. This speech may even yield short-term votes, but in the long term it will only help to devalue the democracy and image of all politicians, all of whom, including those who in all party spectrum, in all ideological spectrum fight, genuinely and honestly, for what they believe to be the best for the country. [[Congratulations from the IL and the PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u213	The elimination of the accumulation of pensions is based on a principle of equality between politicians and other people, with which we agree. Unfortunately, it is too common in this House to present proposals that, based on principles that we will even agree that they can be reasonable, take a form of such a bad way that it is impossible for someone of good sense to approve them. In fact, they are not proposed to be approved, they are proposed to be rejected and used as propaganda to excite the most converted and deceive the least attentive. This is the case. [[Congratulations from the IL and the PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u214	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u215	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the project, the aim is to determine the end of the accumulation of pensions by public and political office holders, both those who already receive income on account of that right, both those who already have the acquired right but still do not benefit from it, either to those beneficiaries who have already died and have passed that right to surviving spouses through widow's pension. This is because the law in force has provided for a transitional regime that ensures constitutional conformity, ensuring the non-touchability of acquired rights and the constitutional principle of confidence protection. To propose the elimination of this regime is to directly violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u216	All right! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u217	But it's more than that, and it's enough to know that it is. It proposes this because the proposal is emblematic, it attacks the roots of the democratic regime. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] It ends with all the privileges of all the politicians who founded and built the regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u218	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u219	It seems that, like the heirs, the individual inheritance of the old regime demands a right of revenge against those who dare question it and deposit it. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u220	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u221	It proposes it and looks forward to it being rejected, in order to ensure that the anti-system flag remains stagnant. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is enough to taste the freedom that the regime allows it, but it conspires hard against democracy. Enough. [[Congratulations from PSD and PS MP Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u222	Please! Democracy is glaring!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u223	The arrival takes advantage of the representativeness that the system gives it, but desperately desires to eliminate it. It's too late. All privileges have already been extinguished. They have been extinct over these 50 years of democracy,... [[Congratulations from PSD and PS MP Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... above all in this century, between 2002 and 2013, after the swamp and the ransom. The parties of the regime, it seems, may have feared the populism and the rapid expansion of extreme-right and extreme-left radical parties, and decided to end all privileges of the political class and to increase exhaustively impediments, incompatibilities and transparency requirements. All this azafama was the most visible face of those fears. to arrive, there is only the privilege of being able to use demagogy and to stir up populism, to take advantage of despair and suffering, anger and the revolt of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] While we failed to transform Portugal, many families and companies failed. We have failed the promise, the ambition and the desire to fulfil the cohesion that we promise the Portuguese people and the European partners. We failed almost 40 years of Community support. We progressed a decade, between 1985 and 1995 ; we returned and established two decades, between 2003 and 2023. We gave populists rods and flags to banish the regime. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u224	Are you kidding me now?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u225	We give reasons to qualified young people and workers martyred by poverty to emigrate. We are a country that denies the future a question of hope and predictability. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The Portuguese live in distress. Portugal can't stand it, but it doesn't come out of line. Populism and radicalism, on the right and on the left, take advantage. The arrival presents us with unacceptable proposals to corrode the regime and undermine the system. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u226	Without weight and smell, it comes to us with tragicomedias, inappropriate language, provocative behaviors and bombastic proposals that we know to be against the Constitution. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] An exercise that benefits nothing from the democratic opposition, it is only a free damage to the freedoms and guarantees and the founding principles of the Constitution and the regime. And yet, ladies and gentlemen. Members, fulfilling cohesion and allowing Portuguese rights and duties similar to those of their European citizens was, is and continues to be the most useful and effective weapon to make all populist causes and proposals useless. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u227	The budget in the Azores is going to go wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u228	To give an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the living conditions get worse, the prices of essential goods and services are high, the housing costs continue to increase and wages and pensions do not give until the end of the month, the Arrival opts to try to divert attention from the pressing problems to hide their convergence with the PS, the PSD and the Liberal Initiative... [[CH's laughs.]] ...in defending the interests of economic and multinational groups, contrary to the interests of workers and the people. But let's go to the debate. The leaders of the Arrival were still in the PSD and CDS and supported vital subsidies, and the PCP had a long intervention to put an end to them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u230	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u231	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u232	The CFP has always opposed the existence of special regimes for those exercising political positions and over the years has advanced with proposals to this end and has accompanied the initiatives to this end. Since 2005 vital grants have been revoked. In the 2015 State Budget, a rule was adopted which provided for the payment of vital grants to the condition of appeals, a rule which the Constitutional Court considered unconstitutional for breach of the principle of trust. The question which has already been put here by the Constitutional Court, which has decided that the vital subsidies already allocated cannot be cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u233	Truth! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u234	False, it's not true! They can be limited!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u235	What can still be changed, in respect of the Constitution, is the setting of a limit, as proposed by the CFP, of accumulation of vital grant with the reform or pension, without compromising the subsistence of the beneficiaries or causing their insolvency, and it cannot result in a higher amount than the maturity of the political office that gave rise to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u236	Oh, isn't that a restriction? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u237	As for the accumulation of reforms by administrators and shareholders, the arrival has nothing to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u238	Exactly! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u239	It does not see any drawback in which directors or administrators of undertakings, independent administrative or regulatory entities, or of undertakings with preponderant State intervention benefit from privileges, and may in some cases decide on their own, self-rendering additional remuneration, premiums or creating special schemes providing for royalties, for termination of retirement or retirement. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] He sees no inconvenience because it is the interests of those who defend and those who represent here. That is why the initiative of the Arrival has no useful meaning. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u240	Mrs. Members of the coming Parliamentary Group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u241	You are on the brink of the abyss and take a step forward! [[PCP protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u242	... Mr. André Ventura, allow me: the whole plenary knows that the initiative is from the Arrival and the whole plenary has been attentive to what you have said. You must also now let the other parliamentary groups intervene on your project. It's been too bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u243	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u244	...for Mrs Paula Santos to make her speech, and I commend her for the way she has managed, despite everything. I will now give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua, from the Left Block, and I would like you to have respect for the parliamentary group of the Arrival and the others for what you have to tell us. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I really wanted to talk about vital pensions; not about the citizen's card, nor about the pope's altar, nor about the heavy machines of the sapphires, and only slightly about democracy. I understand that the arrival has a complex history of this matter. After all, it was because of the receipt of a vital pension, of which he did not abdicate, who lost his spokesman Sousa Lara, at a time when the Block of the Left here brought this maximum incongruence of the party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u246	I took him away! [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u247	They have had to resolve, and on this matter we have no question. [[CH protests.]] In 2004...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me: we have a little moment of silence here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u249	It's better to explain what this is, where we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u250	We're five of you and we're twelve!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u251	Mr Pedro Pinto, Mr André Ventura, I will not reiterate what I have already asked for at the beginning of Mrs Joana Mortágua's speech. I'm not gonna do it, we're all smart people and we understand what's going on. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. The Left Block is very much ready on this matter. All the Members of the Left Block have so far rejected, even while there was, the privilege of this vital pension for the holders of public office, and we always defend its end, not only for the holders of public office, but also for a set of privileges, pensions, royalties and other benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u253	How to accumulate wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u254	In 2004, the first bill presented in the Assembly of the Republic on the end of this regime began with the following words : « Is this a matter of all relevance in democratic societies today: is it necessary to serve the public cause alone, it is no longer sufficient stimulus for the citizens? » The answer remains the same. The Left.net, which is so often quoted here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u255	What's that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u256	I've never seen it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u257	... has an article called Vital Grants: The History of a Privilege. The speaker referred to the article. It tells the story of the Left Block in the parliamentary dispute at the end of this regime, in all its episodes, that went through many debates in the Assembly, many votes, a go to the Constitutional Court, advances and retreats, in which the Left Block maintained its consistency and will continue to maintain. Democracy lives in public office holders who serve the people and who do not want to serve any privilege of the positions they occupy. That is the position we will maintain. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u258	Pulling out the direct settings from the Chamber of Almada!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u259	How are you going to vote on the Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u260	To give an intervention by the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the NAP, it is clear and clear that no one in politics should be to enrich, to benefit, but to be in a transitory manner serving the public cause. This is not consistent with accumulation, whether of interests, vital pensions or even other interests, but, of course, with this service for the common good. But the remuneration does not go into a populist wave, as it brings us here: a populist discourse that somehow mixes up to, in a project, not only a poorly constructed and weak argument from the point of view of the foundation...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u262	Look, look!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u263	... but also questions constitutionality. However, it is clear that the NAP does not agree with this kind of privilege. Let it be clear that one thing is not to agree with these privileges and we will know that they no longer work for the future; the different thing is there is a serious and reasoned debate on how we can limit or rethink them.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u264	Sure! It's 10 years from now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u265	But this is another missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u266	I could have taken advantage of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u267	It's a missed opportunity because it goes by the hand, precisely, of the Arrival, which you want, with this...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u268	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u269	I would conclude if I were here to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u270	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u271	I've outlived the time he had, because he arrives repeatedly, interrupts. I know that it's bad about democracy, but in democracy, one minute is a minute and we all have our right to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u272	Mrs. Deputy, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u273	You are now part of the right! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u274	We will wait as long as it takes until you feel that you have conditions to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u275	I'm an extremely patient person, Mr. President, so...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u276	Me, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u277	It is essential for the NAP to have a serious debate on this subject, but we will not, of course, do so with the tow of a populist proposal which, in some way, comes here to make an adjustment of accounts with which we do not agree. But we believe that, indeed, there must be a certain moralization of what is the accumulation of these types of pensions, especially those with whom it is active and with whom it has other kinds of remuneration for the functions it currently performs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u278	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before we start with the analysis of the proposal that is brought to us, I think it was important, too, to bear in mind what is the reason for being the regime when it was created in the 1980s. If it is true that he was subject to successive revisions and that there were parties that consistently, since then, opposed — that is the case of the CFP —, what is true is that, on the basis of this regime, was the recognition that many of the people who exercised public functions at that time were people who were deprived of contributing careers, because much of their civic, political and labor life had been passed or in exile...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u281	... or in context where it was not possible to ensure social security discounts and they did not have a contribution regime leading them to a pension. Of course, time has passed. Time has passed, which means that the contribution schemes applicable to all citizens have also become applicable to members of the government and to Members, and there has been a time when it was concluded that the scheme had ceased to make sense. In addition, this scheme was revised: the eight years necessary to ensure the vital grant were, however, increased and increased to twelve years of exercise of functions, the minimum age from which this scheme was also increased, and indeed the legislator was never unaware of the situation it created — which was in fact different from a non-contributory regime — and so, in 2005 it was revised — it has now been underlined — by the proposal of the then Government of the Socialist Party and approved in this House with the abstention of the CDS, not by unanimity, but by the abstention of the CDS. Therefore, the recognition that a regime approved in the House, also with a large majority, had ceased to make sense was also recognized by a large majority of this House. But one thing, too, let's not forget: this does not mean that history was forgotten and that people who had a proper expectation of trust in subsidies that they legitimately acquired during the period in which it prevailed, without ever having been challenged its constitutionality, could not be unprotected. And therefore there has been a transitional regime since 2005, a transitional regime that guarantees pensions that were paid and that cautions those who, in the meantime, have fulfilled the 12 years required in the course of only that legislature. The scheme therefore ended in 2005. However, after that, there were several moments in which the regime was revised, with regard to the possibility of accumulation with work activity, and today—it has not been said, until now—someone who resumes his work activity sees reduced the value of the vital subsidy in the amount of the activity he develops as a still working person. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u282	Why? Because, if you have the ability to produce an income, this is discounted from the value of the vital grant. The red line — a red line drawn up by the Constitutional Court — is when this is done by calling into question contributions, resulting from discounts made by these beneficiaries during their contribution careers, which was what the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional. When a condition of resources was placed to access the vital grant, and more, when this condition of resources contained and weighed the value of the income of the family aggregate, the Constitutional Court understood, as much as it can be disputed, that there may be different opinions—and there was, over the years; the Block, for example, opposed to the existence of a transitional regime—and although these objections existed, no one ceased to recognize that the legal order exists, the protection of trust exists and people who are no longer in a position to resume their professional activity and to be able to work again to collect money which, in the limit, allows discounts, must have an equivalent protection scale.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u283	That's Guterres!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u284	For this reason, what is brought here today, which is the non-accumulation of pensions of a contributing nature with the vital grant, is barred in the traves of constitutionality, because, frankly, it challenges the principle of the protection of trust. This is not a debate on which the model we should adopt or not with respect to former holders of political positions. This debate has been done several times over the past 50 and 40 years. We have done so, for example, recognizing that the position, for example, of the President of the Republic must be distinguished, as all legal orders do, because they recognize that the Head of State, someone who represents externally the Republic and who continues to do so when he is a vital member of the Council of State, must have a differentiated treatment to ensure his independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u285	And international charges!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u286	Someone who has been the face of the Republic must be guarded by the Republic until the end of its physical existence, which is why we continue to have a different regime for the President of the Republic and for other holders who have acted differently. That is why this is a lazy, easy and populist exercise, because it does not really take into account the principles that originated in a regime that, once again I say so, this House decided to end in 2005 because it ceased to justify itself, and obviously also disregards the legal regime that stems from the Constitution, in which one of the basic principles, immediately in Article 2. the, is the protection of trust.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u288	I added only the following, because I also think it is important for this debate: it is also false to hear that certain people A, B or C receive a certain value, when it is known that the legal regime determines that, if these people are performing functions and are continuing to make discounts, that value is discounted from the vital subsidy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u289	But they're getting the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u290	So, first of all, let's not shake the waters, talking about boring values that are not true,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and, secondly, when accumulation values are invoked, the value that is accumulated, often, is from pensions whose origin was also contributing. Therefore, agreeing today, or not, with the regime, with what might have been a mistake for some, for others a factor of justice, of recognition of the past, of resistance to dictatorship...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u291	What a dictatorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u292	... and that determined the beginning of the path that built this regime, is not that debate that we are doing here today. We have had a regime lawfully in force for about 40 years, and this regime has produced expectations in the legal sphere of people, and of course it would be wrong for the Republic if we were now to say, by populist whim, that we would now repeal them. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u293	He's got Ko!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u294	We now move on to the speech of the Freeman by Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u295	They've learned!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u296	Pedro, you're back there! Come here and talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u297	How many months have you not spoken here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u298	Let's just hold on a little longer, until the conditions are created. [[Pause.]] I think they're now raised. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, including those who, by not recognizing democracy within this House, implicitly recognize that they are not Members and Members of all Portuguese, but only those who voted in them, because if that is what is good for the President — not what is now in place, because I would not say this in front of the President of the Assembly — who say that he is only President of some banks, they also recognise that they are only Members of some Portuguese,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u300	If it weren't for him, I'd have a vice president!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u301	...and they are only members of some Portuguese, unlike those who assume that democracy works. It works to elect us, it works to elect who is there, at that table. The Free... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u302	We must hear Mr Rui Tavares. Just a moment, sir. [[CH protests.]] I'm asking for restraint in the separate areas. Mr Rui Tavares is speaking and will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u303	There were a few seconds that were lost, because of the Reach. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u304	Don't lose any seconds and if there were a few seconds that the clock kept counting, let's put the seconds back.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u305	Yes, Mr. President. Mr Pinto does not like the word « algazarra», because it is an Arabic word. [[Rice from PS and PCP Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u306	Look, turn around and get out!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u307	The Free is against the accumulation of pensions by holders of political and public positions, who are beneficiaries of them. We would never vote... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr. Pedro Pinto, let me finish. I have five seconds to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u308	Mr. Pedro Pinto, moderation! Let Mr Rui Tavares exercise his democratic right to speak. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u309	I don't know if, not liking « algazarra», prefer « bauderna» or any other expression. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u310	"Alarvidad" also gives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u311	No, the shocks were a respectable people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u312	You have to help me run the work. In fact, the author of this initiative is arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u313	They don't want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u314	This debate is being held. They have to listen to different opinions, because that is how democracy demands it. And, therefore, if you don't mind, we really have to listen — and I, in fact, hear with pleasure, always — Mr Rui Tavares. So, have the kindness to continue, and I ask all of you once again. Members who do not contribute for Mr Rui Tavares to speak, to be moderated. Now, please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's mutual esteem and I'll be very brief. We agree that there is no pension accumulation. But we believe that there is no morale on the part of a party which does not respect the Constitutional Court ; that once it has manifested itself in front of the Constitutional Court ; that it has handed over to the Constitutional Court signatures which have proved false and illegal...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u316	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u317	... and that he never clarified exactly; and that then, when he is confronted with something, he remembers Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who was the first Member of the Free. You can talk about her at ease! Why do you always remember Mrs Joacine when you're faced with something?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u318	As she would say, it's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u319	You don't have, this party, no morals...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u320	Shut up, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u321	...to assert the right to introduce morals in public life. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u322	He's quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u323	Thank you very much, Mr Rui Tavares, and, if I may, I would also like to thank you for the consistent way you have managed to maintain your intervention. Sometimes it becomes difficult, but this time I praise you for your ability, your yield and your commitment. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u324	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u325	Bonomie has limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u326	Well, I think that, now that there is no further request for a word, we are closing this third item on the agenda. To close the debate, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u327	O Rui, you have to teach your advisor to talk on the phone!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u328	The time of PIDE (International Police and State Defense) is over!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, there is one thing that is clear and will be clear to the Portuguese people—is that there is one party that wants to fight the privileges and there is another assembly of the Republic that wants to maintain the privileges of politicians. [[Congrats from the CH.]] On the other hand, a right that has long ceased to be and has long ceased to represent any people on the right, says: "Yes, it is bad, it is wrong, but we cannot. It is enough that presents, it is too bad, there comes fascism, there come the evils who want to benefit those who have fought so much for our democracy to exist today. Do not keep on seeking. ” And I, for moments, imagine those men and women in the country all that are seeing us, those men and women who rose at 6 or 7 hours to go to work, to hear Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves speak of those who, in the 1970s, 80s, 90s, were privileged of the political system in the 2000s. Here are two choices: those who want to choose to be next to them and those who want to praise and protect these privileged ones. We will always be on the other side, always to confront these privileged ones. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, sir. Members, not all privileges have been extinguished, because otherwise we would not have a United Nations Secretary-General to earn more than 200 000 € and receive a vital pension.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u330	He doesn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u331	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u332	... otherwise we wouldn't have anyone who earns hundreds of thousands of euros every year still withdrawing the taxpayers another part of their values from their taxes. No, sir. Members, not all have been privileged. I don't know who those exiles were who fought a lot and who are here today on the list of vital pensions. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u333	You don't even know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u334	But I see here Armando Vara and, in fact, we can see that Armando Vara was a man in exile who fought for democracy. At least in the PCP, he did his job. José Socrates, this exile, this man who, in fact, in Paris, in Ericeira and in so many places around the world was fighting for democracy, while defending us all! Open... [[Congrats from the CH.]] The exiles of the regime. The exiles of the regime are the reason why this shameful list I have here in my hand. The speaker again displayed the document he mentioned. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth the speech that the opportunity is lost. The NAP says if you miss an opportunity and I myself went to see what the NAP proposal was. It was zero, it was none. What was the left block proposal? None. The Block doesn't want to accumulate pensions, but wages don't care much anymore and there might be. It's a variation in what we have and what we have. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the heat of this debate, this phrase reads: "The April regime has created privileges, but also expectations of those who have fought and to whom the regime has given expectations and constitutional order wants to give security. Do not keep on seeking. ” I look at all this and I see, how many today should realize, when they had their wages and saw them cut, when they saw themselves, in taxes, walking back, when they saw the taxes of their cars in 1996 and 2007, in this State Budget, increased, they know what they think? Do you know what they understand? You realize that, for us, everything is privilege.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u335	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u336	For them, everything is cost, tax and sacrifice. That's what they understand, and that's what they understand. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, yes, if we have to choose among those who are elected, if we have to choose between this House, if we have to choose among the privileges that sustain 40 years of democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u337	Forty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u338	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u339	... and these are on one side and the other is the Portuguese people, you can be sure, Mr. President, that our choice will always be one: it will be that of the Portuguese people, because this list, this list that is here,... The speaker again displayed the document he mentioned. ...is the shame of the Third Portuguese Republic. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u340	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we thus conclude item 3 of the agenda and move on to point 4, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 854 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code, eliminating the current tax discrimination of used vehicles from the European Union, in the discussion of draft resolution No 824 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the automatic return of the unlawfully charged ISV, and also to the general discussion of draft Law No 943 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — eliminates double taxation of vehicle tax ( ISV ) and VAT ( value added tax ) on motor vehicles. To that end, I give the floor to Mr Bernardo Branco, who will present Bill No 854 / XV / 1. a ( IL).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot allow the Tax Authority to tax the Portuguese who want to enjoy the freedom of movement of the European Union. Today, the Tax Authority is punishing, as seen by the ISV, anyone who wants to import a car from another Member State. We are going to the story: in 2021, after several years of complaints of Portuguese and of the contempt of the Government, the Court of Justice of the European Union declared the failure by Portugal to comply with European rules on the free movement of goods due to the form of collection of the ISV on imported vehicles. However, in view of this decision, in the State budget for 2021, the government changed the law, but only partially, and insufficiently, given that there are differences in the criteria between depreciation according to the cylinder component and the environmental component. The use of different rates, as can be seen in Table D of Article 11. the, gives rise to different tax charges, whether the vehicle is imported or not. This is also the understanding of the Public Prosecutor's Office and, therefore, the law continues to contravene European rules which prohibit this tax discrimination. However, the Portuguese State has already lost in several processes placed at the Administrative Arbitration Centre. In view of all this, it is our obligation, in the light of the principles of good faith and of the legality to which the State must be subject, to correct the legislation and to eliminate this discrimination, so as to cease the illegal collection of taxes that harm the Portuguese, thus also avoiding future disputes for all. That is our first proposal today. The second proposal concerns exactly the ISV which was unlawfully charged between 2017 and 2021, which is what the Government will have to do after the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also now the Constitutional Court, which refused the appeals of the Tax Authority. Our proposal is that, as has happened with the IUC, which has been illegally charged in recent years in the light of European rules, a feature is created in the Finance Portal that allows this automatic return. If this was possible for the IUC, it will also be possible for the ISV. On the one hand, we must correct the error in the legislation and, on the other hand, we must ensure that, who has already suffered the error, has his money back, as simple as possible. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u342	Mr Bernardo Blanco, I must inform you that you have a request for clarification from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in particular from Mr Diogo Cunha. Have kindness, Mr. Diogo Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival proposes the elimination of ISV and VAT taxation on motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u344	Double taxation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u345	It is up here to remind us of the essence of vehicle tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u346	Double!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u347	I'm going to the IL. Calm down, Mr. Deputies. As I said, it is up here to remind us of the essence of vehicle tax, which is a tax that presents an extra-fiscal objective. Article 1. the ISV Code provides "to charge taxpayers as much as the costs they cause in the fields of the environment, road infrastructure and road sinequality. Do not keep on seeking. ” We cannot consider the ISV to be covered by a tax objective similar to VAT. The VAT Code itself provides that the taxable value of transfers of goods and services subject to tax includes taxes, duties, fees and other taxes, with the exception of VAT itself. Therefore, this bench does not accept this argument, nor do we see ourselves in this double tax classification. We are faced with two taxes, with the scope and nature of different applications, provided for in each of their codes. These tax notions are also important to interpret the draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative. It is true that the Government will continue to promote the application of the law in accordance with the decisions of the higher courts. For the Liberal Initiative, all taxes are bad, we already know. The IL should present here how it would support road prevention, the maintenance of road infrastructures and mitigate the environmental effects of traffic caused by imported cars. Considering the importance of the ISV, as a tax seeking to compensate for the negative impacts of road traffic, is the Liberal Initiative revised at the end of the application of this tax? Mr Bernardo Blanco, does it not seem to you that a car used, imported, does not have exactly the same negative impacts as a new car purchased in Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u348	To reply, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor. [[Pause.]] If Mr. Bernardo Blanco wants to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u349	Mr. President, I was trying to understand the question. Mr President, the proposal has nothing to do with ending ISV or whatever. I don't know if you've read it, but basically, it's nothing about it. There is tax discrimination, Portugal has already been punished several times, all courts are unanimous in this. The proposal is to put an end to this tax discrimination between imported and non-imported cars, taking into account the principle of the free movement of the European Union, which I agree with. I therefore cannot agree with your final question, precisely because I agree with this European principle. If I understood correctly, that was about the question. Having regard to Article 1. the ISV, which says that it is seeking « to pay taxpayers to the extent of the costs they cause in the fields of the environment, road infrastructure and road fatality », would like to now—and this is a small comment to the part— that it also seeks to read the IUC Code, which says « to pay taxpayers to the extent of the environmental and road costs that they cause », which is basically the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u350	That wasn't my question!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u351	Only for reflection of the House: we have two taxes and, looking at the Code of the Two, have basically the same objective. Today, I do not propose to end any of them, but perhaps they may think if there are two taxes for the same purpose. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u352	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, having a car in Portugal is a luxury. It's a luxury! What should be a necessity for people to go to work, to study, to take their children to school, to do their basic needs is a luxury. ISV is paid, VAT is paid, ISP is paid, 50 % of the fuel is paid, IUC is paid, and it will soon be the day Fernando Medina says that to walk in the car itself, you will have to pay for oxygen tax. It has already failed more, it will be a measure which will be very soon of this Minister of Finance. But with regard to this proposal, it is important to understand — and the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party once again do not want to understand that we are facing a failure — that exists, whether they want or not, double taxation. Otherwise, let's see: the ISP is the tax that is charged on the production of a car. When the vehicle is registered it has that tax. When the vehicle is sold to the final consumer it is added VAT, VAT which includes the ISP which was automatically imposed on the production of that vehicle. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it or is it not double taxation? Only the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party do not want to see this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u354	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u355	In view of some of the interventions we have heard from the honourable Members today. Members of the PSD, I am curious to see what the PSD's own opinion on this matter will be. It's just that this isn't coming from now on! The Socialist Party simply keeps — keep! — what the Constitutional Court has already said cannot happen. There was an appeal by the Tax Authority for the Constitutional Court, and it lost. The Constitutional Court ordered a review. The European Union said that this tax on imported vehicles is illegal, but once again the Socialist Government has decided to maintain it. Why? It is very easy: the value to pay fines to the European Union is much lower than it earns by collecting this tax. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to have a pingo, a pingo of shame and assume here: "We charge because we understand that we should charge, because in this case the crime compensates. » The PSD did not have the courage, in the years when it was in government, to take this away. And that's why I said I'm curious, very curious, to see what the PSD is going to say about this. I am going to leave a small example, or two, of how the tax burden on cars in Portugal is much, much greater than in the other countries of the European Union, and the orders are much, but much lower. A Renault Clio in Portugal costs approximately leaving the stand, €20,300; in Spain, €15,500; and in France, €15,700. We're rich! This is taxed, because the value of production is exactly the same. The Skyactiv model in Spain costs €35,900 ; in France, €37,450; in Portugal, €48,700. Are we or are we not a rich country? No, we're not! We are from the poorest countries in Europe, we are from the least developed countries in Europe and from the most penalised countries by an absolutely unjust fiscal policy carried out by the government that these people support. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it or is it not double taxation? I would like you to assume it here today because for us it is. And the project of the Arrival says precisely that we should go to the source of the problem and, in the VAT code, amend articles 16. it's 17. o, which deal with this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u356	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Government is doing in the matter of taxation, from now on in the taxation of vehicles, is a shame and is very revealing of this governance of tricks, illusions, fallacies, appearances, tax voracity. And, no, there is no excess of adjective. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, all and any adjectivement used is always very little to illustrate the modus operandi of this socialist governance in our country. The Government continues to refuse to accept the decisions of the European bodies which consider the collection of ISV illegal on used vehicles, even knowing that this money does not belong to it, even knowing that this money is from the taxpayers. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the government sleeps really well and nothing makes it sleep on this matter. [[PSD applause.]] And now something much more grueling: the brutal increase of the IUC. When a government announces a reduction in revenue collection, in particular because of the 30% reduction in domestic tolls, and then it comes to know that this loss of revenue is offset by the increase of another tax, in this case of the IUC, this has a name — it is called a tax ridicule! [[PSD applause.]] When that same government does not contain to increase the new tax in order to obtain the same lost revenue, but it gets that revenue in double that lost one, that has a name—it is called a tax sheet, tax sheet! [[PSD applause.]] When that government itself raises taxation, which will penalise only the poorest, yes, the most disadvantaged, the poorest, the most needy. Ladies and gentlemen, who has a car before 2007, in the overwhelming majority of cases, is because he can't buy a better car, a newer car and, you know, the difficulties he has to buy or keep the car he has—that has a name—he calls himself punishment, tax punishment! [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a government of the fiscal joke, a government of the tax office, a government of tax punishment does not deserve forgiveness! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u358	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered a request for clarification, which will be made by Mr Filipe Melo of the Arrival, to whom I shall immediately turn the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u359	Mr President, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, I ask three very simple questions. First question: confirms that 2010 was the year of passage of the old AI (car tax) to the ISV? Was it 2010? Second question: from 2011 to 2015 was the government PSD? Third question: in this period of government, the tax burden was increased by EUR 1, EUR 4 billion, and the same increase in the ISV was also envisaged? Those are the questions I leave you with. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u360	To reply, if you understand that, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think the honourable Member of the European Union, with all due respect, is wrong in this debate because we have heard him switch the Constitutional Court to the Court of the European Union and now it seems that he is changing the governance of the PS for the governance of the PSD. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the honourable Member of the Arrival is wrong and quite wrong about this because he is talking about a tax that has been raised by the PS government and not by the PSD government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u363	Mr. Filipe Melo is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u364	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u365	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u366	Mr President, I would like to ask you to have Mrs Sara Madruga in particular to distribute to the benches, and to Mrs Sara Madruga in particular, what I have here and which proves that there is no time frame for me, there is certainly a lack of selective understanding on the part of the honourable Member. What I have here says: « Constitutional holds tax on ISV of importeds» and « Imported users. The European Court of Justice considers that the ISV is unlawful ». So I don't know where I was contradicting myself. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u367	Mr President, please provide the Bureau with the written documentation, which we will have to distribute. For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, this issue of taxation that is applied to motor vehicles is a discussion that has not started now, has already been happening for several years, and we recall, in fact, the debate that took place in this House, in 2018, about the discussion of a petition which was then presented on this subject. We believe that this discussion can and should continue and the CFP will continue to be available for the debate in a constructive and serious way, with a point that matters, however, to underline. I am referring to the question of social justice which is underlying taxation and on this we basically reaffirm the approach we had at that time. Let me remind you of Article 104 (4). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic: « The taxation of consumption aims to adapt the structure of consumption to the evolution of the needs of economic development and social justice, and must pay for the consumption of luxury. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, we know that this situation does not affect all car segments equally and we cannot ignore that there is a situation of deep inequality in which the layers of the population with lower purchasing power continue to have much more difficulty, and it is not of the utility cars we are talking about, normally. We therefore reaffirm our view that social justice and the concrete living conditions of people cannot be forgotten in the midst of debates on energy transition, decarbonization, etc. etc. etc. In fact, this foreign idea that the Government has brought to the debate of the Budget, which we must have, to greatly increase the IUC for vehicles prior to 2007 is another scandalous and aberrant measure of social injustice to penalise, in particular, those who have less and who do not have the possibility to exchange cars. Moreover, someone who thinks about environmental objectives, while maintaining the very serious lack of collective transport that exists in Portugal, is not facing the central problem. When the advantages and benefits are directed to other segments, to other layers, I would say to other car models, which, as a rule and to a large extent, are very distant particularly from those who have less and less can, we alert to the need to look differently at this taxation, but also to a specific problem of unfair competition which, in practice, is penalizing many national companies in the automotive sector on behalf of such European Union decisions. Let me stress that we have always stated that there must be no double taxation of tax, as is the case with VAT on ISV. In addition, today at this plenary session, at another point on the agenda, the CFP drew attention by presenting proposals on the price of fuels and the application of VAT on the ISP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a debate that we can and should continue. On the part of the CFP, we will not vote against these proposals and we reaffirm our readiness for this debate, a debate that should not be left either by the branch or by the titles and headings. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u369	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this is not the first time we are discussing this issue in the Assembly of the Republic, in fact, this issue has already been brought up by the Liberal Initiative, which has put forward some proposals. Therefore, it is not a new debate in the Assembly of the Republic and it should not be a new debate for the government itself, until there is a succession of decisions, including courts in our country, that make a mistake that is happening. It seems clear to us that the issue of double taxation, as has already been mentioned here, and we refer to it in the previous debate, must always be taken into account in these debates, until it is necessary to ensure that taxation, in particular this type of double taxation, does not harm those who have less and who may necessarily be more harmed. Like what happened in previous times, we will obviously follow these debates and make them eventually follow up on their resolution. I just wanted to leave one last note, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We really need to look at this matter not only, as has been said here, because it is essential that people can ensure the purchase of individual cars, but because taxation must be fair. What we as a State must collectively ensure is that mobility is increasingly, primarily, made through public transport, and that is the missing investment. The debate on taxes and individual transport is also important. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u371	Again, I give the floor to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group through Mr Carlos Brás.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are well aware of the Liberal Initiative's billboard in tax terms and we know that it abhors everything that is taxed, because it does not recognize the tax system as one of its main functions — the redistributive and mitigating function of the negative externalities that markets generate. The vehicle tax, which has already been said, is in line with the principle of equivalence, seeking to pay the taxpayers to the extent of the costs that they cause in the fields of the environment, road infrastructure and road sinequality. For the Bill No 854 / XV / 2. a (IL), which aims to amend the Vehicle Tax Code, we recognize that there is indeed room for improvements in this area and, above all, we believe that it is the duty of the Government to simplify the tax system in order to increase voluntary compliance and to reduce litigation. For this reason, in 2024, the Government will carry out a complete analysis and review of tax case law in order to reduce expectations. This analysis will aim not only to conform to the position of the AT (Tributary Authority ) with the best jurisprudence of the higher courts, but also to change the law so that new problems can be avoided. This work has already begun in conjunction with the European Commission and will be continued during the year 2024. As regards the draft resolution of the IL, which recommends that the Government carry out the automatic return of the unlawfully charged ISV, it should be recalled, Mrs and Mrs. Members, who currently may require the return of the ISV from the AT by normal means if it has been unlawfully charged. Claims from AT may be filed via the Finance Portal, in a completely electronic and dematerialized manner. In addition, it is reported that this procedure is already being prepared on the AT side and that no need for any change is present. Finally, Bill No. 943 / XV / 2. a (CH) aims to eliminate double taxation of ISV and VAT. In fact, it is in the purchase of a vehicle that the ISV is exempt from the taxable value of VAT. That's VV. Ex. They want to. As has already been said, ISV is a tax that has an extrafiscal character, so it is neither confused nor alternative to VAT. Furthermore, the VAT code itself has, and has also already been referred to, the taxable value of the transmissions of goods and services includes taxes, duties, taxes and other taxes, with the exception of VAT itself. in this sense, it does not appear to accept the proposed argument that we are facing a double taxation, since, as already mentioned, the two taxes are not confused in their nature and scope. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u373	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative spoke of the IUC, the Arrival spoke of the IUC, the PCP spoke of the IUC, only the PS did not speak of the IUC. And why? Because this party has fled from this important matter, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Brás.]] Take it easy, sir! We understand well the discomfort of the Socialist Party with this brutal increase of the IUC, which will affect more than 3, 5 million Portuguese, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is that a Renault Clio will have an increase of 232 %, a Ford Fiesta will have an increase of 113 %, a Volkswagen Golf will have a tax increase of 150 %. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD will come up with a proposal to put an end to this little shame. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u375	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have reached the end of the speeches, and we will therefore proceed to the conclusion of the debate. Continuation of PS protests and PSD counterprotests. I would ask the PS and PSD Members to finish their lateral conversations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u376	They haven't figured out where they are yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u377	Do you also want to join the PSD and PS conversation? You'd better not. To close the debate, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u378	Mr President: When the Socialist Party starts the debate saying that the Liberal Initiative's paper is that all taxes should unfortunately end, there is no parliamentary debate possible and serious to correct an illegal situation,... [[Applause from the IL.]] ...what is really very sad for democracy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our concern about the fiscal cruelty of this budget increase in the IUC is a lot, but today's issue is not that, and the importance of collective transport is also clear, but today's issue is not that either. The debate today is about the thousands of Portuguese who have been harmed by this illegal charge of the ISV of imported cars. The fact is that the government was so willing to charge more taxes that it had a tax discrimination in the ISV which violated European rules, as it had already had in the IUC. The IUC was considered illegal, it was necessary to correct and then it was necessary to return automatically. And now what is required is that the ISV — in the light of both the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and other national courts — do exactly the same. This collection was considered illegal, it is necessary to correct, here is the proposal, and then it is necessary to return automatically to the Portuguese, and here is also the proposal. The Socialist Party either wants to correct an illegal situation or does not want to correct it, and there are certainly people who are being harmed by this situation will make their decisions. That is what the Liberal Initiative here today proposes, i.e. correcting an illegal situation, doing justice and simplifying people's lives. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-10-19.u379	We have thus come to the end of our work today. Allow me, then, to take a few more seconds to announce tomorrow's agenda of work on Friday, October 20. In the first item of the agenda, the annual report of activities of 2022 of the Ombudsman shall be considered. The second point will be discussed in Law Nos 87 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the support measures for Olympic, Paralympic and high-performance sports practitioners after the end of their sports career and 94 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime of the integrity of sport and the fight against anti-sport behaviors, Bill No. 942 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates harassment as a disciplinary infringement under the legal regime of sports federations and provides for the establishment of channels for reporting infringements of standards of protection of sport ethics and also of Resolution Projects Nos 932 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures that impact high-level athletes and 935 / XV / 2. a (PAN) — Consecrate on September 26 as the national day of the paralympic athlete. In the third point, draft Law Nos 307 / XV / 1 will be evaluated. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates the sustainability factor and orders the informal recalculation in all pensions paid by PSP professionals, 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — regulates the provision of additional work in the Public Security Police ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ), and 821 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in security forces and services as well as Resolution Projects Nos 203 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the review of the PSP gratified table, 859 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the opening of the negotiation process for the amendment of the remuneration rates of the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard, and 936 / XV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revise the model of compensation for additional work in the Public Security Police. The fourth point will discuss Resolution Projects Nos 918 / XV / 2. a ( BE ) — Investing in a National Health Service of proximity and quality in Ovar as opposed to the relocation of the population to a local health unit, 572 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary procedures for the integration of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, Ovar, and primary health care, Ovar, in the Local Health Unit between the Douro and Vouga, 928 / XV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the reference of the users of the Ovar municipality to the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga, 933 / XV / 2. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of the Ovar health centre, and 937 / XV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening health care in Ovar in response to the needs of populations. In the fifth point, without time allocated for discussion, there is motion for a resolution No 18 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of Malaysia, of the other part, made in Brussels on 14 December 2022. On the sixth point, also without due time, there is the debate on the budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2024. Finally, the seventh point concerns votes. All the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and see you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 36 minutes.]]
