ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u1	Very good day to all and to all. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and Mr. Officers of the authority, asking them to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. Let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha Secretary has the floor to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u2	Madam President, I welcome all of you. It is simply to realize that, the request of the Liberal Initiative, the Draft Resolution No 517 / XV / 1 was withdrawn. a ( IL ), which intended to regulate the Creche Felis programme. It's just, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Let us then enter the first item on the agenda, where Resolution Projects Nos 571 / XV / 1 will be discussed together. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of innovation and modernization of public management to a simpler, speedy and efficient state at the service of people, 153 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government speed up the digitalisation process of Public Administration, in a strategy for the sustainable development of communities, 191 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the annual implementation and presentation of a waste control report in the public sector and the final implementation of the Accounting Standardization System for Public Administration and 402 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to rationalise the consultative administration of the State. To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Fatima Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With their 50 years of democratic practice, the Socialist Party has always assumed the progressive vision of a society served by a close, responsible social state and for all people. It has always been with this vision that the PS governments have defined a path of modernization, for a public administration that continuously responds to the needs of people and businesses, a society and an economy in constant transformation. This comprehensive and strategic view of the challenges of modernizing public administration has been realized through a wide range of measures, many of which are included in the various editions of the Simplex programme, an indisputable brand of the governments of the Socialist Party. Measures such as the automatic renewal of the citizenship card, the automatic filling of the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons), the Citizen Birth, the Ready House, the Hour Company, the Digital Mobile Key have indisputably the brand of the Socialist Party. Simplex is even an international reference to be drawn up in a participatory manner, because it is transparent, because it accounts for the results achieved — which have never been less than 80 % of the measures planned — but also because it is demanding, taking advantage of the opportunities that digital offers, often pioneering in the European and global context, to change procedures of a complex administrative machine. It is precisely this complexity that justifies the investments provided for in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) for the digital transformation of the Public Administration, and it is essential to ensure that the more than 1800 superior leaders and more than 13 000 intermediate leaders of the Public Administration have the training and tools to enable them to exercise their responsibilities. This means that the dimension of management is a crucial factor for the success of the desired transformations in Public Administration, without prejudice to questions of a structural and organizational nature of the State, such as the process of decentralization. We are well aware that changes are not decreed, but we also know that standards define paths and stimulate behavior. That is why the path of modernization of the Public Administration has also benefited from clear legislative support. It was a Government of the Socialist Party that passed Decree-Law No 135 / 99 of 22 April, which, marking a time, systematized a set of principles and measures to which the Public Administration should obey in its action towards people. This emblematic diploma of administrative modernization has, over time, been changed successively to correspond to the changes necessary to a more digital public administration, and, in parallel and in a coordinated manner, other diplomas have emerged that integrate the perspective of innovation in public management. Conscious of the challenges, and with the critical capacity that the Socialist Party has always had, with its eyes placed on the future, it is time to look critically at the legislative acquis in force in the field of public services management. It is in this sense that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents this draft resolution, recommending that the Government: First, in order to strengthen the capacity for permanent transformation of the Public Administration, which assesses the adequacy of legislation to the challenges that it faces, adopting a diploma for administrative modernization which updates and brings together the transversal provisions in this field, including the promotion of innovation, the strengthening of transparency and the systematic participation of stakeholders, with the aim of preparing the public administration bodies to provide increasingly digital but human-faced, umnicanal, automated and proactive services; On the other hand, which codifies this legislative acquis also with a regulatory simplification approach, giving public administration leaders a simple and articulated set of management instruments that enable them to promote good public management, with efficiency and innovation, which may require different, collaborative and even experimental approaches to operate; Third, which continues and deepens the availability, in particular in the More Transparency portal, in open format, of the data contained in the public services management instruments, in particular its strategic and operational plans, the indicators of the social balance sheet, sustainability reports and other instruments relevant to the full provision of accounts to society; And finally, it takes advantage of the knowledge and experience resident in the Public Administration and shares them widely, approving a guide to good administrative practices, practices of the Public Administration for the Public Administration, inspiring good public management, which can be replicated. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the modernization of the Public Administration is not an issue that can be addressed either superficially or in a partial way, but with scope, technical competence, intellectual honesty and a lot of political seriousness. It was not by chance that the Socialist Party discussed it during its parliamentary days held last March. on these days, we had occasion to highlight the challenges of the present and future of the Public Administration: the challenges of simple, inclusive and fast care, integrating processes to exempt the citizen from knowing the Public Administration ; the challenges of data reuse, in security and with guarantees of protection of personal data, to simplify and streamline processes, in particular by exempting citizens to deliver data already in the possession of the Administration ; and also the challenges of citizen participation, fundamental not only to increase the effectiveness and quality of responses, but also as a factor of confidence in the performance of the State. It is from this strategic, constructive and positive perspective that our country needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u5	To present Resolution Projects Nos. 153 / XV / 1. a and 191 / XV / 1. Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the previous intervention, we started right away with something that could be a modernization. They are ‘50 years of democratic practice’, Mrs Deputy said about the Socialist Party. One of the things that certainly did not happen was a previous meeting with the Government, as in other circumstances, to prepare this document. We also have some doubts about this document, presented by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today. We do not understand whether it was presented by the Socialist Party of António Costa, or even by Pedro Nuno Santos, because, in reality, what the Socialist Party is doing is critical, and well, to the inability and incompetence of the government over the past few years in this issue of modernization and digitization. But now it's, now it's going to be, now we're going to have a citizen card that's going to solve all the problems of our fellow citizens. Given that no one has yet understood how they will make data circulation, at a time when they try to squeeze into the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), they still try to approve Community directives, with a sub-service to Brussels, where they say there will be data circulation of all those who are our citizens, but they do not know how well. « More transparency», says the Socialist Party – would be to laugh, not to be said by the Socialist Party. We could use it to ask them to publish, once and for all, the agreement that was made in relation to the covid vaccines,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that determined the purchase of nine vaccines for each citizen in Portugal, including children, and that we did not understand well how it was done. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] On digitisation and administrative modernization — Mr Porfirio is very excited about this issue, because we know that he is an accommodating defender on Twitter, so he certainly wants to talk about it, but he has to ask his bank to do so —... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... we realize perfectly that this subject comes to the dance 15 days after we discussed, in this House, the problem that exists, with a proposal that the Arrival presented to resolve the presenceal care, when the public administration sites do not solve the problem of our fellow citizens who want to make consultations, including disrespecting the elders and those who have difficulty in mobility. The elders are increasingly behind with this digitization and modernization. We believe in the principle of decentralization of competences, we believe in digitization and modernization, but we will never leave behind the elders of our country, that you have been so badly treated, not only on the issue of pensions, but also because they do not respect and cannot understand that there is a serious problem of digital hyliteracy, and they think that this will now be solved with digitization. But it would still be reason to say that—I know that some are unaware of the committees, there are many, and so the information ends up being scattered—they do not realize that, even in 13. the Commission was called ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) due to the problem that there is a lack of digitisation within the country, because there is not even a mobile Internet network. And do you know what you have failed with all the projects you have presented so far, particularly with the social rate of the Internet? You know, from what was the government's goal, only 0, 06 % was realized, because they did not understand that people could not have internet, television and telephone packages to adhere to the social rate of the Internet. Therefore, you continue to present measures in accordance with the Socialist Party — in this case it seems to me that it is the internal opposition of the Socialist Party to try to create a problem for Mr Campolargo State Secretary. As for the situation of digitisation, we could go further and, in fact, put it at the service of the Portuguese, we could definitely create something important at the level of digitisation and modernization—for example, something that would cross the data of the fregetes, thus allowing us not to pass 400 residence certificates to a street that has half a dozen buildings, or 10 000 residence certificates for a 400 m street, as is the case in Benformoso Street. The lack of digitisation and modernisation does not even allow the Freguesian boards to understand how many residence certificates were passed there, thus allowing there to be support and aid for illegal immigration. We could, even, now that we talk so much about housing, cross the municipal housing data and realize how many houses we have, how many houses the municipalities have. But this is also not digitized, it is not modernized either, and because there is a lack of data crossing between the authorities, it is allowed to have a house, through a NIF (tax identification number), in a municipality such as Loures and also to have, with the same NIF, a municipal housing house in Barreiro. You don't know what you want, you don't know the way you're going and you're taking Portugal more and more to the swamp. You completely forget the needs of video surveillance, you completely forget the need to put video surveillance, even with the police — video surveillance, see you, who would do so much good for, for example, if it had been earlier, we realized that, after all, the doors of a certain organ of sovereignty, in a certain country, even were opened by others, and after all, it seems that it is all a lie, because it was the left that sponsored the principle, almost by coup d'état. [[BE's laughs.]] On modernization and digitisation—with the laughter of the Left Block, which is laughing, but which, over the last few years, has done absolutely nothing for this and has great difficulty in solving the problems—we could look at justice, which, in this part, is in such a way that we realize yesterday that it was necessary to bring the former Minister of Health to talk about justice, such is the way it is in intensive care.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u7	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u8	Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that we clearly have a project that meets the need for transparency. We also welcome the Social Democratic Party for coming to play today, finally—it begins to be customary, in the last few days, after so much concern with the Arrival, we will talk at noon and you will say at noon and half exactly what we said—with a project to ask for what, many months ago, we have been talking, which is greater transparency in the Public Administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u9	You must conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u10	... audits and that everything is done in a just and dignified way for the State. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u11	To present the Resolution Project No 402 / XV / 1. a, from the PSD, has the floor Mr Francisco Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to welcome the youth present in the galleries in your House of Democracy. I will talk about our Resolution Project No. 402 / XV / 1. the, which recommends the rationalization of the consultative administration of the State. The existence of an advisory administration of the State seems to constitute a relatively peaceful matter between us, because of the role and importance recognized by it in strengthening and deepening the quality of our democratic regime. The administrative consulting bodies, which characterize this consultative administration of the State, constitute an important form of representation and participation of civil society organisations in the construction and definition of political decisions and legislative production, to the extent that they contribute to deepening, qualifying and raising our democratic system representative in the beginning of participatory democracies. It is not therefore to discuss the role and importance of this consultative administration of the State — unquestionable for us — but only to know of its effective, real, concrete contribution to the foundation, consultation and widespread adoption of good political and legislative decisions. [[PSD applause.]] It is in this plan that our draft resolution emerges, taking into account the reality of itself, and unsuspectingly, the Economic and Social Council ( CES ), which now notes the existence of more than 400 consultative bodies in the State, an increase of more than 79 % since 1996 — the date of the ESC's report precisely on this subject. Dear colleagues, the existence of consultative bodies that do not meet, therefore, does not work; the multiplication of bodies with identical or overlapping functions; the high number of existing advisory bodies, which make the potential stakeholders even forget their existence — when not even the government itself, as has recently been announced with the establishment of an observatory to observe the same thing as another existing one would have to observe, which perhaps did not — and the fact that many of these bodies meet in an intermittent and spaced out of time to question the consultation and participation of organised civil society aimed at the creation of this consultative administration, justify this draft resolution, within the meaning of the Government, to carry out a survey, updating and rationalization of these entities, in such a way that they can fulfil with full ownership the advisory and participation functions that are underlying their establishment. The President of the Economic and Social Council, with regard to this reality of the existence of more than 400 consultative bodies, stated at some point, and I quote: « In Portugal, contrary to the Law of Lavoisier (“in nature, nothing is created, nothing is lost, everything becomes” )... », in the advisory administration of the State, «... everything is created, but nothing becomes». [[PSD applause.]] May there then be courage for this task of transforming our consultative administration of the State, for the benefit of our state of representative democratic law and the quality of our participatory democracy, which is associated with it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the IL Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today there are four draft resolutions on the management of the Public Administration, but in this intervention I want to focus on the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, which alone is a huge contradiction. The Socialist Party, on the one hand, presents us with a country at the forefront of innovation and administrative modernization, the result of a digital revolution that, in recent years, no one has seen, but on the other hand, wants to implement improvements that, in such a vanguard scenario that has already presented us, should already be implemented. But, as in many other examples, 'now it is'! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about what it is for any citizen to deal with the Public Administration. To pay taxes, the services of the Tax Authority are the state of the art and serve as benchmark for other digital services, but to access, when most needed, a social benefit as a result of a medical joint, the same citizen expects years. This says a lot about the priorities of the Socialist Party: when it is to charge taxpayers' taxes, the State is a Tesla, but when these same taxpayers need help, the State is a 2CV.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u15	2CV! Ah, ah, ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u16	Again, we have here the priorities of the Socialist Party. But it is not only the people who the state fails, it is also the companies, who, entangled in bureaucratic processes, or by administrative inertia, see their stagnant projects and their committed funding. Only those who have never needed the Public Administration do not know this reality: telephone lines always interrupted, rows at the door of the service services to get a password or answers that vary from employee to employee. Mrs. Members, for the Liberal Initiative, the reform of public administration and its model of relations with citizens is a serious issue and a priority. Therefore, we have come to defend the simplification of processes, allowing better performance of the Public Administration, more efficient and speedy in responding to the needs of people and businesses, and the elimination of the bureaucracy that exists only to justify an administrative machine predatoring resources and generating customers, which separates private investment in the economy. These are the processes that contribute to the failures in health, education, the social state, urbanism, housing, the environment or energy, and these are the processes that impact applications to European funds. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the highest tax burden of ever has to result in some return to citizens. It is necessary to respond in good time to your requests. In addition to bricks such as digitization and administrative modernization, processes need to be streamlined. As I have already said, bureaucracy does not cease to exist just by processing through a screen rather than a paper. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, your draft resolution conceals the reality of the digital platforms so promised and that they are to implement, for example, the implementation of the Information System of the State Organization, reformulated and compiled. Without this, does the government even know how its Public Administration is organized and what its real needs are? And what, after all, is the time frame we can count on? I would say that this, yes, should be the priority. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, this draft resolution can serve your political number, but, in order to make real politics, to reform, to manage, information is needed. We do not even oppose what they recommend, but do not rely on the Liberal Initiative to blindly on what the Socialist Party has not yet done in the field of digital transition and administrative modernization. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u17	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u18	Mr. President, good morning, dear and dear colleagues. I would like to greet the PS for the marking of this debate and for the presentation of a draft resolution of which, namely, there is no way to curse too much. There is nothing wrong with saying about your draft resolution, but there is nothing very good about it either, it is "a thing in the form of such a thing". This is the problem: we are here in 2023 to discuss the modernization of the Public Administration, with which everyone agrees, and no one thinks that it should not be modernised, simplified, but we are not currently seeing a blow of wings, a decision, a proposal, a recommendation to the bolder Government, for the modernization of the Public Administration, which in the past government had a Ministry and now has a Secretary of State. The question is not so much hierarchy, the question is what resources you will do whatever you are suggesting, of which no one disagrees. Yesterday, we had the Minister of Finance here, until 10 o'clock at night, and we heard him say that he has no surplus next year. But if the government fails with the same deviation it failed this year, we will have a surplus, and it is not small. Therefore, what is needed is a political commitment on the part of the PS and the Government to ensure that this surplus exists in a budgetary framework that is already assumed and that it is clear and predictable to everyone, it means one thing: first, to support the most vulnerable; second, to increase public investment; and third, the State to strengthen its own machine and the Public Administration. We shall vote in favour of this draft resolution, but without these resources, little more than that will come out of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A set of draft resolutions around the Public Administration is under discussion, and I would like to start by referring to the project presented by the Socialist Party. In the face of the difficulties facing citizens today when they go to a public administration service — difficulties in marking a service, difficulties with long waiting lines, significant delays in solving the issues that citizens are putting — what we can say, firstly, is that the proposal that the PS brings today's debate goes alongside all these problems. There is also another very important issue. We believe that investment in public administration, investment in public services, is fundamental, is essential as a link to citizens, to whom public services of proximity and quality should be guaranteed. We believe that there should indeed be modernisation and innovation in public services provided to citizens, in their simplification and in their access, taking advantage of all the potentials that the digital plan can provide, without that it means replacing public services, because the present public services, yes, are fundamental to ensuring the same proximity. So this must be a complement. This project passes alongside everything that is essential. It is that, in order to provide public services of quality and proximity, to ensure the modernisation and even digitisation of these same public services, workers are required. There is no modernization in the Public Administration, no better public services provided, without workers, without valuing work, without valuing workers. This is a central issue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u21	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u22	...but the Socialist Party's initiative goes completely next to it. That is why we cannot stop focusing on these aspects, which are absolutely central. The honourable Member said that the public administration cannot be approached in a partial way. That's exactly what you did. That's exactly what you did! What citizens face is in fact difficult to deal with is a departure from public services and the degradation of public services that are provided, but that is why the Socialist Party does not make a single reference in its proposal and in its intervention. When we talk about valuing work and workers, we are, of course, talking about wages, we are talking about careers, we are talking about professions, we are talking about progress, all aspects that workers have been talking about and that the Socialist Party and the Government insist on not giving an answer. Madam President, I would also like to make two brief references to the other initiatives under discussion. I would like to point out, with regard to the initiative that arrives at the debate, that, when it comes to the waste of the Public Administration, we well know what waste it is talking about. [[CH protests.]] In fact, we know well, including, that they have come to propose the extinction of the Ministry of Health. When they point out that health is a clear example of waste in the public sector, we know what they stand for: ending the National Health Service and transferring everything to private groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u23	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u24	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u25	I will finish, Madam President. I think the intention of arriving is very clear:... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ...it's not solving any problems that citizens are facing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u26	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u27	... but only transfer public services to private groups, whose interests come here defends, and of which it also depends.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u29	The more time it's a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u30	For the PSD initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u31	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u32	... Madam President, I just wanted to make a very brief, telegraphically reference: although we can make an identification of the various consultative bodies that exist, the truth is that we believe that the path cannot be the one of the concentration of these advisory bodies in the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u33	You talk longer than the others? Oh, my God! Next time you make proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u34	This seems to us to be reducing, it seems to us that this is not the way, and it can even limit one of the aspects that Mr... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u35	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u36	...which is plurality, participation... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ...and listen to the various sectors regarding the most varied problems. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Bruno Nunese againstprotests by PCP Member João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u37	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The issue which the Socialist Party has chosen to bring today to debate is obviously important. The path of innovation, digitisation, modernization is absolutely inevitable, in the era in which we live. Obviously, we need to look at the question of the mechanisms necessary for these processes to take place as soon as necessary, but there is also the necessary look, which we need to have, for the whole territory, the differences of territory and the differences of access of various citizens to public services, to the Public Administration. I would therefore like to address two issues that seem absolutely central in any debate on the need for modernisation of the Public Administration. First of all, although we will maintain this path of modernization of some processes, we cannot leave aside the serious problem — still very serious! — access of too many people to the Public Administration. Finally, we know that we have an ageing population, in which levels of computer literacy, for example, are low, in many cases, which means that many citizens, unable to use computer resources, digital means, are excluded from these tools to solve any problems they have, whether with finance, social security, health, etc. On the other hand, often the exclusion of these people, particularly older people, also part of a territorial exclusion from access to communication infrastructures. In recent weeks we have talked a lot about the fact that, for example, there are still territories in our country where there is no access to the mobile network, where there is no access to the Internet, and therefore these people are twice excluded from access to a service that is, in fact, a right to access to the Public Administration. We cannot continue to have such an unequal country, both territorially and from the point of view of computer literacy, and therefore, when we look at this need for modernization, we must necessarily solve this starting problem first. The second issue which is not evidenced in any of the projects, and which, from our point of view, is also important, has to do with the workers. At a certain point, the Socialist Party, in its project, speaks of the necessary incentive that workers themselves should and may have for these processes to run well. But, Mrs Deputy, the problem is that public administration officials are faced with very serious problems. First, and contrary to what much right remains to be said, there is a lack of public servants in many services, and this means the degradation of these public services; we have the problem of SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), which continues to be an unfair mechanism for workers; we still do not have an increase in wages to deal with inflation. We cannot speak of the motivation of the workers without looking at their careers, their wages and their method of evaluation, which, in fact, are the subjects that have been on the table, particularly by the unions. Therefore, these two matters seem absolutely central to us. In order to solve any problem of modernization, we have to address, a priori, the issue of territorial access inequality and, on the other hand, the question of workers. We obviously wanted the Socialist Party, as a proposer of this debate, to have a word to say, because what we have so far verified, in particular with regard to workers, was an inability and a lack of political will to solve the problems facing everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u39	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Pimentel of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u40	Madam President, addressing Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to say that we are obviously not advocating the concentration of all consultative functions in the Economic and Social Council, which is, as you know, an important body, which allows dialogue, consultation and adoption of legislative policies and other policies that matter to this country. What we have said, and I repeat, is that it makes no sense that there are consultative bodies that do not work, that only adorn the landscape of this country, according to which there is supposed to be dialogue, and that they end up not working. For example, in my trade union experience in this area, we were confronted, recently, with the summons of an organ that we didn't even know existed yet and that we thought it had already been extinct. This doesn't make sense. The function of the consultative bodies of the State — which he says of the State — also of the Public Administrations of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, which are also there — is first of all to allow the participation of citizens and, in this case, of the organisations and entities in these bodies. I believe that this is important, that there is a general consensus and that we do not disagree on this matter. It is now necessary for these bodies to fulfil what should be their role in informing, preparing and underpinning this country's political and legislative measures. If this participation helps to have legal diplomas, well-built and well-founded political terms, it wins society and we all win. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u41	It is in this sense that we are doing this because, and it will agree with me, there are 408 entities—I am not saying to extinguish the 408 entities—it is necessary to review this forest, on behalf of the interested parties themselves, that they want to participate, or that they do not know where they are participating or when they will participate. Therefore, it is before this reality that an appeal is made to the Government that, since it forgets other aspects of the Public Administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u42	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u43	... at least make a reform, rationalization, a return to these bodies, and those that are necessary for the specific areas that remain — do not have the slightest doubt! - But we're working. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u44	We have therefore concluded this debate. To conclude, Mrs Fátima Fonseca of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To have a public administration serving our country is not possible with sentences made, much less reducing the people who work in it. I believe that this statement is absolutely consensual. Of course, we always have a lot to improve, it would be absurd to refuse this evidence—we have, in Portugal, and have all countries, this is not a private matter in our country—but we have, yes, the comfort and certainty that we are aligned not only with the challenges of the digital decade of Europe, but also with the challenges that the whole world faces. That is precisely why we have investments to make and are in progress, particularly with the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in the Digital Transition dimension, including the training of citizens for digital, the training of workers and public administration workers, the expansion of the physical service network, because, yes, a Public Administration, being digital, always having a human face and reaching all people is a central concern, with a provision of EUR 22 million in the PRR, for more a significant set of physical care sites. Now, we can't pretend that we haven't had any results, because we have results and we have had the ability to achieve them. If we had not, we would not have integrated, in our daily lives, many of the services that you and the Members have served. Members use and we would also not have the ability to have instruments — often pioneers, in the European and world context — such as the Digital Mobile Key, which places us on the front line to work on the issue of digital identity, which is under discussion in Europe, or even numerous international distinctions in digital services, because, yes, we are at the forefront. This does not mean, I say again, that there is no matter to do. Yes, there is a need—and that is why this draft resolution is presented by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group—to be even more effective in the governance of modernization. Therefore, we know that we cannot lose our focus and that we should focus on what really has transformative potential, which is to be effective in the governance of administrative modernization. We believe that we need to do more than look at the consultative structure of the architecture of the State organization, rather than recommend to the Government to disseminate the work of the structures of the Public Administration, which is already available in the communication instruments that they provide, rather than to promote strategies over strategies that are public, are already happening. What is a priority, yes, in our view, is to strengthen the conditions for the organizational leadership of the public sector, which are increasingly called upon to resolve challenges in an innovative, very challenging way, they are able to do so always, with overall vision, with resources, necessarily, but with the ability to achieve objectives that are clear and always with the involvement of workers and employees of the Public Administration. In addition, he recalled that the Governments of the Socialist Party had the capacity to define a set of mechanisms to encourage the proper management of public administration workers, and innovative projects have already been assigned in the management of people precisely to public administration entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u46	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u47	I shall finish, Madam President, with your indulgence, by telling the ladies and gentlemen. Members that the responsibility with which the institutions carry out their duties is also the concern not only of a mature party but of mature democracies. Use words such as « chaos », « paralysis» or other similar definitions, which are often used in this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u48	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u49	... never serves the purpose of a constructive debate and, of course, does not serve the public interest. It is in this degree of responsibility that the PS is positioned, and it is with this posture that will continue to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u50	We turn to item 2 of our agenda, with the general debate on the Bill No 7 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — The guarantee of fair treatment for foreign citizens in Portugal without a valid travel permit. For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Carlos, a Lusodescendant citizen, decided to return with his wife, Mary, to the land of his parents, the island of Madeira. Carlos and Venezuelan citizen Mary made one of the biggest decisions of their lives when they decided to go live for the "Atlantic pearl". Getting out of the place where we were born and where we have our life is never an easy decision. Because she was married to a Portuguese citizen, Mary had the right to obtain a residence permit to remain in national territory—a residence permit which, as we know, in a first phase is temporary— then faced with numerous difficulties in renewing her passport in Venezuela in a timely manner. Given the known and existing difficulties, Mary is unable to renew her passport in a timely manner, so that she can renew her residence permit in Portugal and is in an irregular situation. Mary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is irregular not only because it does not have a valid identification document but also because it cannot renew its residence permit in Portugal. Carlos and Mary have two children born in Venezuela, Angel and Nancy, who, because they are children and children of a Portuguese, are also entitled to a residence permit in our country. Angel and Nancy are also irregular in Portugal: they cannot only renew their passport in good time, as they cannot obtain Portuguese nationality, because they cannot access the documents necessary for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, because they are irregular, Mary, Angel and Nancy have great difficulties in accessing the national health system, because they live with expired documents. This is one of many life stories, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, which are happening in our country and which the Regional Parliament of Madeira wants to resolve. We are talking about an initiative which was adopted unanimously in Madeira and which aims to solve this specific problem of the expiry of documents, a problem, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, according to the regional Parliament, reach about 18 % of Venezuelans living outside their country, some in Madeira. With this initiative, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ) intends that, exceptionally and in cases of proven impossibility in obtaining an identification document, documents should be considered valid, so that such citizens may have more time to renew their documentation and, in the case of minors, obtain Portuguese nationality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we remember that the exceptional extension of the validity of documents is not uncommon in our country. This is an example of the extension granted to Ukrainian citizens under the temporary protection regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, without prejudice to possible improvements in the text in the field of expertise, we believe that the aim of this initiative is very worthwhile and therefore we call for its viability. This is an initiative that is very important to Madeira and our immigrants. So let us make an appeal and make a challenge, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: we appeal to all Members and to all Members. Members who vote in favour of this initiative; we challenge the parties with parliamentary representation in the region, especially the Socialist Party, to keep the same sense of vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is political will and if we are all on the same side, as we have been in the Madeira Parliament, we will certainly be able to resolve this problem further. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative, this proposal for a law coming from ALRAM, effectively expresses concern about the difficulties in obtaining and renewing documents by foreign citizens, as a result of any economic, political, institutional and humanitarian crises that their countries of origin may undergo, which may ultimately dictate the return of some people to those countries of origin. I would like to point out from now on that, in our legal order, there is already a legal mechanism in place to solve this issue of foreign citizens, so that they are not prevented from accessing a passport and to be able to request the renewal of their residence permit and/or the granting of permanent residence authorisation, in particular by the legal regime for issuing passports to foreigners. Decree-Law No 83 / 2000 of 11 May 2000 — the diploma governing the legal system for the issue of passports, in its current wording, provides in Article 36. the possibility of, under certain circumstances, the Minister of Internal Administration to grant passports to foreigners, and its issue is for the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) on national territory. However, they are deemed to be authorised to reside in Portuguese territory for foreign citizens to whom the administrative authority has granted the right to reside in Portuguese territory, the right to do so by means of a document — title of residence — issued in accordance with the rules and uniform model in force in the European Union to the third-country national with a residence permit. This legislation refers to ‘legal resident’ the foreign citizen authorised with residence permit in Portugal of a validity equal to or greater than one year, despite the right of residence does not expire before six months have elapsed on the expiry date of the licence to be renewed, as referred to in Article 63 ( 14 ). the Regulation Decree No 84/2007 of 5 November 2007 in the current wording. It is also the opinion of the High Commissioner for Migration that the SEF, when submitting applications for the renewal of the temporary residence permit or applications for the granting of permanent residence authorisation, is, in most cases, receiving applications, even if foreign citizens do not present valid passports, justifying and documenting the reasons for the impossibility of their submission. There are indeed several legal questions and doubts in various articles of this proposal, as well as in its formulation. These questions and some inaccuracies have even been raised in the Regional Assembly itself in the discussion of this proposal. We must also mention another very important point. The Regulation of the Portuguese Nationality provides in Article 26 thereof. that, in special cases, the Minister of Justice may waive, the person concerned's reasoned request, the submission of any document to instruct the request for naturalisation, provided there is no doubt as to the verification of the requirements which that document was intended to prove. It is thus understood that this provision already exists, which allows the applicant to request nationality by naturalisation, in accordance with Article 6. that of the Law of Nationality, provided that the foundation and there is no doubt about the verification of the requirements that this document was intended to prove, may be waived by the Minister of Justice for the submission of any document necessary for the instruction of the application. Finally, what has been mentioned as regards the issue of passports for foreigners is also valid as regards the submission of applications for Portuguese nationality, so the proposed addition does not seem to us to be an essential amendment. In conclusion, we would like to stress that in the context of the epidemiological situation since 2020, the Government has implemented measures with a view to ensuring a transdisciplinary approach, defining the scope of foreign citizens whose stay in national territory is considered to be regular, currently covering foreign citizens who have pending proceedings in the SEF on 31 December 2021, as well as the adequacy of documents relating to the stay in the national territory of foreign citizens expiring until 30 June 2022, as established by Decree-Law No 23 -A / 2022 of 18 February. It therefore seems clear to us that there are already mechanisms provided for in the law that safeguard and protect foreign citizens from this kind of situation. In other words, the problems that may exist are not due to omission or legislative failure, but eventually to unidentified situations and possible delays, which we recognize should be improved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u54	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address directly to PSD Member Sara Madruga from Costa, who has appealed to the parties to approve this proposal. on the side of the Liberal Initiative, I reply that it has our favourable vote, for many of the reasons mentioned here and for some which I will also address. But I would ask you — and I would now appeal — to your colleagues in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira who are very eager to bring to this House the bill of law that allows the Madeirans to vote in mobility and anticipation in the Madeira regional elections and that they stop embarrassing this issue, because it is we who have launched this issue. [[Applause from the IL.]] The Portuguese Communist Party presented this proposal at the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and it is time to give the Madeirans this possibility, because they are the only Portuguese who do not have this possibility in all the electoral acts we have in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]] So let us talk about the bill we are discussing. Portugal — the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in particular — already welcomes, for several years, Luso-descendants and Venezuelans who are fleeing the socialist regime that began with Hugo Chávez and is now maintained by Nicolás Maduro. This regime practices political persecution, constantly violates human rights and its policies have had catastrophic social and economic results. What we are debating is a direct cause and a consequence of the practical application of the policies of the chavista regime, once so revered by so many parties of this House and still defended by some. This plenary debate also discusses how to solve the problems caused by the repetition of history, which shows us that people who can escape collective and autocratic regimes, in search of countries where political freedom, social freedom and economic freedom still prevail. The size of the collapse of Venezuelan institutions is such that, in addition to the lack of access to the most basic goods, from food to medicine, Venezuelan citizens are prevented from renewing or obtaining identification documents and travel titles, in which it is a true portrait of the failure of socialism. In Venezuela, even the most basic function of the State, namely who their citizens are and grant them valid nationality, failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u56	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u57	Without these valid documents, those who escape poverty and oppression are limited in their freedom of movement and fixation. Without these valid documents, there is a legal barrier and the Portuguese State, under current legislation, cannot process applications for nationality or residence authorization from those seeking us as a refuge, in whom it is a real problem of human rights, which matters now to correct, or rather to remedy. People fleeing Venezuela and looking for Portugal hope to find a country that welcomes them and has a special sensitivity to their difficulties. We are a long time ago a country of migratory flows. We have always been able to receive those who are looking for Portugal to live in security and with opportunities, especially those who run from failed states. We always wanted to be able to receive anyone who wished to return, or their descendants. The Liberal Initiative has always shown solidarity with the Venezuelan community and with the suffering caused by the socialist policies of the chavista regime and, this time, it will not be different, even though there are still, as mentioned in the initial intervention of this debate, small legal doubts that must be clarified in the field of specialty. This is the story to be repeated: socialism—theoretical and practical—condemns and oppresses its people forever, and would not be different this time. Yesterday, and today, we will remain on the right side of history: on the side of freedom, on the side of human rights. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u58	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there is a line that separates freedom from authoritarianism, democracy from repressive regimes. This line is the same as wherever the repressive and authoritarian regimes come. Therefore, I think it is wrong to use this line of separation between democracy and authoritarian regimes for political deforestation, or for games that are more internal politics, or taboos, or ideological obsessions. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] To be against authority is to be against authority and authoritarianism, always. Therefore, in this case, who preserves coherence is who, on the subject of a proposal like this, says that although the case of Venezuela... [[IL protests.]] The Liberal Initiative is playing its part today: when someone is saying something that seems to be common sense, the Liberal Initiative is uncomfortable, I don't know why! [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u60	Making complaints!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u61	I still have one minute and I'd like to use it. I am glad that it is the case of Venezuela that we know of one thing: the fact that a country makes life difficult for citizens looking for Portugal as a refuge, because in the country of origin it is difficult to arrange the documents, it is always bad and it has always been bad. It is not a preservation of our sovereignty, on the contrary, it is a transfer of our sovereignty to an authoritarian regime that we are dependent on what the authoritarian regime decides, whether it is Venezuelan, Afghan or any other. So, of course, we need to make life easier for refugees, immigrants and citizens, luxophones, in fact, like Venezuelans in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u62	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u63	For the same reason, we must put an end to the rule of reciprocity in the Constitution, which means that we must wait for the authoritarian regime to give us the right to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u64	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u65	I also want to see Venezuelan citizens voting in Madeira and throughout the Portuguese Republic. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u66	You need attention! Ask for attention at home!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u67	For an intervention, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law under discussion will allow foreign citizens who demonstrate the impossibility, or the great difficulty, to obtain a valid travel permit which will be released for the purpose of renewal, temporary residence permit and permanent residence grant. It is clear from both the reading of the recitals of this proposal and a minimum knowledge of the reality of Madeira, that the Regional Assembly wants, essentially, with this amendment, to solve pressing problems of Venezuelans there refugees. In fact, quoting the recitals of the proposed law under consideration, according to data from the Foreign and Border Service, the number of Venezuelans in the Luso territory has tripled since 2015 and Madeira is the Portuguese territory that most Venezuelans receive. Citing United Nations data of 21 May 2019, 3 million people have emigrated from Venezuela since 2015 — hence between 2015 and 2019 — because of the severe economic and political crisis the country is experiencing. What is the reason for this serious economic crisis? According to recent data from the International Organization for Migration, the United Nations Agency for Migration has already abandoned Venezuela 6, 1 million refugees, about 20 % of the population. Repeat: 20%! Seventeen countries, throughout Latin America and the Caribbean, are home to about 80% of Venezuelans, over 5 million. It is the biggest external displacement crisis in Latin America's recent history. Thousands of Venezuelans crossed several countries in South America on foot. Many flee without knowing their final destiny. Escape by land, sea and air, as the United Nations report expressly emphasizes. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is visibly more successful among the various generations of students and admirers of Prof. Boaventura Sousa Santos than among those who support it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As is evident, the arrival cannot be indifferent to this tragedy, all the more knowing that many of these victims are luso-descendants and that they are precisely those who end up landing in Portugal, with particular incidence in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u70	Thus, the arrival will not oppose this proposal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u71	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is indissociable from a very particular social context. On the islands of Madeira and Porto Santo, it is very expressive the community of Lusodescendants with connection to the Portuguese diaspora in Venezuela. Even yesterday, we had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Ambassador in Caracas about this connection. This legislative initiative is largely due to the need for concrete responses to problems posed by the high influx of Venezuelan citizens who, since 2015, have sought the Autonomous Region of Madeira to reside but who remain in irregular national territory, particularly due to the lack or expiry of documents. This legislative initiative, which amends the law of foreigners and the Law of Nationality, aims to contribute to the resolution of a problem of relevance in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, since this is the parcel of Portuguese territory that most embraces Venezuelan citizens. According to data from the SEF, the number of Venezuelans in our country tripled, underlining the problem of the irregular situation of many citizens due to the lack or expiry of documents. Given the relevance and historical, social and cultural ties with the Luso-venezuelan community, it is important to find a solution for these socially penalizing citizens, who are generating social exclusion and which, from a legal point of view, is marked by irregularity. The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira proposes, within its competences, the realisation of an extraordinary regime for the regularisation of foreign citizens who demonstrate the impossibility or great difficulty in obtaining a valid travel permit, necessary for the renewal of the temporary residence permit or the granting of permanent residence. What we want to highlight from this project is the importance of the objectives and their kindness, but we do not fail to mention that, unlike the statutory assumptions, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in the framework of the proposed law we are discussing, did not send any opinion or contribution to the Assembly of the Republic. But what we want to stress is the fact that this initiative translates the political will to solve realities, to which we cannot show indifference, so as to give new answers to the phenomenon of migration and the consequent decision to remain and eventually achieve Portuguese nationality. These changes are important to boost the rates of naturalization of migrants, the result of integration and the feeling of belonging. With this initiative, a legal and political treatment of citizenship rights is intended for those who have already entered the country's life. Since there may be some aspects to need possible improvements and improvements, we cannot fail to appreciate how much this initiative, to be approved, can contribute to a multidimensional perspective of the opportunities for social and political participation of immigrants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u73	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira for bringing the debate to such an important issue. It is motivated by the fluency in number, which is quite relevant, from Venezuelans and Venezuelans to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but has as a consequence a change to the law, which is not left by a specific origin, but by a concern that is fair and that should already be recognized in law. That is why we are going to follow this initiative. What is this concern? It is that someone who has come from another country, who, for repressive and authoritarian reasons, cannot prove his journey and his travel, but who, by taking away this, has all rights and all predictability in order to be able to request access to Portuguese citizenship, can do so. From that point of view, we have followed — because we have already proposed similar matters in the past — this reflection, this proposal and this objective. We hope that the proposal will pass and that it will not be the obstacle of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Given the broad consensus that we seem to be able to obtain in this House, we are now making an appeal to the Socialist Party, which seems to be the only one who still has doubts on this matter. We do not want to believe that the Socialist Party will return its back to Venezuelan immigrants, as it has recently done in this House. This situation is shameful. The Socialist Party continues to vote in a manner in Madeira and, when it passes to Ponta de São Lourenço, changes its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u77	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u78	This is quite serious, because this matter, really, is a matter where there should be no parties, because the situation we are talking about and which urgently resolves is a dramatic situation. In fact, if the Government of the Republic wanted to solve this situation, as Mrs Marta Freitas pointed out, it could have done. The truth is that he did not do so and has, even in his governance, a State Secretary who should have the obligation to know this reality and who should have the political obligation and will to resolve it. But he didn't solve it. It is because I have not solved it that this Madeira initiative makes all the sense. We hope, Madam Member, that the Socialist Party will approve this initiative and not break the consensus that has been generated in the national Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u79	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u80	Mrs. Marta Freitas, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u81	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u82	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u83	Mr President, I would like to ask that it be distributed—because it seems that some parties have not understood—the legislation I have referred to, to see and review the redundancy of this proposal for a legislative initiative. I also ask to distribute the report of the discussion of this initiative in ALRAM, to verify how errors and problems were raised and how the PSD did not wish to accept these corrections and suggestions from the other banks, which raised this concern as to what the conditioning of the approval of this initiative might be in the Assembly of the Republic here. I will still ask that a letter be distributed which was written by the Socialist Party to the Venezuelan Embassy in Portugal and which was signed by the party seats. I would ask that this letter be distributed, in which we made the Ambassador of Venezuela aware of this problem of access to documentation, as well as the letter we received from Mr Ambassador, because it seems that the benches have already forgotten what has been done, at the time of these concerns being raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u84	Mrs Deputy, your request is registered. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at a time when in Europe we see countries like Italy, with the intention of making it difficult to obtain temporary permission for immigrants entering the country, or when we look at this House and we see that, recently, a debate has been scheduled that mixes immigration policy with security, it is important to remember what immigration policy we want in our country and the role Portugal should have in welcoming migrants. This role, in the view of the NAP, necessarily involves the creation of procedures that facilitate the obtaining of documents that allow for the stay in national territory and its regularization. We know that in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, this issue is of great importance given the flow of Venezuelan citizens since 2015, estimated until many are in an irregular situation. Since the renewal of documents makes it difficult for the present situation in Venezuela to understand the NAP, we cannot be allowing these people to be forced to return. in this sense, this proposal, which seeks that foreigners who remain in Portuguese territory and who see difficulty in their stay, due to the impossibility of obtaining a valid travel title, a document necessary for the renewal of temporary or permanent residence permit, reminds us of this same role that Portugal must have. That is why the NAP will follow this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u86	For a short speech, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to tell Mrs Marta Freitas that she can well bring together all the legislation she wants, because this Madeira initiative still makes all the sense. [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] It is regrettable that the Socialist Party is no longer ashamed to use all arguments—but even all arguments! — to lead an initiative which is quite important for Venezuela. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let it be noted that the Madeirans and Venezuelans are watching more of this disgrace of the Socialist Party, which has no stake in coming to Parliament and doing this little shame that Mrs Marta Freitas has done. [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u88	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u89	The Madeira Parliament is unanimous. This initiative, if the Socialist Party approves it, makes all the sense and it is unfortunate that the Socialist Party continues to turn its back on Venezuelans. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u90	We have concluded the second item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 65 / XV / 1. a ( ABIC - Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ) — At the end of the admission rates to doctoral evidence, as well as in the discussion, in general, of Bill No 667 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Updates of scientific research scholarships and their components, resets cut subsidies and eliminates doctoral rates, 685 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the end of the collection of admission fees and emoluments for the provision of doctoral evidence, and 689 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Basics of Higher Education Financing Act, Law No. 37 / 2003 of 22 August and also in the discussion of Resolution Projects No. 476 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of admission rates to academic evidence, 549 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of fees and emoluments in public higher education institutions for admission to academic evidence of doctorate, and 581 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government a set of assumptions to be considered in the reform of higher education financing. To submit Bill No. 667 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Manuel Loff of the PCP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners of this petition, launched by the Association of Scientific Research Fellowships. The CFP has always opposed itself, in the context of this petition, not only to the propines in all cycles of higher education, but also to the rates and emoluments that universities — which, for the past 25 years, have been underfunded by adopting an unacceptable logic of private institutions — have imposed on their students scandalously. The worst of all is the submission rate of doctoral thesis, which this petition, exactly like our project, proposes to eliminate at once. We have come here to do so - days after the current Minister has publicly committed herself, until July this year, in the framework of the programme contracts with higher education institutions, to eliminate this rate. Nothing new, though. Since 2015 former Minister Manuel Heitor promised it. He left the science, technology and higher education folder, and nothing. We will be here to force Minister Elvira Fortunato to fulfill this last promise. Scientific research scholarships have been losing purchasing power since 2002 at a cumulative loss ranging from 19 % to 28 %, depending on the type of grant. This means that, on average, every five months, these researchers lose one month's salary. On the other hand, when they receive a scholarship for only 12 months instead of 14 months, they lose 14 % of the salary they would take if they were entitled to a contract of employment, as the CFP has always defended. As a result of this situation, the Ministry and the Foundation for Science and Technology ( FCT ) decided at the beginning of February to update the research grants by €55, considering the absolute increase in the national minimum wage. As in so many other situations created by this government's policy, this update has been considerably below the inflation of 2022 and recent increases in peer prices. Doctoral scholarships and research grants for teachers had an update of 3 % below inflation, after-doctoral scholarships of 4, 5 % and research grants of 1, 5 %. Let us remember that researchers hired with scientific initiation grants of €541, €12 per month — i.e. €219 below the national minimum wage — are scientific workers at the initial stage of training, but subject to the exclusivity regime, and therefore cannot supplement these wages with the income of other jobs. They are easy to imagine the repercussions on their quality of life and on the obvious difficulty in coping with rising prices to which this economic policy is subject. In order to aggravate all this situation, over the past few years, multiple support has been cut: aid for the payment of propines abroad; travel subsidies and participation in conferences; reduction of stay time abroad for mixed and national exchanges. The lack of these support limits decisively one of the central dimensions of the researcher's activity: the dissemination of scientific production and internationalization, so valued in all contests. They have virtually no alternative in their pockets because they operate very few national organisations that attribute these support outside the care of this Ministry. The FCT's policy to exclude all those who do not have a research contract — for example, all the scholarships — from the status of the investigator included in the research units is impossible for them to make use of the funds that research units can use for this purpose. Restoring these supports is nothing more than restoring a right that has been removed from the pockets. Congresses for the presentation of work, as well as research stays abroad, are constituent elements of the researcher's professional life and therefore should be duly supported. With this bill, the CFP proposes, applying the most basic of the rules of justice, which rests the value of the scholarships, updating them, first and foremost, in the exact proportion of the inflation of 2022. We propose, secondly, that we be able to compensate for the loss of purchasing power resulting from the increase in prices which in 2023 continues to crush the return on the stock exchanges, adding to these increases an extraordinary increase of 5 % in the stock exchanges of more than EUR 1000 and 10 % in less than that value. The future of a national scientific and technological system worthy of that name always depends on the hiring for the careers of researcher, teacher or superior technician, the progressive integration of all workers subject to the scholarship and the end of the Statute of the Research Fellowship. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u92	To present Bill No. 685 / XV / 1. a ( CH), Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Party welcomes the Association of Scientific Research Fellowships, petitioners who claim the end of admission fees to doctoral evidence. The bill we present responds to this claim. Universities were created to solve the problems of societies. That, unfortunately, is not happening. If we talk about the financial problems of the country, higher education is part of the problem today and not part of the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u95	If the issue is the significant breakdown of income and unemployment, not only do university teachers and researchers complain, but also the fellows and graduates, some of whom end up unemployed. If the country is armed with a demographic deficit, higher education is in an unbridled search for foreign students, to ensure the hours of their teachers, without, however, anticipating that these foreign students can saturate the national labour market of young Portuguese graduates, who will therefore have to continue to emigrate. If there is a crisis in housing, universities are making it worse with the student housing crisis. Today, universities are unable to anticipate and solve problems, and they have become the worst of social parasitism models. And it is not the weakest link, the student, who has to endure decades of irresponsibility from governments and those who run universities, who have failed to protect institutional autonomy and intellectual freedom. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The coming party makes it clear that it does not answer the need for tips in higher education, but this does not legitimize that fees and emoluments to students are surmounted. The left, which has always protected incompetent governments that kidnap taxpayers through hidden taxes, taxes and more taxes, has no legitimacy to condemn universities that are doing exactly the same to their students.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u96	All right! [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u97	Promiscuity between institutions is such that we no longer know whether governments copy the vices of universities or whether universities have become clones of bad governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u98	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u99	Some lead Portugal to a Greek tragedy. He tells the mythology that Edipus killed his father and married his mother, but he did everything to avoid such misfortune. Faced with the power of fate, King Edipus blinded himself for being unable to see the obvious for a lifetime. He took his actions and endured the pain without protests. Edipus submitted himself to the moral primacy of self-responsibility. The same god Apollos who had condemned Oedipus to birth, at the end of his life, became his protector for eternity. More than two millennia ago, Freud labeled the attitude symbolized in King Edipus of "the principle of reality": to endure pain and to postpone the reward.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u100	But Freud is 100 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u101	It was the same force of fate that gave Portugal, in the last half century, to a political, academic, intellectual, artistic and journalistic elite of sole leftist thought. This elite changed the principle of reality by industrial doses of the most primitive alienation and continues to be unable to see the heavy invoice, which is the widespread failure of the institutions: from universities, health, education, justice, security, defence, finance and agriculture, from TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport) to SEF. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The family doesn't even escape! The ideological hatred of the difference between society and its institutions has costs. The owners of the regime have killed the autonomy and dignity of the institutions for not learning, nor for letting them learn, that the values and principles of society must be the opposite of the values and principles of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u102	‘The owners of the regime’!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u103	If freedom, democracy and activism are on the one hand, on the other, there must be hierarchy, authority and order. This is the commitment that has created the essence of what we call 'civilism'. That is why the left-wing culture has always been, and will always be, the enemy of civicism.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u105	Over 2,000 years ago, the Greek tragedy did not destroy societies. On the contrary, he taught people to respect the complexity of the human condition and its traditional institutions. Today, let's go back to the barbarian level!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u106	Speak for yourself, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u107	Portugal has to get rid of this cultural tragedy that is killing all institutions, starting with universities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u108	To submit Bill No. 689 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u109	Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: 500 €, 50 €, 350 €, 0 €, 525 €, 750 €. These are the arbitrary values that are set for admission of doctoral evidence in public universities in our country. The delivery rate of theses and dissertations is an unjustified rate. The delivery of theses and dissertations is, as a rule, an indispensable element for the completion of the masters and the doctorates. Therefore, the imposition of an extra tip for the delivery of the final work is not understood. This rate, in all its absurdity, is the acute symptom of a structural problem of higher education and science in Portugal. I welcome the Association of Scientific Research Fellowships for bringing this matter to Parliament and for clearly defining the basis of this problem. I quote the petitioners and the petitioners: « Higher education institutions create this type of fees as another alternative source of funding to deal with the underfinancing in which they live, a problem that can only be truly resolved through the agreement between higher education institutions and the government for the increase of structural funding that ends this financial strangulation through the State budget. Do not keep on seeking. ” In the understanding of the Left Block, what we are discussing now is not just a fee: it is a financing model and a country perspective. Public funding for higher education is a development factor of the country and social justice. The democratization of access to the highest levels of education is a constitutional obligation of the State. In almost five decades of democracy, there were many advances, but there were also setbacks and obstacles in the democratization of higher education. The emergence of propines in the 90s of the last century was one of these setbacks. 20 years of propine increases followed. Decades of student struggle against this barrier to the right to education followed. The payment of the tips still takes a very large portion of the family income and consumes considerable part of the social stock exchanges. There are high school students who don't even compete for higher education, because they know that their families don't have the means to bear those costs. Among those entering higher education, there are those who at all times confront themselves with the possibility of having to give up because of economic insufficiency, a problem that arises when higher education institutions create and increase rates and emoluments, in order to compensate for the chronic underfinancing of the State budget. The long struggle of the student movement and the commitment of the Left Block and other political forces allowed the reduction of propines, from €1068 to €856, in the academic year 2019 - 2020, and then to €697, in the academic year 2020 - 2021. With this, the dogma fell that the propines were there to stay and always increase. However, the Government of the Socialist Party has not only abandoned this reduction path, as it has commissioned a study to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) which points to a backwardness in this area, suggesting the creation of propines by income scales. It's unacceptable. Propines and other abusive rates are faked by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u111	It's time to go back to the end of the tips. It is today an opinion shared by people from various political quadrants that the tips are a problem to be overcome. We can quote the President of the Republic, for whom the progressive abolition of the tips means taking a step to complete the drama which is the very high number of students who finish high school and have no money for higher education. The economic condition cannot be a barrier to access to education. We propose a new model for funding higher education and science based on the principle of social justice, understood that the State should ensure levels of funding of public higher education that promote its quality and progressive freeness. The Left Block proposes the end of the tips in the licensees as early as September 2024. Graduates, professional higher technical courses and integrated masters should no longer have propines. In the new model proposed by the Block Bill, public funding compensates universities and politicians for this loss of revenue, prohibits abusive fees and establishes a maximum ceiling for the tips of masters and doctors. [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u112	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u113	I will finish, Mr. President. This is the way to a more just and qualified country. Again, it is time to repeat: the tip hurts, and it does not only hurt students; the tip hurts the country. [[Congrats from BE and the PS MP Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u114	To present the drafts of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u115	Mr President, Mr Caros and Mr Caras Colleagues: when you do a master's degree or a doctor's degree, you learn three things, two of which are essential and one third that would be indispensable. Much is learned on the subject of master’s or doctoral thesis. Moreover, autonomy is learned, the ability to conduct an investigation by itself, which is what makes teachers and doctors, then important agents, whether in academic life, whether in economic life or in the social life of the country: the ability to deliver a project to them and know that they end it, after years and years of responsibilities, often solitary. The third thing that is learned and that would be indispensable is to suffer with financial distress, with anxiety about the future, their employment and what to do next. Performing a master's or doctoral thesis is a kind of marathon mix with a race of obstacles. And when it comes to the end, those who survive this admonition tell them: "If you want the medal, now you have to pay a fee or a fee. » This is especially unfair. The admission rates to academic evidence in our country should be abolished, whose price variability, as already mentioned today, shows that they are completely arbitrary. But there's worse. Then there is the anguish and uncertainty of those who, for example, are in the competitions to stimulate scientific employment, which now do not know, because the deadlines for contracts have been extended, will arrive at the end of the year with the future for their scientific careers. What is the name of this —'stimulating competition for scientific employment' — in which the stimulus is already given, because people have the incentive to make scientific careers, institutions seem to feel no incentive to give jobs and it is not necessary to read as much Freud, as Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, to know that encouragement without realisation will give enormous frustration and discouragement on the part of our researchers and scientists. Everything, in fact, is about to be reviewed in the model of higher education funding. There is no problem in the country that does not go through a higher education that gives us everything you have given and even more with the potential that the country has. But in order to do so, it is necessary to revise its financing model, and to obtain part of the taxes for the strategic fund for higher education which the Free Book proposes. A support fund is needed for the student of higher education and the State must ensure operating costs. There are people who, at last, consider that the tips should be abolished. The first time I took part in a debate on this subject was with the then Professor of Law, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, he changed his opinion on this subject, but I did not. It is now necessary not only to say that it is necessary to abolish the tips, but to explain how, but the debate on the new model of funding in higher education, unfortunately, the government is doing so far away from this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u116	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u117	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: First of all, I should like to begin by greeting the petitioners who bring us to the debate on this important issue. Today, in addition to discussing higher education, we also discuss the value this Parliament wants to attach to it. Currently, as we know, a student, to enter higher education, has to pay fees, tips and emoluments throughout his course. This reality is present in all degrees of teaching, from undergraduate to doctoral, and are not uncommon times when a student has to abdicate from his dream of taking a higher course or pursuing a master's degree or doctorate, because he has no possession to do so. The proposal that the NAP brings is quite simple, but it is of immense importance. In our proposal, we will meet the appeals made by the petitioners and put an end to the collection of fees and emoluments for admission to academic evidence of doctorate. Once again, we agree with the petitioners, the existence of these fees and emoluments makes no sense. Institutions say that these values exist to bear the administrative costs associated with doctoral tests. As has already been mentioned, it is essential to have a debate around a model of higher education, which does not keep young people from what has to be an opportunity and a meaning of life. The range of values is almost as wide as the institutions that practice them. In fact, we are talking about values that range between €50 and €725, and the collection of these values puts an obstacle to the completion of the course and the issue of the diploma itself. No student should see the legitimacy of the doctorate which concluded in question because of a fee that is wrongly charged to him. As the Association of Scientific Research Fellowships (ABIC) said, well, this rate is another obstacle to the completion of this academic degree. The disparity and arbitrariness of these values demonstrate to us once again that this reality does not make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to be with the young people once again. We believe that everyone must have access to higher education and that students must have more support on the part of the State for the completion of their studies. The elimination of fees and emoluments for admission to academic doctoral tests means a small step for doctors, but a gigantic leap in which a greater appreciation and bet on higher education and, above all, on students who attend it. [[Congrats from PS Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u119	Mr Porfirio Silva spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We greet ABIC, Association of Scientific Research Fellowships, which promotes Petition No 65 / XV / 1. (a) At the end of the admission rates to doctoral evidence. The main argument that petitioners submit is that the justification of universities for the existence of these fees and emoluments is false, because it makes no sense to claim that the fees are strictly necessary to bear the associated administrative costs and then there is a huge disparity in the fees charged. The petitioners illustrate with a variety of institutions that, for an act that will basically be the same, charge between €0 and €725. However, since the rates must correspond to the concrete provision of a particular service, the situation set out in this petition actually raises a problem that deserves attention. However, it also seems to us that today the debate is clearly inadequate as a response to the situation. Eliminate the fees and emoluments associated with a particular act, and only that act, and ignoring the entire rest of the universe of fees and emoluments practiced in higher education, is not the way to a global solution to the problem identified. So little is corrected the disparity between rates and emoluments associated with a given act, proceeding to the pure and simple elimination of all rates and emoluments. Therefore, and not entirely identifying us with any of the proposals under consideration today, we believe that it would be useful, on the basis of some of the proposals under consideration, to deepen a debate in the specialty which allows us to draw a path capable of increasing the overall rationality and equity of the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u122	The way we seek to understand which services should be covered by the tip charged to the student by the frequency of the study cycle and which, therefore, should not be subject to additional rates or emoluments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also goes on to introduce some order in the incomprehensible disparity observed today in rates and emoluments, which, in no way, is equivalent to its complete abolition — until this false solution would feed other inefficiencies in the system. This work should take into account the results of the survey that the MCTES (Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education) is making and seeking a solution that does not rule out the autonomy of higher education institutions. On the other hand, we are still discussing a number of other proposals, from proposals for extraordinary stock exchanges up to 17, 8 %, for the complete elimination of propines, for the forgiveness of propines debts and even proposals for the provision of tax revenue for certain higher education financing purposes. Several of these proposals have important budgetary implications, but no cure for estimating their budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u123	And do tax benefits not have a budgetary impact either?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u124	Let us be clear: on budgetary matters, we will even wait for the debate on the State budget. Several of these proposals ignore the fact that a review of the model for higher education financing is under way and that consultations are taking place between the Government and the higher education institutions on this matter. We want to wait for the results of this work. The Assembly of the Republic will have its time to intervene, and it will have to intervene, but we will not overrun this preparatory work, which is very necessary for a proper basis for the amendments to be made. One thing is right, the PS is committed to continuing the path of reducing access barriers and frequency of higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u125	You can't see anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u126	The number of scholarship students of social action increased by 24 %, since the PS took over the government, thanks to the enlargement of the universe of people covered.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u127	We're all poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u128	The eligibility threshold was increased by 2020 / 2021, by 2022 / 2023 and will be extended again from September 2023. Only this year will the eligibility threshold increase 12 %. In 2022, the Social Action Fund implemented 17 % more than that of the internal year, the second largest implementation ever exceeded only by 2010. Since the PS took over the government, the propines have decreased by 34 % nominally. If we had not frozen and then reduced the maximum limit of the propines, they would be at 1200 € this school year, but its maximum value is below 700 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, and despite the clear link between the PCP and the PSD to devalue this path that we have come to do, as seen by the reactions to my intervention, the truth is that we have not lost our track. [[Laughter of Members of the CFP.]] [[PSD protests.]] We will not accept an advance of the budgetary debate, we will carefully follow the work that the Government is carrying out to prepare for the revision of the model of higher education financing and we will now seek to ensure that there are conditions, in particular, to deepen the analysis of the issue of fees and emoluments. By this way, we hope to be giving a proper response to the request that ABIC brought to us and which, of course, deserved our careful analysis and attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u129	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Topa Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u130	Mr President: We have today a number of diplomas that speak of higher education and pro grammes, and I therefore begin to welcome the Association of Scientific Research Fellowships for how they participated democratically in this process. To discuss the issue of propinas, which is the only topic I will discuss in this intervention, I would bring to collage an OECD study ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) called Society at a Glance 2019. This study is an impressive thing for many of us: the monetary transfer of public policies in Portugal works the contrary. As Luís Aguiar-Conraria said, Portugal is New Zealand on the contrary. That is, from the money transfers we make in public policies, to the richest 20 %, we transferred 40% of the money; to the poorest 20 %, we transferred only 11 % of the money. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u131	There's a logic there!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u132	It's absurd, I know, but it's like that in Portugal. We do the opposite of all the rich countries of the OECD. In higher education, unfortunately, despite progress, which I welcome, we have much more people than the richest fifth of the poorest. So we should be thinking about strengthening the scholarships and social action. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u133	It also tells OECD, already said in several studies, that it makes no sense to reduce the propines as we have reduced them in Portugal. at a time when we have the highest tax burden of ever, at a time when we are increasingly poor, it is a total inefficiency to charge the highest taxes of always and then to be transferring money to the richest in society. It's absolutely no use at all. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] Unfortunately, the Socialist Party has brought us to a situation of poverty that can create serious constraints on access to higher education. contrary to what Mr Porfirio says, it will probably be the only thing we agree with the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of the Left: we are in a state of grueling poverty. [[Protests by PS Sprírio Silva and PCP MP Manuel Loff.]] Therefore, our recommendation regarding tips is to make use of this money to increase school social action, only that. We are against increasing propines, and if you ask why the answer is because we are convincingly social-democratic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u134	And what is the social-democrat proposal that will come out of there?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u135	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank the petitioners and all parliamentary groups, the Government, for the very person of the Minister. I believe that we all believe that there is underfunding of higher education. For example, in these days, we learned that the Board of Directors of Portuguese Universities ( CRUP ) will call on the Government to increase its budget by EUR 60 million because the allocation of the State budget for higher education institutions provided for an increase in inflation by less than 3 %, which was already out of date. The Minister has responded quickly to the COR, ensuring that the necessary funds will be given, and I will quote,'so that no one enters into failure, nor do any wages remain at stake. » Ruture was the chosen word. It is a good term for debate, because this is the situation in which much of higher education is broken. The Government recognises, and I quote again, « the difficulties that higher education institutions face with all this situation that the world is experiencing ». However, Mr. Members in Portugal, the problem of higher education institutions already precedes this situation. It is obvious that the global context has brought even more difficulties, but let us remember — because it is necessary to return to this issue — that the 2006 formula for funding higher education has ceased to apply in 2009. The Liberal Initiative had a draft resolution, which was approved in this House, so that there would indeed be, as the Government says it is doing, the revision of the financing model, which is important. We have had case reviews since 2009, which clearly is not admissible. Higher education institutions are in a broken situation, yes, they are suffocated financially and many still use obsolete models. In fact, there is a government inability to enhance dynamism in higher education. Fortunately, there are some good examples promoted by the universities themselves, but there is no effective dynamisation, through a public policy, of competitive and competitive models, which result in a change in the model of government of higher education institutions and openness to their own globalization, territorial cohesion and autonomy of institutions, which is quite important. So, yes, within this suffocation, it is natural that, in the face of extraordinary situations such as the one that lives today, there is less capacity for adaptation. What is not extraordinary, too, is the decrease of 13, 5 % of the population between 20 and 25 years old, which is the age group in which most of the university student population resides. In fact, as the OECD team itself has already warned, in a study that has already been mentioned today, it is important, for the sustainability of higher education itself, that we look not only at the capture of students for higher education but also older students for training, foreign students and students for vocational courses, and again, we do not observe this ability of perspective in government. Regarding the decapitalization of higher education, we are against. This implies very different angles than we have in relation to propines. In particular — and I would like to clarify this once again — we support the creation of a wider, more robust social action system in which more students are included, so it is important that there are no hidden costs, such as the rates and emoluments mentioned in the petition for this debate. We understand that fees and emoluments should be included in the tips for the benefit of the students receiving social action, pockets and everything else and that they should not have to choose between the use of these social action support, which are few, and school dropout. In practice, when it comes to higher education, politics fails at the level of student expectations, but at the moment, especially in the country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u137	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Dinis Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u138	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u139	in the same way that they also do not seem to know the state of budgetary rupture of Portuguese universities. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members, I call on you to meet the real country and to avoid the pressure of under-financing of higher education on students. Eliminating these rates would lead to the transfer of these costs potentially to the annual benefit of doctors and perhaps to the annual benefit of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, access to the doctorate and the guarantee of the frequency of the doctorate are made by ensuring, in the first instance, the frequency of the bachelor and master — guarantees that have been threatened by mobility problems affecting students in the autonomous regions and that the Socialist Party is concerned about not solving them. [[PSD applause.]] We have housing problems, which are reflected, in particular, in the lack of beds for the students displaced in this country, which the Socialist Party is also concerned about not solving.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u141	Just as we have mental health problems, which affect many of the young Portuguese, problems that the Socialist Party once again fears not to solve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing the third item on our agenda and moving to the fourth point, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 57 / XV / 1. a ( Filipe Maranhas de Castro Matos et al.) — By the right to mobility of pets, together with, in general, Bill No. 691 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Provides for the guarantee of the right to mobility with pets, eliminating discrimination by breeds and other limitations, and with Resolution Projects Nos 415 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government provide better access conditions for animals in mobility services and 472 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to mobility of pets. To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to begin by welcoming the more than 10,000 petitioners who give us the opportunity to discuss today the possibility of travel with beings who, for most of the Portuguese, are an integral part of their family, pets. However, even though they are more and more part of the family—we are talking about more than 50 % of family members holding animals—tutors face immense difficulties with regard to mobility with animals in transport. We are in 2023 and travelling with animals continues, as the petitioners say, to be an almost impossible mission. We continue to deal with the discretion of public or private transport companies and with rules and limitations that do no more than, in practice, demolish the guardians to travel with the animals. In addition to the existence of tight rules for travel, there is a completely unjustified prohibition: the prohibition on the movement in public transport of animals considered dangerous and potentially dangerous, ignoring that this discrimination should not be done on the basis of the race, but that it should be subject to proper regulations and conditions of transport that safeguard the safety of persons, animals and goods. The movement with these animals already implies the fulfilment of strict safety rules, making it largely pay for the discrimination they are target. What does it mean to include in this discrimination the impossibility of travelling with your tutor in public transport, thus preventing, for example, access to medical-veterinary treatment, when guardians do not have their own car or any other means to travel? This is an inconsistent prejudice which, in this case, should cease to exist. On the other hand, as far as limitations are concerned, we ask what meaning does it make for transport undertakings to be able to refuse to transport animals in periods that they consider to be more fluent? What is the point of forcing the animal's ticket to be purchased only at present, in the ticket shop, and moments before travelling, instead of being purchased online? What makes it possible to limit transport, at the start and without further criteria, only to animals that are present in good health, when public transport can be the only means by which the animal can be brought to a veterinarian? It is for all these questions, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and because we consider it essential to regulate and standardise the conditions for access of pets to mobility services, which the NAP presents the two legislative initiatives currently under discussion. We live at a time when having an animal should not be a conditioner. We live at a time when access to the use of public transport should be encouraged for all and also for our best friends: our four-legged friends, who should be no exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u144	To present the initiative of the Socialist Party, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the more than 10,000 petitioners who brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic. The coward called us all home and many of us fought this isolation with the company of an pet. That is my case, it is certainly the case of many of you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in this Chamber and this is also the case of many Portuguese people who are listening to this debate. According to data from the Company Animal Information System ( SIAC ), in 2020 there was an increase of 78 % in the adoption of cats and 15 % in the adoption of dogs, which remained fairly high in 2021. This raised the number of pets in Portugal to more than 3 million dogs and 600 000 cats, other than those not registered. That is why more than half — I repeat, more than half — are the Portuguese homes that have those we so often call the best friends of men. In recent years, society has been able to strengthen the protection of animal welfare. I am afraid that we have done so through the criminalization of ill-treatment, something to which we will soon be able to give constitutional dignity. I have done so through the prohibition of some of the most heinous practices, but also by investing in well-being, in particular by creating the figure of the Provider of Animals, increasing the investment in the capacity of the State to intervene, and, very important, allowing commercial establishments to admit pets in their premises. Now, this is a path that the Socialist Party is proud to have followed in these years, with important contributions from both the NAP and the parliamentary left. It is a way for us to be proud, just as we are proud that we are the party with the first draft resolution on this subject, present in this debate. However, the corollary of this policy is also to guarantee better mobility conditions for pets. That's what we're going to deal with today. This is a path that has already benefited from some progress in public public transport and on TVDE (transport by uncharacterized vehicle from electronic platform) but which still has many gaps. I am referring to the gaps that occur on the day-to-day, in practice, of the lives of people, of whom we call a Uber Pet, or a competitor, but who then, when the vehicle arrives, sees the services cancelled or is obliged to meet other conditions that were not foreseen, namely that of the packaging of the animal in box or backpack. Yes, therefore, it is time to regulate the conditions for access of pets to mobility services. It's time to create a counter-ordering regime for those who break them. It is time to secure consumers who, in this case, are far more than that, are the families of these animals and who want to be able to make their lives accompanied by them. The State has special responsibilities to ensure this right to mobility through public transport. For example, CP ( Portugal Trains ) allows the transport of pets to be free of charge on urban trains. In the other — in regional and long-term services — it allows transport provided the animals are packed. If they are not, it is necessary to acquire the own ticket title. Until then, in theory, it's okay. The problem is when families try to buy this ticket. This own ticket can only be purchased on the ticket at the start station and shortly before boarding. Why can't it be bought in advance? Oh, my God! Families pay the ticket, and then what happens? This ticket does not even give them the right to reserve an adjacent seat for the pet. In other words, in addition to having to show up in advance at the station, to buy the ticket, the citizen pays two tickets, but only has one seat and, finally, in this seat he has to be able to accommodate himself and the pet. This is not just an inconvenience to the animal or to the transporter. It is a difficulty for any passenger who sits next to that same person and animal. It's an inconvenience for anyone passing through that train corridor. If it is understood that the animal, finally, does not occupy the seat, the reservation of it allows to give more space for the citizen and the animal to travel in comfort and safety. Similarly, the need to present the vaccine newsletter and the competent license should not prevent the electronic sale of this ticket—after all, so many of us, during the covid, could do this too. Compliance with transport conditions may be verified at the moment by the staff, station or carriage, but already with the possession of the ticket. That is why this is a disproportionate and anachronistic provision that deserves our attention, with a view to overcoming it. Allowing this improvement of transport conditions for citizens with pets is also encouraging the use of public transport, which is a great advantage in a climate emergency period. This is true, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one of those strange situations in which we do not know why things are as they are, but in which, when we realize why they are so, we have the duty and obligation to change them. That is why we hope to work, in the specialty, with all the draft resolutions that were presented here today, because this majority is dialogue and, above all, because the most important are the people and pets of these people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the way we have made is to strengthen the protection of animal welfare, but we still have a way to do, at CP, on TVDE and beyond. That today we can take another step towards respect for the more than 50 % of the Portuguese who want to live in society with their pets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u146	To intervene in the debate, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last item on the agenda of this plenary, which is on the right to mobility of pets, has some contacts with the first item on today's agenda, where the Socialist Party defended the modernization of public management for a simpler state. I do not resist returning to this parallel because I was greatly intrigued by the scheduling of this first item on today's agenda. Actually, what happened? The Socialist Party, like the other parliamentary groups, has only two or three agenda rights per month, but decided to use one of these rare rights to schedule a draft resolution, when draft resolutions are recommendations to a Government that has an absolute majority, on matters that were so consensual that the House had difficulty in commenting something particularly deep, making a sort of speech by Miss Mundo. The question is, why? And the only explanation I find is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is already trying to prevent its future,... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... because the successive exhaustion of the resignations of this real catastrophe, in view of everyone, which is the PCI ( Parliamentary Inquiry Commission ) of TAP, as well as the collapse of public services and public administration, has already made you see that if you do not do something and do not force the government to act, many of your places are in danger. So they said: "Uncomplicate this! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, this was a brilliant introduction...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u148	It's brilliant, it's brilliant!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u149	...to tell you that we know that you are used to complicate people's lives, but animals are not to blame. I repeat, animals are not to blame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u150	We have Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo doing Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u151	We welcome this petition, which is currently under discussion, because it obliges us to think of ways to decomplicate the lives of millions of Portuguese people who share their lives with pets, which bring them great joy and comfort.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u152	He's still going to make a coalition!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u153	We will be enthusiastically supporting the improvements that some of these diplomas bring, with regard to the advance purchase or purchase of online tickets, for pets — under the same commercial conditions — as well as the simplification of the verification of the state of health of these animals. This generic feasibility of initiatives does not mean that there are no important things to check and to deepen in particular with regard to potentially dangerous animals, in which we believe that there is a collision with the rights of people who have to be better covered by the law than they are now. In the Liberal Initiative, we believe that the health of a society is seen in the way we treat animals, but we also believe that the health of a democracy is seen by the way we treat people. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u154	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I comply with the 10 281 petitioners, in the person of the first subscriber, Mr Filipe de Castro Matos. I would like to thank you for your citizenship exercise in accordance with Article 52. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic — right to petition —, exposing a set of complaints or occurrences already regulated by law, but with failures of compliance and supervision by the competent authorities of the State, in particular those protected by the Government. Not limited to the complaint, they also presented concrete suggestions for improvement, which motivated the PSD Parliamentary Group to move forward with the Resolution Project No 603 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Transport of pets, already discussed in the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, and which today will be at the vote. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD Parliamentary Group considers that the problems presented result from non-compliance with the existing law or regulatory failures and does not appear relevant to making premature changes to the law. As a result, and considering that the presence of pets is increasingly common among Portuguese families in need of mobility ; that, in general terms, the transport of pet animals in public transport services, including carriage on uncharacterised cars, except for a reasonable reason, in particular danger, their health or hygiene conditions; that some companies providing public public transport services in public or individual taxi or TVDE, have been gradually creating conditions for these animals to be able to accompany their owners in travel; and that in trains, in particular in Alfa and Intercities, the pet pays the same value or a higher value for the transport title than its owner, without the right to equivalent space, being sent to the baggage area or being installed at the feet of the owner, the PSD Parliament recommends to the Government that conditions of comfort and safety be made available for the carriage of pet animals, through which it always designates, through the public transport service, through a place, through which it is always accessible. The PSD also recommends that the Government, through the competent authorities, sanction undertakings providing public public public transport or individual transport services that advertise the animal transport service, but that, when requested by customers, refuse or cancel the request. It further recommends that the Government regulate, by harmonizing the conditions for the access and transport of pet animals, in the public transport service, in particular the advance purchase of the transport licence, the verification of the vaccine bulletin and the licence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the initiatives under discussion, the PSD will follow the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, because it is similar. But with the same frontality, it will vote against the NAP proposals — either the draft resolution or the bill — because, once again, the NAP allows its animal agenda to overturn the common sense necessary to resolve the problems presented by the petitioners. [[PSD applause.]] Worse, instead of contributing to the resolution of the problem presented, the NAP introduces two proposals which, to be approved, would call into question the transport of pet animals. In other words, by recommending to the Government the elimination of the ban on the movement in public transport of animals deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous, as well as the revision of the criterion limiting the movement of pet animals in an appropriate state of health, the NAP reverses the order of priorities in public transport from persons to animals. I even admit that there are canicles, chihuahuas or yorkshires more ruler than a rottweiler bonacheir – admitted! — and no one questions the freedom to assist any citizen to choose the pet or breed of the dog. However, this same freedom cannot be restricted to those who feel uncomfortable with the presence, in the same public transport space, of dogs of dangerous breeds, of animals in a state of health or unrecommendable hygiene, which the law should frame, as it does in the present. This reversal, in the wake of the desirable and defensive, has never been required by the petitioners, who only want the present law to be clarified and, above all, complied with. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u156	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners who brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic and, secondly, to record how they put the Liberal Initiative in trouble,... [[That's a laugh from PS Miguel Matos.]] ... that he had to do a great deal of his speech with the "whataboutism" on everything and nothing, not to mention the problem that the citizens themselves brought. This is an example of the fact that when it comes to the fundamental expectations market — in this case, the right to animal mobility — remains the people and remains the animals without those rights. Why? It is sufficient to read what is stated in the text delivered by the petitioners, because private companies promise to transport animals, but their guardians actually connect to private companies, in order to be able to transport their animals, and then are afraid, because no one gives them the answer. The market, after all, is not enough to respond to needs and rights. I am glad that these petitioners have called the Liberal Initiative to reason, as they have demonstrated, to satiate, the limitations of their ideology in people's concrete lives, and how, most of the time, it is an obstacle and not a solution. To bring solutions, it is first of all necessary to recognize the obvious: if there is a company that already does something, it is the public company, the CP. If there is a company that could immediately improve its response by legal amendment as a result of the recommendations that are currently being proposed here, it is also the COP. This serves, firstly, to say that we follow the Socialist Party's proposal, which recommends to the Government, as well as the PAN initiative, which goes in the same direction, that it facilitates, operationalizes and guarantees the enforcement of the right to transport domestic animals in the CP, on railways, but also to guarantee it in other public means of transport. It is also necessary — and we follow the NAP proposals — to ensure that there is no discrimination in the type of transport in the law. I believe that this helps us to have a greater universality in the guarantee of this right. Finally, we also follow the need to force the market to be limited in its free choice, and to fulfil the right of animal guardians, to fulfil the right of domestic animals to their mobility, because otherwise it is the ideology of the Liberal Initiative, once again, to put obstacles to the lives of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u158	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank each of the thousands of petitioners, because we are in solidarity with the right to transport our animals properly. Among these thousands of petitioners will be Catarina. The Catarina I will mention sent us a report which I think conveys the spirit of this petition. Catarina travels daily, in the morning, between Aveiro and Porto, and from Porto to Aveiro, after a working day. One day, Catarina, on returning home, saw a boy enter the Ovar station, with a chadelite through the trella. They both walked in and turned calmly and politely toward the end of the carriage. The reviewer came and asked for the ticket, which was dramatic, because the dog had no ticket! Neither the boy, nor anyone in the carriage, knew that if the dog was in a box, he wouldn't pay any more tickets. However, now, as he grew up and was about to walk, he was already paying a whole ticket. The boy didn't know, in the carriage no one knew and Catarina, who was watching, didn't know either. They didn't know, nor did they guess, because it simply doesn't make sense. Meanwhile, the train stopped at the station in Estarreja and the reviewer called the police to deal with the situation. The passengers revolted, with the expectation, of course! — because many people there had agreed to work for the Invicta at 6 o'clock in the morning. They revolted with the reviewer and with the police and even offered to pay the ticket, something that the boy himself had already proposed. However, the reviewer informed that the law did not allow it and that he could not sell the ticket to the pet there in the carriage. People were all revolted, but the reviewer only complied with the law. In the meantime, the police, who identified the boy, told him he had to leave the carriage, because he should have the ticket for the dog. The boy and all the people repeated that they were paying the ticket, but it was not possible. I'd have to go show the animal documents to the window and only there could I buy the ticket. In fact, tickets for animals cannot be purchased either on the Internet or in advance, they must be actually bought at the time of boarding, in the window. But even though it's a whole ticket, it only gives the little floor right in the middle of the owner's feet. The dinner's on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The boy is put out of the carriage and, with that, the string of the dog is released, which has always been quiet there, but now feels lost. Start barking at the cops, with eyes of fear — the dog, not Catarina! Catarina, who is a woman from the North, plus the people from the carriage, said some good vernaculars and revolted, but the police...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u160	The northerners are doing that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u161	...and the reviewer, zealous, only listen, only comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u162	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting you, it's just a minute, because you're very loud in the room. Is it possible for people to move, silently, inside or outside the Chamber, and have the conversations they have to have in a low tone, so that the speaker can be heard by those who are interested in hearing it, starting with myself? I therefore ask for a little silence and I apologize to the honourable Member for this. Please continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u163	However, Mr President, you are not at least guilty, I am very grateful to you for maintaining the normal progress of the work. I said that Catarina, who is a woman from the North, as well as the people of the carriage, said, complaining, good vernaculars, but the police and the reviewer, zealous, only heard and complied with the law. The boy and the dog were beaten and on that day all the passengers on that train arrived late home after a day's work. Catarina later wrote: “I’m sick of crying because, really, we are given to the kiss. Shouldn't the laws have a pedagogical part and be more humane for the owners of these animals and friends? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[At this moment, the speaker showed two photographs.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the police who are in these pictures are obliged to comply with the laws we emanate from this House. The Fairy, this puppy, down, is in the middle of them, without realizing anything. The train is no. 15747, from 18h05, from Saint Benedict to Aveiro. Here we were, gentlemen. Members, Mr President, the finished example of what is happening in the lives of the common Portuguese people, at the mercy of a bureaucratic state, a bureaucratic, totalitarian and socialist state, which creates laws, rules, rules, taxes and taxes, with the sole aim of raising people's lives in hell. The Government and the PS are always using the flag of animals and say they are fighting for animal abandonment, but in fact they do nothing to remove obstacles to the owners of animals: they hinder transport, do not lower the costs of medical veterinary acts, nor do they continue to name municipal veterinary doctors, etc. etc. And this House, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it has led to more than a dozen initiatives by the Parliamentary Group of the European Union, all of them in this area. I am not talking about the proposals of the State budget, but we have proposed here initiatives such as the creation of municipal animal relief teams, the reduction of VAT (value added tax) for medical services and food, the increase in the protection of pets, the strengthening of means of combating animal abandonment, etc. It comes from a bureaucratic state, which only suits the socialist technocrats of the Largo do Rato and Brussels. That's enough! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] The party arrives, as a conservative party, will always be in the defense of people, in the promotion of animal welfare and in the defense of the conservation of nature. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u164	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by welcoming the petitioners for the issues they bring us and, secondly, I would like to say that we will be following the initiatives in question, because we think that it may be possible, in the specialty, to find a balanced solution to the rules on the transport of pet animals in public transport. It seems to us appropriate that train tickets for pets can be purchased in the same way as normal tickets, as proposed by the petition and suggested in the draft resolutions under consideration. It seems also appropriate for us that breeds of dogs considered dangerous or potentially dangerous — although they are not animals that are dangerous, but some owners, because of their behavior, but this is another matter — may have the possibility of travelling under the same conditions, and this seems to us to be important to safeguard, because in the project that is under consideration, it is expected that animals can travel under the same conditions as they travel on the public road, therefore, with the same security guarantees that they are provided for the movement of animals on the public road. in this sense, it seems to us that it is appropriate the proposal that was presented by the NAP. That being the proposal, it seems to us that there is this adequacy of the compatibility between the mobility of pet owners and the safeguarding of the safety of other passengers. On the other hand, the possibility of transporting two animals in these conditions, particularly in transporters or in short-lived areas, offers us some doubts, from the point of view of animal welfare, but this can be refined in particular. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, travel may be a cause of stress for pets, both in individual transport and in public transport, but public transport, which must be encouraged and which, for many, is the only alternative, has characteristics that increase risks, both for animal welfare and for public safety and health. The sense of the bill presented, as well as the draft resolutions, does not seem to contradict the necessary balance between mobility and these concerns, which, for us, will always be to safeguard. We will therefore follow these initiatives, considering that there is a way to go and that they can count on the CFP in this direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u166	For a short speech, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a very telegraphic way, but taking into account the concerns raised by the Liberal Initiative and the PSD, I would like to reinforce that Law Decree No 315/2009 is very clear, it already specifically provides for the mandatory movement of potentially dangerous animals with abrasive and truce. Even with regard to sick animals, we cannot have a criterion here that somehow ignores a reality that the health criterion can mean an animal with a broken leg, it can mean an animal with dermatitis in which, indeed, the person does not have economic means to travel by car itself and only has public transport to help himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u168	The Bureau no longer requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] After all, Mr Rui Tavares wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u169	He didn't sign up! He didn't sign up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u170	It is appropriate that this wish should also be expressed at the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to greet the petitioners, who bring an important matter, an important warning to this House and indeed a revelation, because, under European law, they have freedom of movement for pets, even have the right to passports for dogs, cats and ferrets. We have just discovered that, like many rights, they are rights that cannot exist only in abstract, they have to serve concrete people who want to move from point A to point B and take their pets, whether they are dogs, cats or, even, who knows, ferrets. Therefore, the Free will support the initiatives accompanying this petition and which aim to solve a practical problem that puts many people, every day and sometimes with consequences. Let us, for example, think of pets for people who need them, from blind people, for example, or even other people who need pets and also need to move. In this debate, we also learn something else: that democracy is working, that is to say, citizens presenting a petition, that petition is being debated in the Assembly of the Republic, and even, in the light of the facts, achieving the agreement of virtually all groups of the Assembly of the Republic, it is a sign of totalitarianism. I think it is funny, because there are politicians who sometimes complain a lot about the use and abuse of certain ideological labels, but they never have the slightest problem to say that Portugal is already a totalitarian state, see there, in the same title as North Korea or those countries where trains were on time—at the time, I do not know whether with domestic animals—to, as Fernando Pessoa explained, people will see the shooting of their family members, in time, in Rome, in the time of fascist Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u172	Look, a little joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u173	We shall therefore conclude this item on the agenda and we shall proceed to the vote. I would ask the services which open up the quorum verification system and I would ask the honourable Members to do so. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if anyone could not register. Mr. Paulo Pisco was unable to register. Anyone else? [[Pause.]] I wonder if someone didn't hear me ask if someone couldn't register. Everyone heard. So I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise their result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, let's move on to the deliberations. We will begin by voting, in general, Law No 39 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Clarify the intervention of municipalities in the procedures for the construction, expansion or modification of an aerodrome. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the PSD, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. The PSD informs the Bureau that it will make a written statement of vote on this vote. Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 704 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — See Decree-Law No 186/2007 of 10 May 2007 laying down the conditions for the construction, certification and operation of national civil aerodromes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 72 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the protection of sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and sexual characteristics ( fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and the Members of PS Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Marcos Perestrello, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Susana Correia.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. I need you guys. Ladies and gentlemen are either in the Chamber, or outside the Chamber. It's not possible to be in the lobby in transit. Mr. Carlos Pereira, please sit down, or please step away. In the meantime, let's go to the chestnuts, that is, at Mr. Members to submit explanations of vote. Mr Pedro Pinto informs the Bureau that he will make a written statement of vote on behalf of the bench. All right. More music? [[Pause.]] Since we have not now passed the vote, in general, of Bill No. 359 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening the right to exercise the right to self-determination of gender identity, gender expression and the right to the protection of sexual characteristics in school. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, against the PSD and the CH and with the abstentions of the IL and of the Members of the PS Marcos Perestrello and Sérgio Sousa Pinto were adopted.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 21 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — The first amendment to Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August establishing the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person and to the approval of its regulations is made. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, and the CH and IL, the PCP and the Members of the PS Marcos Perestrello and Sérgio Sousa Pinto were approved.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 209 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Prohibition and criminalisation of « conversion practices », which aim to suppress sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and the Members of PS Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Marcos Perestrello, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Susana Correia.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mr Alexandre Simões asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u174	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote and also that I did not register in time, so that I may consider my presence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u175	I'm sorry, but now we're in the vote. What is the point of your vote in this bill?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u176	And an application for a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u177	Ah! It is to make a statement of vote. All right! It follows the Bill No. 705 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthen the protection and privacy of children and young people in spaces of privacy in school context. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry. Was it wrong? What was the mistake?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u178	Mr President, I believe that the vote on draft Law No 332 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( PS ), which is on page 4 of the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u179	Yes, sir, thank you very much. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 332 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — establishes the framework for the issuance of administrative measures to be adopted by schools for the purposes of the implementation of Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L, votes against PSD and CH and abstentions by PS MPs Marcos Perestrello and Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] Will the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party present a declaration of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u180	No, in this case you will present an oral vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u181	In the end, then, we will have an oral vote. Does Mrs Emília Cerqueira ask for the floor to indicate that the PSD Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u182	No, Mr President, it will also be an oral vote on draft Law No 359 / XV / 1. a (BE), 21 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 332 / XV / 1. a ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u183	Thank you very much. Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u184	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u185	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u186	Mr President, it is only to ask the Bureau whether, from the reading of the Rules of Procedure, what is supposed to be not that oral or written explanations of vote, but there is some flexibility in writing that does not usually exist in the oral language, only apply to the overall final vote of the diplomas, and not to their general vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u187	All right. Let us then listen to the « regimentists». Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves is dying to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u188	Mr President, it is precisely to agree with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. Only the declaration of vote is allowed when, where appropriate, the initiative is rejected, and not so, they have been adopted. There is therefore only oral statement in the overall final vote. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u189	Well, I confess that I have read the Rules of Procedure three times, but I cannot answer that. So until the end of our votes...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u190	If you want, Mr. President, I'll help you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u191	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u192	« Produce oral explanations of vote after each overall final vote[...] ». It lasts the law, but the law. in this case, we wait for the global final vote to hear the explanations of vote on these projects. All right. You're clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u193	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u194	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u195	Mr President, in view of what has now been the Bureau's decision, the PSD will transform it into a written vote on the three initiatives announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u196	Thank you very much. Be registered. The Bureau also has information that it will do the same in the same sense. Be registered. We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No 699 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents criminalization of practices with a view to changing, limiting or suppressing sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, and promotes the study of these practices in Portugal and the guarantee of support and response mechanisms. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and the Members of PS Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Marcos Perestrello, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Susana Correia.]] The project goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 705 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthen the protection and privacy of children and young people in spaces of privacy in school context. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 707 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Prohibits practices against LGBT+ people through so-called « sexual conversion therapies ». [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and the Members of PS Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Marcos Perestrello, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Susana Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u198	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u199	Mr President, it is only to mention that for this project as well as for Bills No 699 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 209 / XXV / 1. a ( L) and 72 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has already been sent a written statement of vote, signed by myself, by Mrs Cláudia Santos, Mr Bruno Aragão and Mrs Susana Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u200	Thank you. Be registered. Therefore, Bill No. 707 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) was approved and down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u201	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u202	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u203	It is to inform you that I am going to make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u204	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 571 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the promotion of innovation and modernisation of public management to a simpler, speedy and efficient State at the service of people. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] The project was approved and down to 13. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 153 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government speed up the digitalisation process of the Public Administration, in a strategy for the sustainable development of the communities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the PAN and the L.]] We then vote in general on Resolution No. 191 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the annual implementation and presentation of a waste control report in the public sector and the final implementation of the Accounting Standardization System for Public Administration. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the BE and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 402 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to rationalise the consultative administration of the State. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PAN and L.]] We now generally vote for Law No 7 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — The guarantee of fair treatment for foreign citizens in Portugal without a valid travel permit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u205	What about Venezuela? What about the Venezuelans?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u207	This needs to have a panoramic view. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u208	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a written statement of vote on behalf of the bank of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u209	All right. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 667 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Updates of scientific research scholarships and their components, resets cut subsidies and eliminates doctoral fees. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] The general vote on Bill No 685 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the end of the collection of admission fees and emoluments for the provision of doctoral evidence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 689 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Basic Law on the Financing of Higher Education, Law No 37 / 2003, of 22 August 2003. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from IL, the PCP and the members of PS Alexandra Leitão, Barbara Dias, Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Francisco Dinis, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha, Miguel Matos, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Delgado Alves, Susana Barroso and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u211	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u212	Mr President, that is to say that I will deliver a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Maria Begonha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u215	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u216	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of nine other Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the vote on an application by L, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged without a 60-day vote of draft resolution No 476 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of admission rates to academic evidence. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on a request by the NAP for a discharge to the Education and Science Committee without a 60-day vote of draft resolution No 549 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of fees and emoluments in public higher education institutions for admission to academic evidence of doctorate. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 581 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — Recommends to the Government a set of assumptions to be considered in the reform of higher education financing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected, votes against the PAN and L and abstentions against BE and the members of PS Barbara Dias, Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Francisco Dinis, Ivan Gonçalves, Maria Begonha, Miguel Matos, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Delgado Alves, Susana Barroso and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]] Thank you to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that you are pointing out to me that I have to go to the ophthalmology consultation, because I am no longer recognizing people very far back. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u218	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u219	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u220	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this set of projects on fees and emoluments in higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u221	Be registered. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 691 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — provides for the guarantee of the right to mobility with pets, eliminating discrimination by breeds and other limitations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No. 415 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government provide better access conditions for animals in mobility services. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 472 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to mobility of pets. The Bureau notes that there is a request to isolate point 2, requested by the Arrival, which has the agreement of the NAP and which the Bureau assumes no parliamentary group opposes. [[Pause.]] We shall then vote, in general, alone, point 2 of draft resolution No 472 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to mobility of pets. [[Pause.]] Today we are on the practical lesson of the Rules of Procedure. According to our services, it is not possible to isolate resolution points in the project debate in general. Applying the old Latin principle '[...] lex— hard or soft, sed lex', it is not possible. So we have to vote in bloc. Regimentalists are therefore calmed down. Let us then vote, in general, on a block, the Draft Resolution No 472 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to mobility of pets. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 603 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Transport of pets. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project goes down to 6. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 562 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government take decisive action to combat inflation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We now have the vote on draft resolution No 331 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Implement the measures of the Flood Risk Management Plans to safeguard people and goods. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 417 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government restrict the production and marketing of fuels or biofuels containing palm oil or other unsustainable food crops. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] We have thus reached the end of the vote. We do not have a file, we do not have oral explanations of vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u222	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u223	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u224	Mr President, it was only to ask the Bureau to record my presence, since I could not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. She also asks Mrs Rita Matias for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u226	Mr President, it was for the same purpose to say that I am present and that I would like my presence to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u227	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I see that Mr. João Castro asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u228	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-21.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Well, somewhere in the next Leaders Conference, we have to define a rule that everyone can comply with. The next sessions will be as follows: the Solemn Good Friday Session to the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, and the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLIX Anniversary of 25 April, 11 a.m. and 30 minutes on Tuesday. I would like to draw the attention of all the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, they will receive their safety instructions. There are security issues that must be met and which will involve restrictions on road traffic, so they must comply with and comply with the indications given to Mrs and Mrs. Members travelling by car to the Assembly of the Republic. Then, on Wednesday, April 26, we will have the debate in plenary of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme presented by the Government, together with Resolution Projects Nos 630 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures and incentives for the production of energy for self-consumption from renewable sources and the creation of the programme « SOL FOR ALL », 639 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By rejecting the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027, 640 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the inclusion of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the Green Budgeting Principles of the Climate Bases Act in the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 and other public policy guidance documents, 641 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government provide for the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 and the National Reform Programme 2023 an interim update of the IRS steps that accommodate the inflation recorded in the years 2021 and 2022, 643 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of income from inflation and rejection of the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027, 644 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government establish in the Stability Programme objective and predictable criteria for the use of the budget strike in the event of a surplus in the form of a commitment to equity and investment, 646 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For a better life: increase in wages and pensions, control and price reduction, more investment and national production, and 649 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Stability Programme 2023 - 2027 a forecast of measures to be taken to restore the State's capacity to fulfil constitutional obligations in the social field and an economic growth strategy. The gentlemen. Members of the Autonomous Regions can go quiet to the airport this time. [[Laughing.]] I wish everyone a good weekend. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 12 hours and 56 minutes.]]
