ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work, so the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Since there is no record to read, we have already started the agenda, the first item of which is the current debate required by the Block of the Left, with the title « Gender inequality in the world of work ». To open the debate on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese society has to know that it lives and that it compacts with unacceptable levels of wage inequality between men and women, and that it has to know that this is a disaster. It is a catastrophe for women's rights in Portugal; it is a catastrophe for gender equality, for the most part; it is a catastrophe, because it causes the economic dependence of women, which makes them more fragile and more susceptible to other types of violence and inequality; it is a catastrophe for our economy and for the delay it means in our economy; it is a catastrophe, because poorly paid women are women with lower reforms, so women are also the poorest in Portuguese society. The first problem, when talking about wage inequality, is, in fact, whether we know the levels of wage inequality in Portugal. Whenever wage equality day is celebrated, the day on which pay inequality is called attention, it speaks of 12%, 13% of inequality, but these data are not real. Eurostat disclosed a number 11, 2 %, which would mean that we were below the European average. Information from staff members of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security says 13, 3 %. However, none of these numbers are correct, because they only relate to average wages between workers and full-time workers. These are misleading numbers, which tell us what we would like to hear, but are not the portrait of wage inequality in Portugal. Therefore, the first challenge is statistical. The Equal Labour and Employment Commission (ISCED) and researcher Sara Falcão Casaca defend the revision of the statistical methodology to achieve wage inequality, because inequality is not just pay, it is not just basic wage. That is also what ILO (International Labour Organization) says, and it is for this path that points to Law No 60 / 2018. If we use as a measure the average gain, which includes other types of subsidies beyond the basic remuneration, inequality rises to 16 %, leaving out of work. When the accounts are made with more detail—and they have already been made by researchers and researchers in this country—the difference in hourly gain is 19% and the difference in monthly gain is 21%. This is the reality of wage inequality in Portugal. We have an obligation to know and, as political leaders, as political decision-makers, we have an obligation to ask ourselves whether we still know all there is to know about wage inequality, or whether we only know enough. For example, do we know that disparities are greater at higher levels of academic qualification, that is, the more they study, the less women are compensated for having the same academic course as men? Do we know that differences are greater in highly qualified professions? This is not, contrary to what one might think, a problem of factories or disqualified professions; it is also a problem of large companies and large offices. For example, do we know that the difference is smaller at the base of the career than at the top of the career and that, therefore, the more women rise, the more disparity rises? So this too is not a merit problem, as some Liberals would like it to be. It is also not a problem that is solved by decree. The basis of wage inequality is gender inequality. Women are not only discriminated against because they have more family responsibilities and, therefore, are less available for abuse in working hours. They suffer many indirect discriminations, such as performance assessments. Aid premiums and night work increase men's remuneration; part-time work decreases women's remuneration. In addition, work is also segregated by gender. The professions are determined by stereotypes and the professions mostly occupied by women are less paid than the professions of men. Discrimination is structural: even in certain professions, or in certain companies, women are in charge or undervalued jobs in relation to those occupied by men. It is vertical discrimination: the under-representation of women in top places—in fact, even today, in the media, data and current studies—is a reality. It is also necessary to speak in precarious terms. Precautionary especially affects women and is also a factor of poverty. So, in addition to the statistical challenge, we have a political challenge. We have a law full of good intentions, no doubt, but we have no way to apply it. We must have instruments of wage transparency, of regular disclosure of wages and remuneration, so that we can assess whether or not there is gender discrimination. There must be more severe consequences for when wage inequalities are identified. The law, in fact, gives the Act (Working Conditions Authority) the opportunity to analyze and oblige companies to justify wage discrepancies between men and women, but I would like to draw attention to this: the Act recently identified 1540 companies with 50 or more workers with wage differences between men and women. As a result, they have 120 days to present a plan for assessing pay differences and one year for correcting unwarranted wage differences. These are not real, concrete or minimally effective consequences for combating wage inequality. Sara Falcon Casaca, one of the biggest experts in this area, has appealed to the evaluation and regulation of the law. I think we can start there, but one thing is right: we have to start somewhere, because something has to be done to fight the absurd levels of wage inequality between men and women that exist in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u3	To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The role of women in modern societies has changed profoundly. This is something on which we should welcome, because this evolution lies in a civilizational aspiration and, in addition, enriches the community as a whole. But it also ennobles the democracy and freedom that April calls for. Equal treatment and opportunity between women and men is an imperative of social and economic progress. 50 years ago, only 25% of women participated in the labour market, contrasting with 90% of men. Women worked with equal intensity and sacrifice, but, in their overwhelming majority, informally, within the family home. Portugal is now one of the European countries with the highest rate of female participation in the labour market. The participation rate of women is currently 50 % and that of men 57%. Despite changing the paradigm, it is undeniable that situations of inequality persist and are of a different nature. Since early on, they have shown themselves to have access to qualifications and access to work, and they have already manifested themselves in the context of work at various levels, from the wage level, through the exercise of parental rights, or in terms of reconciling work with personal and family life, as well as with regard to opportunities for training and career progression. Despite the efforts made, it is important to recognize that the labour market continues to be hostile to women and, above all, women with children, small or still dependent, or women responsible for providing care to family members. We can therefore not stop fighting to counteract this state of affairs. In the last year, the Commission on Equality at Work and Employment issued a total of 964 opinions, 812 on women and 152 on men. These numbers mirror, in fact, a second paradox: inequality in the world of work affects men and women unequally.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u6	A central aspect is precisely the need to combat wage inequalities, especially in the most qualified professions, where the wage gap is even more pronounced. Women continue to be represented among semi-qualified professionals, in the middle, and underrepresented in higher management positions and with higher qualifications. The adoption of social transformation-inducing public policies is therefore of the greatest importance. Law No 60 / 2018 is a good example of this, requiring the assessment and correction of the remuneration differences of discriminatory content. Innovative instruments, such as the barometer of pay differences between women and men, were implemented, which aims to provide statistical information specialized in this area. Payable differences by company, profession and qualification levels have been identified at the time of submission of the single report. It also called on companies, regardless of their size, to ensure a transparent remuneration policy based on the evaluation of the components in the workplace and on objective criteria. The presumption of remuneration discrimination was observed in cases where the worker claims to be discriminated against and the employer does not present a transparent remuneration policy, which allows him to demonstrate that the differences are based on objective grounds. The implementation of these measures enables compensating companies to be awarded by creating equal pay. This is also a way of demonstrating that wage equality is happening on the ground, so that there is a drag effect. In this case, it is a matter of pointing the finger, but for good reasons. In 2022, 17 555 companies received the stamp of wage equality. Those who fail are notified by the ACT. All companies whose balance sheets show pay differences shall submit a plan for assessing gender pay differences. Last February, the Act notified 1540 employers, with 50 or more workers, who had a wage inequality equal to or greater than 5 %. Any company covered by this action has, under the law, 120 days to submit an assessment plan and one year to implement it. More than creating new obligations, efforts have been made to create concrete tools to ensure that the principles of law are met. The system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of entities of the public business sector and listed companies in the stock market, and the regime of balanced representation between men and women in the management staff and public administration bodies are relevant instruments in this strategy. There is also a new Directive on wage disparity in the European Commission under discussion, which we are following. This will have some innovations, which, in due course, will be transposed into national legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, wage inequality stems not only from subjective causes, such as discrimination, but instead reflects other forms of gender inequality deeply rooted, culturally, difficult to cancel by decree. By dividing them into two levels: in the world of work, unbalanced representation in management positions, or income inequalities, with impacts on social benefits, such as, for example, unemployment benefits, or old-age pension values; in the private sphere, the female overload on her dual journey, which is, moreover, directly related to asymmetries in the world of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u7	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u8	It is for this reason that changes were made to the Labour Code and extended social support, through the implementation of the dignified work agenda, which will enter into force on 1 May. This agenda is powerful, from the point of view of promoting gender equality and strengthening measures to promote reconciliation between professional, personal and family life over time, as well as protection measures in parenthood.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u9	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u10	I'm done now, Mr. President. The aim of these new measures is to enable and encourage men to increasingly take on the sharing of responsibilities, taking care of their children or dependents, and, on the other hand, to ensure that women can maintain their employment and progress in their professional career. The issues of conciliation should be seen as an investment in the present and the future, with positive effects also on productivity. This bet is a safe investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u11	Mr. Secretary of State, I apologize for interrupting. Mr. Secretary of State has long exceeded his time. I therefore ask you to conclude so that we can continue the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The challenge is permanent and requires progressive policies to counter retrograde and stereotyped views. Only in this way will we be able to build a decent society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u13	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the first round of the debate. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Marta Freitas has the floor. I would ask everyone to keep up with the use of intervention times, because there are our colleagues who see their right severely impaired at the end of the week for the very late hour at which the Friday sessions are ending. There are even people who have flights, others who have rail trips, and we all have the right to have a weekend and conditions to enjoy it with the family or with whom we understand very well. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I respect the Left Block for this debate, which should be of interest to all. The fight against barriers faced by women in access to the labour market and the rise to top positions has been a priority of the Socialist Party. The work for gender equality in the labour market lacks continuous attention and effort and the will of all to be achieved, and requires legislative developments, such as that which has occurred in recent years, in particular in the protection of parenthood and in promoting the reconciliation of professional, family and personal life by women and also men. Thus, I highlight the recent approval of the Dignified Work Agenda, which, in addition to adopting measures in this regard, has also strengthened labour protection for informal caregivers, and these are mostly women, creating conditions for caregivers to reconcile their professional activity with their family life, providing support to families who have their care. As an example of measures, I refer to the freeness of day care, which, in addition to the support it offers to families, allows more women not to be forced to choose between their family lives and pursue a professional career. The fight against gender inequality in the labour market also requires the participation and commitment of the whole society — of organisations and companies — to achieve this end. in this sense, I highlight the work that has been developed by the Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment, which, together with legal activity, develops awareness and cooperation activities with public and private entities, for example through projects such as: The value of unpaid work of women and men — care work and domestic tasks; the Parents @ Work ; and, in combating gender stereotypes in educational and vocational choices, the EqualPro. It is also noted that in 2021 ISCED 683 mandatory application opinions were adopted by the employer, and in total opinions 87 % of workers and 13 % of workers were involved, and 73 5 % of the opinions deliberate were unfavourable to the intention of refusing the employer to grant the application made by the workers. In addition, in the last 10 years, the average annual number of opinions issued by ISCED has been increasing. We know that equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the European Union and its Member States. However, what is happening in the European area is that women are still underrepresented in the labour market and in management positions. However, in the national space, we can see the existence of an employed and active population at historical peaks. In the case of women employed today are 2, 4 million, i.e. more than 340 000. Within the active population, 2, 6 million are women — more than 180 000 in 2015. The employment rate of women also reached its record peak 69, 4 % in the fourth quarter of 2022, i.e. 65, 3 % above the European average between 15 and 64 years of age. The European Pillar of Social Rights provides for a social Europe for all European citizens, giving priority to equal access to the labour market, fair working conditions and the balance between working life and family life. It was at the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in 2021, that the Social Summit of Porto was held, giving political impetus to the implementation of this European Pillar of Social Rights and its action plan proposed by the European Commission. Portugal also supported and promoted the negotiation and adoption of several Council conclusions, in particular with regard to the socio-economic impact of covid-19 on gender equality and the impact of artificial intelligence on gender equality on the labour market. Even in 2021, Portugal called on the Council to advance the adoption of the Women on Boards directive on the participation of women in the board of directors of listed companies. I recall that it was with the Socialist Government in the leadership that Portugal published the first law that provides for a system of gender quotas in the labour market, Law No. 62 / 2017, indicating an increasing awareness of the importance of gender equity in boards of administration and supervision and for organizational change, promoting women's access to leadership positions. In 2018, Law No 60 / 2018 was also approved, with a view to wage transparency, which introduces measures to promote equal pay for women and men by equal or equal value work, and aims to promote an effective fight against pay inequalities between women and men. Finally, Portugal has initiated negotiations of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on binding measures of wage transparency, which have recently been adopted, and Portugal has already anticipated these measures with the entry into force since 2019 of the said Law No 60 / 2018. Knowing that, despite positive developments in Portugal in 2012, women earned less 18, 5 % than men and that in 2021, less 13, 1 %, still in 2021, this remuneration difference reached an average of 153 €, reaching 600 € among the upper tables. Finally, it is important to note the work of the Act, within the scope of this law, and the Working Conditions Authority, as already mentioned today, notified this year 1540 companies which have shown the existence of remuneration differences between men and women, in order to present plans for the evaluation of these same differences.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. There is certainly much to do, ladies and gentlemen and dear Members. We count on the government and entities such as the ISCED and the ACT, which have been mentioned here today, for a joint work to combat the inequalities that persist in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u17	Let us now see if a different member of the Bureau can meet the times of intervention. Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I thank the Block on the Left for the scheduling of this current debate on gender inequality in the world of work. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is a country of contrasts. Generous and advanced laws abound that contrast with archaic and atavic realities. The area of equal opportunities between women and men is paradigmatic in this context, both at the state level and at the level of companies, trade unions and parties. The Constitution provides for the promotion of equality between men and women as one of the fundamental tasks of the State and prohibits gender discrimination, and governments have legislated in this regard. However, in order to overcome the inequalities of opportunities cemented in the social fabric, a more comprehensive and more targeted political will is required. We know that there is a positive correlation between improving the organisational and financial performance of companies and the number of women at the top of these companies. However, what is observed is the reluctance of many companies to adopt measures that allow them to take advantage of this factor. Unfortunately, in the 21st century these debates are still needed, and we cannot, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, lower your guard on this matter. [[PSD applause.]] Let us start by recalling how innovative our Constitution was, adopted on 2 April 1976 — it did 47 years — when it introduced Article 13. the, entitled « Principle of equality », even at the time there were only 15 women Members of Parliament in 230 Members. In the revision of the Constitution in 2001, it was included in Article 9. the, entitled « Fundamental tasks of the State », a point ( h ), which indicates, as one of those tasks, the promotion of equality between women and men. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 21 years have passed and, of course, this task of the State has not been accomplished. It is enough to look at this House and we find that this great plan of equality between women and men is missing here too. [[PSD applause.]] In the world of work, gender equality is such a big or greater challenge, but we will not give up. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion is not new. I would like to remind you that in the PSD and CDS government many have been the measures developed in the field of promoting equality in the labour market. Four resolutions of the Council of Ministers were adopted in order to ensure and promote equality between women and men in the labour market in areas such as the balanced participation of women and men in business management bodies, equal pay and sexual segregation of the labour market. For the first time in history, meetings were held with the Standing Committee on Social Concertation, particularly in 2012, 2014 and 2015, devoted to gender equality in the labour market, I know what I am talking about, because I was present at the time as President of the UGT Women's Commission ( General Workers'Union ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the persistent inequalities in the world of work affect mainly women. There are many reasons for the existence of these inequalities, but we can point out that one of the most important factors is the inadequacy of the policies of reconciliation between professional and family life. Unfortunately, gender disparity in employment, in the labour market, is much more serious for workers with children and dependent families. Wage disparity between men and women accumulates throughout active life, becoming a disparity of pensions between women and men, resulting in a higher risk of poverty and social exclusion for women, especially in old age. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the diploma on decent work, approved only by the votes of the PS, was another missed opportunity. [[PSD applause.]] It was a law passed in a closed circuit, which closed for social consultation. Workers and employers were not heard, although they were interested in the process. We're talking from the inside. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a famous statesman said for his resilience capacity — I mean Winston Churchill —, success is the ability to recover from successive defeats, without losing enthusiasm. As long as we believe in our cause and maintain the will to win, fate will be on our side. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u19	In order to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is an election day for the extreme left and its subjects. It is the day when they can marry the class struggle — boss/worker — with the fight of the sexes, of women against men. We already knew what they were coming: truncated data, half-truths, without mentioning the real problems and, above all, without bringing proposals. Let's go to the data: the employment rate does not vary by 1 % between men and women. Nor is the unemployment rate. There are more women employed on behalf of others with permanent contracts than men. There are more men than women with temporary contracts. In the Public Administration, there are even more women than men, and women on average earn more than men. They will ask, then, where is the truth? Isn't there any inequality? There is. Both in the public and in the private, there are many more men than women in top and chief places, and the wage differences and benefits that come from there are visible. What is the real obstacle? It is maternity, it is family care, it is the difficulty between reconciling work with family life. [[PSD protests.]] Women see their possibilities for promotion, wage increase or access to top positions conditioned by maternity leave or for the time they spend on their children and families. All of this adds up to the end of life and sees its reforms as 40% lower than men's reforms, due to the fact that the contribution career is considerably lower, due to the fact that this society does not recognize how much time these mothers spend on the service of their own and on the service of societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u22	The arrival has already presented a proposal to correct this profound injustice and recognize and value the role of the woman. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Forty years later, the question we cannot ask is, why have you here never solved this? Women postpone the birth of their first child due to lack of financial stability and lack of employment stability. Women feel compelled to choose between being mothers or successful, as if having a dream job was a bottle to measure what it is to be successful. So the conversation today shouldn't be about whether women are in as many places as men; it should be about whether women, being mothers, entrepreneurs, employed on behalf of others, all this simultaneously or just one of these options exclusively, are where they are and play the roles they play because they want and why they can do so. But unfortunately, women cannot always choose. The left one wants it that way, because if we're victims, if we're dependent, we're subservient and we're kneeling. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But neither I nor any woman have to kneel in front of the left, who wants to bring to our schools and labor spaces mixed bathrooms, knowing that in the countries where these girls and women are being implemented are being harassed and raped.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u24	Neither I nor any woman have to kneel to the left politically correct, which allows biological men to compete with women in sport, in the fashion industry, in theatre, in art, in culture, and cancel the voice of women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Neither I nor any woman have to kneel to the left clothed on the right, which, when a new woman speaks in this Parliament, says: « Grows and appears. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] Neither I nor any woman have to kneel to those who have become accustomed to being in power for so long, with all the vices that this brings, to this rotten left that no longer to hear what we say; simply interrupt and limit the freedom of expression of those who do not think like it. And then, if we react to injustice, before what is infamous, they tell us: "Be quiet. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] My dear ones, if Portugal has hit the bottom, if Portugal has reached where it has come, the responsibility is yours, and do not think that they can shut us up. Don't ask us to shut up! That no daughter of April compromises your freedom of expression. Never shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u25	In order to speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Castro has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have little time for such a deep topic, with diversity of situations and contexts, in which a simplistic and one-off attitude does not solve, causing more distortions. We have to go to the causes, and that's where we have to work. In many cases, inequality is addressed as a problem of equal results, but this is deeply wrong, and its promotion is itself an inducer of injustice. It often compares what is not comparable. We will highlight a set of problems: persistence, in society, of roles that are expected of women; persistent prejudices; rigidity in a labour market that makes it difficult, for example, to get out of situations of abuse or oppression; difficulties of re-entry into post-maternity; little culture of flexibility and partial hours to reconcile various lifestyles—although there has been some openness, recently, in terms of telework, which obviously does not apply in all professions. We have a poor economy, with low coverage of social responses to the elderly and disability, in which women assume the role of caregivers. We do not have a rising economy or a culture of flexibility and diversity. To this add anxiety factors to maternity. The solution is not to try to equalize what is different; it is to guarantee equality of choice and opportunity, both for men and for women, and to respect them. This improves through various routes, with licenses and schedules that allow better management between work and the family. It is notorious that, in professions where this happens, there is more parity. In addition to the law, there is a practice and there is a need to fight against a culture that benefits decision-making on an informal basis and often in closed logic. Unfortunately, we watch, and it must be said, many realities like the so-called "Bollina clubs", where the woman does not enter. This has a harmful effect on choices, promotions and informalities in companies. These are not unfounded perceptions or personal beliefs. Let us look at examples: in countries and sectors where this does not happen, there is more parity, in times and in professions. In countries where, for example, the woman, at the end of the afternoon, goes home and the men stay more than two or three hours, there is less parity. It is not just the extension of working hours; socialization, dialogues, all underlying mechanisms are also involved, every time this happens. They note in the following result of the study, credible and extended, of the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation: almost all women with experience in the labour market agree with the statement that women have difficulty in progressing hierarchically because most companies are run by men and they prefer to promote another man. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is the law, another thing is the practice. Transparency in decision-making criteria is fundamental, but we cannot treat what is different as well. There is a cultural dimension, for example, in unpaid domestic work, in the work of caregivers, formal and informal, and in education, which are still women's tasks. On domestic work, what the data — in my view, almost disturbingly — reveal is that culturally, there is no progress in the new generations. As for the role of caregivers, we cannot ignore the fact that we are a country where workers have more dependent on them, whether children, elderly or people with disabilities. We have a state that has no social responses. We remember the coverage rate of 12 % for the elderly and, contrary to what the PS said, there is no coverage rate and early childhood support services. More: the state has a caretaker's view of women, being the daycare centers seen as support to women and not as part of the child's development. In conclusion, I refer to an important point that no one ever talks about, which is the specific difficulty of women as liberal professionals. They have difficulties in maternity, they have no safety nets, they are dependent on themselves, and all this is reason for disincentives to seek their own financial emancipation. We must therefore look at this whole problem, the causes, the restrictions, the motivations, and work at this level, because each person has to be free in his or her choice. And more: in practice, in culture, in coherence, you cannot be harmed either by being a man or by being a woman. We must also fight against the prejudices and pre-determined roles that society says we must have. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u27	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera. There is a prize waiting for anyone to be able to contain himself in the regulatory time of intervention. [[Laughing.]] Let's see who wins it today. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u28	What's the prize?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u29	It's getting harder and harder!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u30	Mr President, I will try to respond to the appeal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : « God, Fatherland and Family » guided Portuguese society until 25 April 1974.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u31	But what's the problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u32	In fascism, this was the design that guided the Portuguese State, the Portuguese family, the values and society of then. There was hunger, misery, a total delay. Most of the Portuguese population was illiterate, which was a fundamental element for submission and oppression.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u33	It's like North Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u34	The rights were very few for all the people, but for women, then, they were even non-existent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u35	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u36	Work outside the home was seen as a threat to this existing family model and was significantly less paid than that of men. The Revolution was done, women fought a lot; women did the revolution, reminding us that nothing we have guaranteed. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] And things have actually changed. The professions prohibited for women have ended; the rights of husbands to put and dispose of the working life of women have ended; maternity rights and a set of social rights have been acquired; it has been defined that, for equal work, equal pay. Women have rights in the law, they are equal in the law. Women and all citizens are equal, regardless of what our Constitution says, gender, age, ethnic origin and sexual orientation. But there's still a lot to do. We know that equality in law and in life is not yet a reality in women's lives. The truth is that women now occupy the world of work. There are, in fact, sectors that are highly feminized, in which the presence of women is overwhelming, such as education, health, social support activities, housing, restoration and similar. In the European Union, for example, it is estimated that 80 % of all employees in supermarkets and 95 % of workers in household cleaning and household aid are in fact women, but in public administrations too, more than half of the workers are women and, for nurses, there is an overwhelming rate of 83% of women. This tells us what? You want to ask: what do these professions have in common? Who, then, are the enemies of equality? And we answer: the enemies of equality are those who put these professions to be poorly paid, these women to have a job with little security, with precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u38	The enemies of equality are the degradation of women's lives and working conditions, which are the most at risk of poverty and are the majority of the unemployed. Women's enemies are low wages and wage discrimination. The disparity of monthly remuneration, although in fact it has been reduced, has been reduced slightly and remains at very worrying levels. Nearly 30 % of women in the private sector have only the national minimum wage. The enemies of equality are precariousness and unemployment, which make all the rights in the law cannot be exercised, because it is not enough to have the rights entered, it is necessary to have confidence, the security of the powers to invoke before the master. So the enemies of equality, the enemies of women, are in fact right-wing politics,... [[CH and PSD Member Protests Emília Cerqueira.]] ... the policy that deregulates labour relations, that debalances power relations in society. These are the policies that deepen inequalities. If we do not face this reality, if we do not change the irregular schedules, the use and abuse of forms of precarious recruitment, if we do not raise wages, if we do not guarantee respect for the rights of motherhood and paternity, if we do not guarantee social support, we are not taking any steps towards equality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u39	The next attempt belongs to Mrs Isabel Pires, who will intervene on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u40	It's the prize now!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u41	Mr President, Mr State Secretary, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs Minister and Mrs Members: There is, as far as gender inequality is concerned, one should look at the State and the Public Administration. And back in 2020, I would like to start with an information that at the time the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality, Rosa Monteiro, gave an interview to the Newspaper. When asked about the average gender wage difference in the public sector, his answer was: « I don't have that figure ». This interview was 2020, but we are already in 2023, and the obvious question is whether the government already has that information today. We can look at the data, as we have already mentioned, and realize that the data do not tell us the whole story about the effective gender inequality in the world of work, in general, but I believe it is important to look, in particular, at the public function, because the State has the obligation and duty to set an example, also in pay equality. For this reason, if we come to certain examples within the public service, there are several professions that — as has already been mentioned — are highly feminized, such as the professions of auxiliary educational or auxiliary medical action. If we go to the area of education and check the part of non-teachers, we find that there are seven times more women than men. In health in general, we may be talking about around 78, 3 % of women. over the past few years, the government has been putting an end to the specialty of certain careers that are effectively occupied by women. This also means the devaluation of their wages and, therefore, in this case, we will continue the cycle of gender inequality. The first question that I leave in this debate, and that we hope it can be answered, is whether the state house, i.e. the Public Administration, already has — since in 2020 it did not have — data on effective wage inequality. The second question is: how are you working in 2023 on these same data according to what has been approved? However, we have another problem in the Public Administration, which seems serious to us and for which we have been alerting in hearings—still this week we have done so—and that has to do with SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration) and how it will create and perpetuate these inequalities. This is because SIADAP, being an evaluation system that is highly subjective, unfair and has only served to create inequalities, is also a tool for assigning variable remunerations, for example, to one of the most subjective criteria, which is that of attendance. in this context, we know that women are the most affected, for example, when they have to accompany a family member to the doctor or when they need to provide care to the family and these problems also occur in the Public Administration. We need to realize that we are fighting these causes within the public service, just as we must ensure that wage transparency also exists in the public service itself, since what is reported to us is that, in many cases, it does not exist, thus not allowing union work to be done, or otherwise, in order to fight for this wage equality. Finally, we have to check how the law itself, which is not yet regulated, can effectively be applied to the Public Administration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u42	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I would like to begin by thanking the Left Block for bringing us this subject to debate. In fact, it's all right for those who don't want to change the status quo. It's all right for those who find comfort in the patriarchy and its disaster, which still persists in our time, but the truth is, for women and for the gap of inequality that persists, no, it's not all right. We have seen this not only in wage inequality, because we will have to wait until 2052, i.e. more than 30 years, so that we can have the mean wage balance between men and women, but also because we continue to see women being pushed into non-executive positions or the sphere of family life. With regard to maternity leave and parental leave, what has been advanced in the Dignified Work Agenda is not enough and does not meet what has been done in other countries. More ambition is needed, so that there is no real discrimination, including for pregnant women. In 2022, on average, three pregnant workers or recent mothers were dispensed daily and, therefore, we have to fight this phenomenon. Wage inequality has a spectrum and an impact on the various dimensions of our life. Women have no access to public and political positions, are underrepresented, and are often also discriminated against and treated in a misogynistic way, including within this House, as recent episodes have shown us. Therefore, the history of women's work has been a history of overcoming, for which we are all summoned. In neighbouring Spain, domestic work has also been recognized as a work to be paid. The NAP will enter into a legislative initiative in this regard and we hope that the government and the rest of the banks will be available to follow us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u44	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares to speak on behalf of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a theme for democracy and if there is a theme for progressive policies, this is because this is the theme that tradition does not resolve, before, worsen, and that the market does not resolve, before, worsen. The wage difference between men and women in Portugal is still more than 13 %. It has fallen, it is true, in some sectors, but there are other sectors, even those qualified, such as education, where it reaches almost 20 %. Free or longer day care for the family are measures that are good for all workers, but mainly benefit workers. However, in addition to wanting equal compensation for equal tasks — at all levels, in all sectors and in all positions — we need to think about those professions that are very feminized and where, globally, they are wrong. We just open our eyes, when we arrive at the Assembly of the Republic, to see who performs the cleaning service in the Assembly of the Republic, every day. The proposal we make is very simple: professions that are feminized at more than 90 % and that have low incomes must have extraordinary compensation, i.e., we must correct injustice, not only in each sector, but benefit from the feminine and poorly paid professions. [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u46	We will now end the first round with the intervention of the Government, which belongs to the Secretary of State for Equality and Migration, Isabel Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Left Block for bringing this very important issue to debate, also taking into account the importance of discussing this issue. Given how much work we still have to do, it is important, however, not to lose sight of the course that Portugal has taken in this area in recent years. The last time I had the chance to be here with the ladies and the ladies. Members, he recalled an index just published by the newspaper The Economist — the glass-ceiling index — which placed Portugal fourth, only surpassed by Iceland, Finland and Norway. This result was only possible because, while in the time of the right-wing government, Mrs.... Lina... [[Pause.]] Mrs Lina Lopes, I'm sorry, I didn't remember your last name, which I'm so sorry, because, as you know, I have a lot of consideration for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u48	We all have!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u49	Lina, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u50	As I was saying, while the right-wing governments adopted resolutions of Councils of Ministers, it was the PS governments, and the Socialist Party, in this House, that adopted instruments that truly gave legal strength to these decisions. The truth is that it was with the PS governments that passed Law No. 60 / 2018, mentioned here, on equal pay between men and women, that law that allows, Mrs.Joana Mortagua, transparency, knowledge and dissemination of the results that allow us to be here today, to do this analysis. in the same way, it was with the governments of the Socialist Party that passed Law No. 26 / 2019, which stipulated the regime of balanced representation between men and women in the executive staff of the Public Administration, which allowed us to make very significant progress over the last 7 years. It is important, however, when we look at this matter, not to lose objectivity. What I mean by this is that it is a problem that is too comprehensive and serious, that cannot be treated with any slightness. Moreover, that is why the European Union, the European Parliament, approved last Wednesday, and will now be submitted to the European Council — the Directive on equal pay, which Portugal will naturally transpose into innovative aspects, because, in fact, much of the matter in this directive is already integrated into national legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to bear in mind that there is still a 'overrepresentation' of women in the areas of work which pay the lowest wages. In this context, it is important to take into account two of the priorities that the Government has set. The first concerns the increase in wages, not only the minimum wage, but we are also working for the increase and the rise of the average wage. This measure and the set of actions that have been developed in this sense are not alien to the course that Portugal has made over the past few years. Nor will it be foreign—and we hope that the results will be consolidated every year—all the work we have done to eliminate the "overrepresentation" of men in the areas that pay the best wages, which are precisely the areas of information and communication technologies and the areas STEAM ( Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Mathematics). However, there are other extremely important measures which will be reflected. It has been mentioned here, in general, by all political forces, that one of the reasons for this wage difference exists with the fact that throughout Europe it is women who enjoy the most days of parental leave for the care of dependents. Now in this respect Portugal has shifted from a share rate of parental leave of 27, 5 % in 2015 to a rate of 43, 8 % in 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was an extraordinary climb, close to 20 percentage points, which you will have — yes! — a very important impact, not only on women's wages, but on the amounts they will receive in the reform. In fact, the pay gap, when women move to retirement situations, is something that can only be resolved during the working life of women. Once my time is about to come to an end, I think, I wanted to remind Mrs. Deputy of the Arrival,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u51	Rita Matias!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u52	I wanted to remind Mrs Rita Matias — thank you for reminding me of your name! — that their attitude of subservience to the patriarchy, disguised as modern, does not deceive anyone in this House. We know very well that, when it comes to power, the first thing the extreme right does is to narrow and cut women's rights and the rights of other minorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You won't pass, Mrs. Member, your speech. [[Protests by CH Deputies Pedro Pinto and Rita Matias.]] Look, you can go to high school Trucks, you can go to schools all you want,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u53	But is school yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u54	... distribute propaganda in a space that is and which should be available for democratic dialogue, that your message will not pass. I repeat: it won't happen! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u55	But is she a school owner now? Oh, my God! You are the owners of the ISCTE! [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u56	I also wanted to say that I find it extraordinary to Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative to go up to that pulpit to talk about social status.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u57	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u58	The gentlemen. and the Liberals, who want to destroy the social state, will say there is no social state? Oh, my God! [[He's lying!]] O Mrs. Deputy, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u59	Liar! You guys ruined the social elevator!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u60	Coherence is necessary, consistency is necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u61	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u62	You guys messed up the social elevator!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u63	The measures that you have successively presented in this House are to destroy the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that this is a matter that requires by the ladies and gentlemen. Members, reflection and action to allow not only to reverse the situation where we are, but to prevent even more adverse effects from occurring. I am talking about the digital intelligence tools used in recruiting workers, who are already completely sent out by gender stereotypes. It is in these matters that we must act so that the situation can continue to improve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u64	We shall begin the second round, speaking on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romualda Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u65	Mr. President, I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Gender inequality in the world of work, within the framework of migrant women, refugees and asylum seekers, presents one of the greatest challenges in the protection and promotion of women's rights. in an increasingly ethnocentrist world, the difficulty of identifying the other in us, in accepting the difference without reducing to stigmas and stereotypes, becomes for many a phenomenon difficult to face. in this bench of the Socialist Party we will continue to face these challenges with determination, because they are the foundation of Portuguese democracy, constitutionally consecrated as expression of human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The migration of women today is no longer the way it was in the past, in which the man first emigrated and, later, the woman and the children, through family reunification. They migrate for their free will in search of better working conditions. Many of them have a highly qualified profile, although they often work in activities that require low qualification. Eleven out of every 100 foreigners with higher qualifications have a low-skilled job—in the case of Portuguese, four out of every 100, data from the Annual Statistics Report of the Observatory for Migrations of 2022. According to the same source, the proportion of women of foreign nationality in the total foreign population living in Portugal accounts for 48, 5 %. They are younger and active, contribute to strengthening the young and fertile layers of the population and to attenuating the aging of the country. In 2021, 13, 6 % of births in Portugal were foreign mothers. They tend to focus on the less sought sectors of activity by Portuguese, particularly in less qualified, more precarious professional groups, with less pay, such as industry and services, especially in domestic work. Without immigration, some sectors of activity in the Portuguese labour market would be in collapse. There is no question about the fundamental role immigrant women play in improving labour market efficiency. The inequalities that immigrant women are target, based on sex, often interact with other forms of discrimination, such as religion, ethnicity, skin color, age, disability, and can accumulate in the same person several of these discrimination factors, which cross and enhance. In the report, representing 74 % in industry and services, where work is carried out by immigrant women. The Government, through the High Commissioner for Migration, has since 2019 a team of projects on cross-sectional inequalities with the aim of promoting and contributing to the development of policies and measures to integrate gender-sensitive immigrants, focusing on where inequalities are in line with international instruments and recommendations, including Agenda 2030, and national instruments such as the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination, the National Plan for the Implementation of the Global Pact on Migration, the National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination 2021 - 2025. They all include measures that contain actions to combat inequalities, in order to develop positive public attitudes towards immigration. The Dignified Work Agenda is an opportunity for the appreciation of immigrant work. They're the ones who have more precarious jobs and earn less. The criminalization of undeclared work in the Dignified Work Agenda greatly contributes to improving the working conditions of immigrant women. I'm done with a note of hope. Immigrant women, although in situations of greater vulnerability, are also agents of change, bring added values to Portugal. We are all Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u66	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : First of all, I would like to thank the Bloc once again for bringing this important issue to debate. It is a subject which, unfortunately, we continue to debate, year after year, but the problems continue to persist, inequalities continue to exist, when almost 50 years after April it should no longer be necessary to bring this matter systematically to this House. This is the main regret. I would like to express one more regret about the position of the Secretary of State who does not recognise that there is an ongoing work of all parliamentary groups and of all banks. [[PSD applause.]] This is those subjects in which all parties have always joined together, with their different views on equality, yes, with different solutions, yes, but all working in the same direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u69	Do not recognise the path open by the PSD and the PSD Government in 2012, 2013, 2014, and in 2015, in particular by amending the Labour Code, which has allowed women to care for their children under telework, and which is a fundamental change to equality between men and women in the labour market,... [[PSD applause.]] I can't help but express this regret. This is in a debate where we should all be united for the same purpose, which is equality between men and women in the labour market. Yes, a lot has been done in this area, but unfortunately, and that is why we are here today, much more is needed to go. And it is necessary because we have a wage inequality between men and women of 13, 1 %. It is good to remember that we are talking about basic wages and not, as the PSD intended, of the whole remuneration, because this increases even more inequalities, due to lack of transparency in the wage mass between men and women, moving them to around 16%. It is not admitted that in 2023 we are still here discussing 16% wage inequality between men and women, because it is the average and effective inequality that exists between genders. Talent and competence must be the criterion for the differentiation of wages, and cannot be the difference between men and women. [[PSD applause.]] But the government has also failed and failed, in particular by not creating conditions where there is more inequality, which is in access to top careers, administrations, liberal professionals, where flexibility is needed, because one cannot live at a pace of 9 to 17 hours. These women do not have the support of the State to have a safeguard, a back-up, including daycare, support, time flexibility to take care of their children, which does not allow them to climb careers in the same way as men. This is the true patriarchate that still prevents women from going up and making progress in their careers as they deserve and how their competence and talent should enable them, what continues to happen and, indeed, because of the lack of government responses, which is slow, very slow and does not have a modern view of these issues. [[PSD applause.]] Using, as you have used, the Dignified Work Agenda as the alpha and the omega of all the change in reconciliation between work and family life is little, very little, Mrs. Secretary of State. We really liked to see the government listening to the institutions, civil society and women — liberal professionals, entrepreneurs, leaders, both in public and in private — that need effective answers, because they are, Mr. Secretary of State, that every day have to deal with the vicissitudes of a society that thinks they are the caregivers, who have to abstain from work to care for their children, who are the informal caregivers of their sick relatives. They are the ones who continue to be the great discriminated against. And it is not the dignified work agenda that gives them an answer, because unfortunately, as you see, no one considers that it has been heard about them, just listen to what has now been said by the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) and the bosses about the answers given there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u71	So there is a lot to be done, but the first thing to do a job, Mrs Secretary of State, is to recognize what is needed and not, as we have been accustomed to, to continue with this position of the 'we know' — alone, isolated, alien to reality and the one who is the real push of society. This year has been a good example in these examples of a government that does not hear, does not listen, that is blind and deaf to the one who is the real push of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] The government must listen, so that men and women do not need to be in this struggle that seems to be fueled by political power. on that day, they have the PSD for all these solutions, but so that we do not return to these debates, year after year, with a hand full of nothing, because, in fact, the men and women outside are hearing us continue to be victims of this discrimination and that is what has to end. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u72	In order to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ventura has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u73	Mr President, Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: PS always has the same argument and strategy. When the matter does not please you or when you have failed to resolve this matter, it is the patriarchate, the "God, Fatherland and Family", racism, xenophobia and the rest, which always serves for everything, less to hide the hand of failure and corruption. As we already know that this is the case, Madam Secretary of State, I think there is no greater example of patriarchy, a greater example of condescendence, a paternalist attitude than that which the Secretary of State today had here, saying, of a position of power, of State Secretary, for a young Member, the youngest Member of this Parliament, what she can and cannot do. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Equality and Migration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u74	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u75	Madam Secretary of State, to us, at the end of the day, the Secretary of State will never say what we can or cannot do! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Equality and Migration and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u76	Have respect and hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u77	I know you don't hear well, but if you're used to giving these orders to young women, you might have a bad way of life and you should learn something before you're political in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. Secretary of State, do you know what the statement is? "Whoever says what he wants to hear what he doesn't want" and now he will hear a lot of what he doesn't want to hear! Mr. Secretary of State, do not come here with the patriarchate, with God, with the family and with everything you do or want or would like it to be, when the truth is that this gap between men and women has increased in Portugal. This gap between men and women has not stagnated in Portugal, including in the Public Administration, at the top level, and the PS, which has been in government for seven years, has accused the right to dismantle the social state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u78	But, Secretary of State, who has dismantled the social state? Who's put the National Health Service at the door of the crash? Who has ended the protection houses for women victims of domestic violence in all municipalities? Who has not permitted the funding of municipalities to combat domestic violence?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u80	Who is it? Is it the PSD? Is this the Liberal Initiative? Is that enough? Don't! It has a name: it is the PS and it is the socialist government! I repeat: it is the PS and it is the socialist government! [[Congrats from the CH.]] You're here, Secretary of State, you're here. The speaker showed a news story. I will read to him: "Reducing wage differences between men and women almost stagnated. » You are here, Secretary of State. You can read a little press from time to time, it doesn't hurt. Instead of reading only the official organs of the Socialist Party, it would be good to read a little of this. [[PS protests.]] But then, Mr President, I also refer to the bipolarity in the Socialist Party which led the proposal of the Arrival, which wanted to support companies that hired women with children up to the age of three—chumbada—; the proposal for women who wanted to opt for maternity with tax benefits and protection allocation — chumbada — and even the proposal for domestic work to be counted for the purpose of reform, an innovative proposal that we have made — chumbada. My lords, then, don't come here to talk about this and that. They assume: "We are a shame and we failed women. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's all. That's all and nothing else! It was assuming that. Instead of coming here with the New State, with Salazar, with Marcello Caetano and with the Coelho Steps, it was to assume: « We failed. We're failing at everything. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u81	Salazar, Marcello Caetano, Steps Rabbit. That sequence was interesting!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u82	Also notice, if you're failing at all, what was the problem of failing at one more thing? There was no problem because it's always been like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u83	Yeah! It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u84	Finally, Mrs Romualda Fernandes, I listened carefully to her speech and liked the part in which the PS has overcome the differences which, at the ethnic level and at the level of migrant and immigrant women, have made sense. We agree. What I think is strange is that the PS is always systematically against our proposals on — systematically against! — the largest segment that systematically excludes, discriminates and humiliates women in Portugal, which is the Roma ethnic group. The PS has never done anything about it, it has always been against the proposals of the Arrival in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u85	But what is he talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u86	In fact, we had this week another Portuguese girl to be forced to marry in Spain...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u87	Twelve years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u88	...and the PS what did you say about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u89	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u90	Zero. What did the honourable Member say about that? Zero, because it's not politically correct. But this is the truth: there is a serious, great problem of humiliation, discrimination and involvement of these women, of Roma women, and neither the PS nor the PS Parliamentary Group want to know. It doesn't matter anymore. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Deputies Protests Romualda Nunes Fernandes and Susana Amador.]] I'll finish Mr. President, I know my time is running out. So it no longer matters, as many of the things you have mentioned about migrant women and immigrants that we should respect and welcome, but not. We allow them to go from burcas through the city, humiliated by the hands of a fanatical immigration that wants to destroy them and those who want to take rights, and the PS prefers to look aside. No, Madam Secretary of State, it is not us who will not pass. Sooner or later, it is you and your hypocrisy that will not pass away. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u91	To intervene, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u92	Mr President, I shall begin by replying to the Secretary of State, who has done a very outrageous intervention here. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, we are in a country with a rate of poverty that should give shame to the government in particular, and that you have a school that does not break social inequalities and that is making them worse and worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u94	This country is without public services, has differentiated health and education for the rich and the poor, has an unfair justice, has people with financial independence in danger and, as such, cannot be free. It is a state, a government that has blown up with the social elevator and comes here to teach moral lessons to liberals. [[Applause from the IL.]] Liberals struggle for the dignity of each person's life, for individuality, for effective freedom and do not come here to teach moral lessons. More than that, I should be ashamed of myself and sincerely say that I should be forced to do much better than what you do today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u95	So, no, we don't accept any of that. Liberals fight for social mobility, fight for equal opportunities, denounce government propaganda and, yes, we have alternatives to a better country. [[Applause from the IL.]] On the subject we are debating here, I still have some information I want to talk about. I want to highlight an international study on women and finance, highlighting some data such as: 62% of Portuguese women have no financial independence and doubt that they can reverse the situation in the future; 37% of women between the ages of 25 and 39 do not believe in achieving independence in the future, a percentage that goes up to 65% if we talk between 40 and 59 years. It is not possible to be free if we are not financially independent. This is worrying. It restricts freedom, limits choices, limits individual realization and limits the ability to release situations of oppression, whether domestic or labour, whatever they want. In addition to being an education theme, this is also a topic of persistence of cultural norms and we cannot even look at the side, analyze in the media, be simplistic, or treat as equal what is different. Let me also say that there is a lot of hypocrisy here. The subject of politics has also been discussed here. Quotas are not options. Parity in the letter of the law is one thing, contours, in practice, are others. The numbers on the bench of the Assembly of the Republic have worsened from 2019 to 2022. In 2021, neither 10 % of women are presidents of the chamber. It's just one thing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the law, it's the lists, something else is the practice. One thing is to be on the list, another thing is to be serious about decision-making. But the important thing is that the choice is because women want, not because they have to be, that they are chosen by their merit, yes, and not because they are women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u97	Not for charm, not for quotas, but because they wanted, because otherwise curiously, it would also be unfair to men. We must pursue a path of genuine intention and practice for a society of much more equal opportunities and not for a blessing of equal results, so that each woman, but also every man, can take the role he wants. Let the woman be an educator, be a top manager, be an independent worker, be a political worker, but that she can choose and that, when she chooses, she can do it. When it is called, let it be called because it is who it is, not because it is a woman, but because of its ability to carry out, of realization. Without it there is no true freedom. The path is long and, in the effective domain of each of the variables of choice, only with it comes true independence. Liberals will not give way to this fight. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I apologize for not complimenting them at the beginning of this debate. The question is whether the government will continue to look at the problem, understand its causes and not act on them, insisting on the same path and policy that deepens inequalities. The question is whether the government will continue to bet on stamps: the seal for speculation, the seal for wage inequality. For us, put stamps in the country all if this works, but we agree that this is not exactly the most effective measure. The key to this is the rights, it is the fight against precariousness and the security of being able to enforce their rights. He told us of measures such as the distribution of the licence, etc. and laws that protect women, but when you can easily go to the street, it is very difficult to assert rights and talk about rights before the employer. When you are hired in outsourcing, for a temporary job or when there is a contract to end, on time or day, as you have been practicing, when you hear "The door of the street is the maidship of the house" or "To your place there are many waiting", as many of the workers in this country have already heard, and when the workers and employers feel that there is absolute impunity for the workers in the law of work, it is very difficult to enforce the rights. It is very difficult to refuse additional work in a context of very low wages and to have time to reconcile family, professional and personal life. It is not by chance that the complaints made to ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment) — and that they are just the tip of the iceberg, we agree, because they are a small part of what happens every day — are due to the refusal to apply flexible hours, partial hours and the intention to dismiss pregnant women, puerperous women, lactating women and on leave. This is not by chance, because there is an environment conducive to women's rights abuses, to workers' rights in general, and women, as always, pay the most expensive bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u101	How are discrimination, harassment, non-compliance with fatherhood and motherhood rights and their distribution denounced? It does not complain, because it is a situation of taxation which is placed on women. How do working conditions rise when the Socialist Party and the right refuse measures such as the limitation of temporary work and outsourcing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u102	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u103	In Public Administration, there is temporary work in fundamental services and they are needed every day. In cleaning, there are in temporary work companies here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u105	How do the working conditions rise, when the Socialist Party and the right, for example, refuse to limit work at the end of the week, by shifts, at night, which grows mainly over women? When do they refuse to limit it to situations that are socially justifiable? We have had the continuing labor of fries in this country—which was defeated by the workers, it is good to remember. When do they refuse to increase the national minimum wage, which mainly affects women in this country? When do they refuse to stimulate collective bargaining, knowing that their expiry is a cut on workers' rights? We know that it is collective recruitment that achieves higher working conditions, particularly for women. The menstrual license was already in the collective contract when it was dynamized.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u107	So how do they really want and seriously combat inequality? Is it with stamps or is it against inequalities, injustices and power asymmetries in working relationships? This is the position that the Government has to take: if it continues to be afraid of facing the employers and the great economic interests or if it is on the women's side.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u109	This is the option that the Government has to make for equality and not for the deepening of inequalities in this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u110	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u111	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, having agreed that this attitude of the pedagogical State towards the wild market, which offers stamps for good attitudes, will lead us to the ridicule of offering stamps because a company pays wages to its workers or because it fulfils its obligations. There must be a time when the State must have a strong grip on the market and recognize that, whenever workers' rights and power are recognized to negotiate these rights, wage equality is advancing. Whenever the bosses are recognized to impose wildlife, wage equality and women's rights fall back. That is how it is in the labour market, as it is in any other market. Let us look at the right to housing in this country. How many women are trapped in marriages and relationships, because they don't have wages to pay an income to get out of the house? How many women are trapped in abusive relations, why do they not earn enough to have economic independence? We are not talking about mere statistical data, we are talking about an indicator and a factor of absolutely brutal gender inequality. Mrs Carla Castro comes here to say « we want women to be chosen for being who they are and not for being women», but they are women who are discriminated against. It's because they're women, it's because they're black, it's because they're gypsies, it's because they're collective identity factors that they're discriminated against. This insistence on individualizing us, all of us, will end up separating us from the struggle we have in common, which is that we are discriminated against by being women, whether we are used as cleaners or top managers. It is clear that a top manager has much better conditions to deal with his discrimination than a person who receives the minimum wage and who, even more, is discriminated against by being racialized or immigrant. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] We must therefore face this wild labour market. We need to know that a market that makes workers compete to see who comes out of work later, who shuts down the computer later, who answers the phone more often out of working hours, this market so precarious that it makes workers compete for their willingness to be abused, harms women. The lack of public services, yes, harms women. Lack of investment in health and education harms women. Women, in addition to their work, are badly paid and paid below men, have free hours and hours of work in care, at home, and it is this free work that then harms them, because it removes their willingness to compete in the wild labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u112	Where's the Block proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u113	I think we have to deal with these problems and recognize that the law that exists is not enough. It is necessary to resume collective bargaining, to rethink the regulation instruments of the labour market and also to evaluate and regulate Law No 60 / 2018. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u114	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u115	Mr President, we currently have more than 1 million and 100,000 women at risk of poverty in our country, so to speak of meritocracy, when the social elevator is deeply damaged, it is at least dishonest. We cannot continue with this narrative, which some right, above all, comes here to feed, that women can be what they want, under the penalty of generating inequality before men. The truth is that the patriarchate, the state we have had so far, has clearly pushed women into private life. It was the women who mostly stayed at home taking care of their children during the pandemic, who were the girls who were subject to a higher risk of genital mutilation, as all the studies tell us, during the pandemic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u116	And who's mutilating them? Tell me who's mutilating them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u117	... and it is women who continue to have unpaid work in their work. in this sense, it is essential that the head of the sand be removed, because clearly there is a problem that we cannot continue to ignore. It is a problem that is not left outside the walls of this House and on which we cannot continue in silence, when misogyny and patriarchy continue, even within this Chamber, to disrespect women.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u118	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u119	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to take advantage of the presence of the government today to understand the situation of some measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u120	What measures? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u121	...as the license for the family restructuring of victims of domestic violence. As regards menstrual leave, having been rejected, what path will they point out, so that there is no discrimination? As for the houses-houses for girls who were victims of early and forced marriages, which were provided for in the State Budget, what is the situation? But there is also, in addition to concrete measures, a paradigm and a status quo that must be changed. And more: when we talk about not silence, not silence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the face of misogyny itself, which also sat in this House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u122	It's a little machist say that looking at me! It's a little misogynistic.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u123	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u124	Mr President, Portugal must import — and I support and have already legislate, in some cases — all the good ideas that come from outside on women in business boards, about the fight against the so-called 'glass ceiling', but can also innovate in other areas in which we have always forgotten not those who need to drill the glass ceiling, but those who clean the floor. Speaking of social elevator is very good, but society is not fair because someone, somewhere, occasionally, grabs the social elevator. That is why I come back to a proposal that I made in the first round of this debate, and I would like to emphasize, to see if we have agreement in this House on a proposal of this kind. For professions representing women who have already stayed behind,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u125	But did you present the proposal or are you presenting it now?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u126	... that already come from generations that were created to serve or serve cleaners, less qualified, older, often immigrants, often socially discriminated against, and professions that are based on the salary scale,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u127	What about Joacine? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u128	... i.e. professions that have 90 % of women and earn the lowest wages, i.e. whether there should be no measures of positive discrimination, correction of this injustice, for those who no longer go on time, and will never go on time, to go to the board of directors of the company, whether public or private. And we should start with our house. That is, we should ask ourselves whether, every year, when we review the wages of this House... [[CH protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of arrive are nervous about everything. Maybe it's because they don't want to talk about what really matters what we see every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u129	Chiu!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u130	No, no, it's just to know what it was like with Joacine!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u131	We should ask ourselves whether, when we correct the budgets of this House, we are careful to have an index of correction of these injustices for professions which have 90 % of women and which are in the 10 % of the lowest wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u132	You talk about them, but you go through them in the corridors and don't "good morning" tell them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u133	Then perhaps the inequality—which exists at the top, it is true, and against it we fight, but it also exists at the base—it began to diminish and some professions began to be sought by men too, when they saw that they gave some royalties and some compensations, which are the right of those who stayed behind, no longer go to the time of the social elevator, will remain with lower pensions and will live in inequality until the end of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u134	Are you talking about ladies and not "good morning" telling them, and now you're having that conversation? Look what happened to Joacine! Tell me about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u135	Let us now, at the end of this second round, hear the Government, which begins by being represented by Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also began by welcoming the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for bringing this issue up the debate in Parliament. After hearing the various interventions, I think we have good reasons to see a consensus, more or less widespread, that this issue of inequality between women and men requires of all the mobilization of efforts and the attention due to seek together to improve the situation of the country in this regard. Despite more inflamed interventions that may exist, it is undeniable that the trend has been in the positive sense, of decreasing these inequalities. And that, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, is not, in fact, an exclusive of the action of the Government of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u137	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u139	...is a value of the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u140	All of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u141	... and of all those who have had intervention and, above all, governmental responsibilities in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u143	You can beat your hands! [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u144	But we must all be aware — and I think this has passed from the various interventions — that the problem still exists, and Mrs Joana Mortagua stressed this aspect in the various dimensions to which I believe I also referred in the initial intervention. Although today we really have a wage disparity which under Eurostat is already below the European Union average,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u145	But these numbers are false!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u146	...we have a lot of work to do. This work must be concrete and, in practice, with actions and measures, especially in entities with supervisory and intervention powers in this area — i.e. the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ), i.e. the ISCED (Commission on Equal Labour and Employment), to name them both — to strengthen their operational capacity, and this has been made a significant investment by the Government, so that there is greater effectiveness in the action. Therefore, we cannot remain within the framework of regulatory regulation, we must intervene on the ground and daily to combat these situations. But, as Mr Rui Tavares has said, and it deserves my agreement, in order to change very rooted situations and traditions, we must also use normative and public policy instruments to force this social transformation. And there is no doubt that this must also be a line of attack on this problem. I would like to mention, in this regard, measures recently taken by the Government which have also been mentioned, such as the measure of free daycare, which has a potential which none of us, I believe, can deny. Measures such as the free daycare network — which has been available since September last year, 2022, which already covers 53,000 children and which we intend to cover 100 000 children in 2024 — aim to support family incomes, combat child poverty, this scourge, and promote the social integration of children, but also have a positive and important effect on the increase in equality in the presence of women in the labour market. Reference has also been made to other important instruments of a legislative nature, in particular, which are under discussion within the European Union, such as the new directive, having participated in work and discussions seeking to positively influence the options in this area. And this instrument also has important news. As the Secretary of State has mentioned, in many of these matters Portuguese legislation is already ahead, but there are innovative matters, which we will certainly follow at the time of transposition into national legislation. I give examples: job announcements will have to be neutral from a gender perspective; employers are obliged to disclose, in the job announcement, the salary range for the position in question; companies are prevented from asking candidates about wages taken from previous jobs; and, another example, contractual clauses that prevent workers from revealing how much they earn are removed. Finally, and also taking part in the speech of Mrs Alma Rivera, let us talk about the question of precariousness. There is no doubt that it has a very significant and important impact, but we have sought to have answers to this matter, from the outset, in the use of temporary work, within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda, with amendments to the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u147	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u148	This is a fundamental aspect, as well as the measures which have been worked out with the social partners and which are and are the subject of the income and competitiveness agreement, which also have their own repercussions on this matter. Finally, by passing the word to my colleague, I would refer to the issues of protection in parenthood, which are absolutely fundamental. Measures to extend parental rights, such as the creation of part-time parental leave from 120 days, provided that enjoyed by both parents, increase the full duration of the licence and also increase the allowance, when parental leave is shared by both parents, by increasing their respective allowances. The measures of the dignified work agenda will also contribute to greater equality between men and women in terms of sharing responsibilities. And this is the fundamental point. The part-time parental leave will allow parents to return to work in part-time, after the initial six months of the leave, and to extend the supplementary leave, divided between the two, in part-time. In practice, they can accompany the child in their first year of life, but continue the two assets, in the same way, in the labour market. It is important that, once again, women are not taking on this role and this responsibility, almost exclusively. Let us remember that in Portugal, the current system of parental benefits introduced in 2009 was a symbolic shift in licensing policy, insofar as it enshrined the fundamental right to work-family reconciliation in the context of a gender equality policy. This is the line we have to go through, this is the way we have to go, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this path has given positive results,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u149	But what positive results?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u150	... that, as I said in the initial speech, we should be proud and with whom we should congratulate, without which it means to lower our arms and stop fighting. We will probably not reach the ideal world, but we must fight to be ever closer to this ideal world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u151	In order to intervene in the remaining time for the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Equality and Migration, Isabel Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even before the closing intervention, I would like to conclude this debate with a fact that, I believe, is extremely positive: a good part of this House is united around this idea of continuing to work so that we can not only continue the path of progress that we have made so far, but, above all, speed up the pace of the achievements that have been achieved. I think it is always an interesting exercise, being from us a few days from celebrating the Revolution of the Claws, to remember what was the status of the woman in the light of the Constitution that prevailed during the dictatorship, what resulted for women and girls under the Civil Code, for example, particularly in family relations, or even in the world of work. It was not only the fact that huge professions were forbidden to women, it was also the very need for a man's authorization so that they could make a set of fundamental decisions for their lives, which we cannot leave as understood within the autonomy that they have to assist any individual. Allow me, however, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who point out that, even in the extremely difficult context of recent years, in which we have faced a pandemic, in which measures to avoid its consequences have had a huge impact on the world of work and on women, even in such a difficult context, Portugal has continued to make progress. And that's how it was possible this year to be recognized, as I mentioned earlier in the « glass ceiling » index with a position that places us in 4. the place. I believe that the most important note from this debate is that there is a very broad consensus between many of the ladies and gentlemen. Members with regard to the work that we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u153	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to reiterate my thanks to the Block on the Left for bringing this debate, but as the debate was under way, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, being us in April and about to celebrate the 49th anniversary of the April Revolution, it is fair that we take this time to honor the women of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To that end, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I have reminded myself of this extraordinary woman who was Maria Lamas, who paid her boldness to portray her country's women in prison, and who would do it again. There were women like the woman Maria Lamas who ensured that people like me today could freely perform political functions, with pride and on behalf of women, always improving their living conditions. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] Maria Lamas said, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, women have remained invisible for a long time. He came to show, in his life, that he does not notice in those women who live under the rubble of very humane dreams, crushed, overcome, but always tearing out new forces for the fight, all the time, from peasantry to worker, passing through the maid who enters a house when she retires from adolescence and only abandons her when she is going to bury. Maria Lamas came to talk about domestic women, anonymous workers, but valuable women, sea women, intellectuals and artists, prostitutes and single mothers, from poor to rich, from fidalga to plebeia. Maria Lamas, for two years, publishes the fascicles with the courage to write, for example, about wage inequality, the result of the evils that distort and devalue women in general, about the isolation of Portuguese women in relation to the great movement by the dignity of women in the family, at work, in politics and in society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is done with memory and is done for those who have died for us, so that we can today live in a society more equal, more democratic, more just and more humanist, as Portuguese society is. To have this debate on wage equality is to remember all these achievements and, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to do so. Members, it is to remember the work of political participation, for example, and of political representation. Recently, the Secretary-General of the United Nations made an appeal on 8 March for stereotypes to be destroyed and for equality between men and women to be a reality. It was Prime Minister Antonio Guterres who, for the first time, introduced the quotas into a national law, so that women could participate more in political life. That is why today we have gone from 25% to 40% in the law, and that is why today this Parliament has 37% female representation. It is strange that anyone who makes inflamed statements in this Chamber on equality in 12 Members has a woman. We are talking about the representation of women in political life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Public Administration has more women in the positions of the middle head. It is 52 % of women as a result of the application of the law of 2018,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... 49% in the first-degree bosses. Do we have a way to do this? We must continue to make this path. This is a joint government, also to set an example of the importance of gender in political representation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 11 % of wage difference is something that has to embarrass us, all of us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u155	But what 11 %? Oh, my God! It's 19%!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u156	...and you have to call us all to continue working to reduce the wage gap between men and women. In 2015, it was 16 % and according to Eurostat today it is 11 %. It is not a number that encourages us, but it is a number that exemplifies the work we have been doing to continue to combat wage inequality. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not with government figures, but because it is also good to remember, with the issues of TheEconomist : the indexes that translate wage inequality, parental leave, the cost of day care, access to education, head office places Portugal in 5. the place of the countries that have worked most for equality between men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We always celebrate April with the look on equality between men and women, on equal opportunities, on combating poverty. Those who are most vulnerable are also the reason for the government's public policies, and that is why we will continue to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u157	To close the debate on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u158	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members: This debate lasts about 90 minutes, and I, if I received the average wage value of a man in our country, could start this closure by saying that I ended my work day, but a woman who, for the same functions, would receive the average wage of a woman would still have to continue working. Throughout this intervention, I could be taking a coffee, relaxing, purely and simply in conversation, doing what I liked to do, and my salary was already earned, I didn't have to work anymore. But in order to win exactly what I had earned, even though I was already resting, a woman, under the same conditions, would have to work throughout the entire time of this intervention. And the question that remains is, is this fair? Do we believe that this society, which allows this, guarantees justice for all? This isn't a woman's problem. Whoever thinks that sees everything wrong. This is a problem of a society that does not see gender equality as an objective that can and should meet. Unfortunately, it is a problem we are not moving forward as we should, and that is also the responsibility of the government. For example, how can the government tell the women in this country who care about them when, since 2018, they have a law that does not regulate, that they should have already reassessed and not reassessed? How can you say that you want to fight wage inequality when you made an income agreement, of which you boast every day, with the employers of our country for the whole of the legislature, up to 2026, which has no line on the fight against wage inequality? We could say that these are few things, they are details, and that in practice the government came here to say a set of beautiful words and even had a great willingness to fight wage inequality, but it is at the crucial times that we see this reality. One more detail: the government is now boasting because it has a similar number of men and women in the Council of Ministers, and still well—and still well! But just dig a little further into this information, look, for example, at the heads of the cabinet of ministers and state secretaries, and soon dissipate inequality—so! Who is better paid in the ministerial offices? It's the men! More than 60 % of the heads of state ministers and secretaries are men. Therefore, it is not necessary to walk too far to realize that the beautiful words of the government and the good actions to stay well in the photograph need a greater exercise of consciousness to have a consequence, and from this point of view has failed much consciousness in this debate on the part of the government. Mrs. Minister quoted Maria Lamas. He did so immensely and abundantly, almost always to be gripped by the past, and in fact, the past was Dantesque. Does it scare us that there are heirs of this past here? It scares us! But we do not stand hostage to the past to combat the inequality of the present. Maria Lamas would never be happy with a law that is five years old without being regulated. Never! I would be the first to go out and say: "This can't be! Women in my country cannot live like this, in this inequality. » Do it in the past, in a much more difficult period, and would do it - now, at this moment. Would you say that it is absolutely unacceptable for the Minister, at the close of this debate, after she has heard all the statistical data, to use which one? The data of the largest researcher on this topic, Sara Falcon Casaca, which says that women's wages are lower by 21% than men's wages? He doesn't use the academy one. It does not use average data: the average wage of women is 16 % lower. Do not use this data, do not use that data. Does he try to beautify even more, even with the data of the Ministry of Labour, saying that, after all, it is 13 % the difference between the wages of men and women? You don't even do that! Not even the official data of the Ministry of Labour Mr. Minister used. You used which one? Eurostat data: 11 %. For what? To say this isn't even so bad! Open... It's wrong, Mrs. Minister! It is wrong and the government is not doing what it should, and that is why we have marked this debate. It was not to have all beautiful words — they are important, they are pleasant to hear — it was to have concrete actions that respond to wage inequality in our country. Otherwise, I will arrive now at the end of my speech and all of it will have been done in my free time, and the woman will continue to work for the remaining time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u159	We have thus reached the end of this debate without being awarded the prize for the fulfilment of the times. We will try the next current debate, which is already on Wednesday. We move on to point two of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No. 660 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Social debt regularization programme, 700 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Provides for the flexibility of the financing line « Social Investment Credit » and 701 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases the limit on the number of benefits for tax payments ( Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 125 / 2021 of 30 December ; Forty-third amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October ). To submit Bill No. 660 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), I give the floor to Mr. Hugo Carneiro, who will do the favor of coming slowly to the rostrum so that the benches can be rearranged.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moment we are going through is enormously difficult for all Portuguese, who see themselves with a serious economic and social crisis, a crisis with external causes, is true, but also due to failures in the governance of the Socialist Party. On the one hand, we have the rise of inflation and interest, which reduce the value of money, affecting the value of Portuguese income, this phenomenon which comes in parallel with the rise of the price of essential goods, of household expenses and of housing credit benefits. On the other hand, Portuguese are faced with the absurd weight of taxes and Portugal has reached a record tax burden of 36, 4 % in 2022. The Portuguese tax effort is 12 % above the European Union average, which means that for a Portuguese, paying taxes is much more expensive than for a Danish or a Swedish, due to large differences in income levels. [[PSD applause.]] The Government proclaims until the exhaustion has returned the entire increase in tax revenue in measures against the effects of inflation. It's fake. I repeat: it's false. In 2022, in national accounts, the tax revenue increased almost EUR 9 billion and what was returned was about EUR 5 billion, and therefore EUR 4 billion was to be returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u162	The state of the PS is enlarged by the sacrifice of the taxpayers. Thus, we note that the PS slows to support those who need the most while raising more taxes, despite successive PSD alerts. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to deal with this crisis situation, we must be inventive and be with the most disadvantaged and middle class, with a sense of responsibility. What we propose today shows this sense of responsibility, because in no way do we undermine the country's commitments. Data from the State General Account of 2021 show that the value to be charged in tax revenue and social security reached 28 billion euros, almost three and a half times what we injected into BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and the New Bank, or 50 % more than the value of our Recovery and Resilience Plan. This revenue represents a helicopter of money that the State has been unable to charge, and if they do not pay some, they end up paying those who have no alternative: those who work on behalf of others, the middle class. These amounts are incomprehensible and could be channelled for social purposes to those who need it most. We therefore propose an extraordinary system of regularization of tax and contribution debts, similar to what existed in 2016 and 2017, but fully affecting the revenue effectively added to measures to support people with lower incomes, including pensioners and middle class families. [[PSD applause.]] The proposed programme provides for those who join by 30 June to regularise debts, including in benefits, exempting from the payment of interest on late payments, compensatory interest and the costs of proceedings in the context of tax enforcement, and also reducing the applicable fines, without the need for additional guarantees. The revenue to be collected should be affected: to support all citizens who are in active life and earn up to 3. the scale of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) ; to support all pensioners and pensioners who receive a pension or pension up to around € 1200 ; to reduce the IRS to the 4. o, 5. it's 6. the income step; and the temporary reduction of electricity and gas VAT to the minimum rate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we give a unique opportunity for anyone with tax and tax debts to be able to pay voluntarily, allowing the State to have greater capacity to implement a true redistributive policy. The expenditure that will be incurred with this programme is fully offset by this revenue, without Portugal's public finances commitments being shaken. We therefore call on the parties to approve our project, in favour of an effective social and redistributive policy. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u163	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. To submit Bill No. 700 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social sector entities have been the poor relatives of the anti-inflation measures of the government, not because of lack of proposals, because both the NAP and other political forces have proposed several initiatives. I would like to highlight the proposal that the NAP has already brought here, so that the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) would have a 1,7 % reduction in the contribution rate for Social Security, so that they could deduct the VAT (tax on value added) supported with the acquisitions of medical material and until the state's participations were updated in the treatment of dependent psychoactive substances. But all of this was plunged by the absolute majority compressor roll. Today we want to help the IPSS, changing social investment credit lines. This is an important tool for the development of the activities of a social and solidarity nature of the IPSS, but can very well go further. There are many essential projects that remain out of these support and that, year after year, see their continuity concerned: already funded entities are prevented from accessing a second support; it is required the net creation of new jobs following funding, even if this requirement does not make sense for the funded project; and the financing itself that is granted only part of the projects are financed. We therefore want to prevent these unfair situations from persisting. We therefore want to simplify the conditions for access to this line of credit, allowing access to a second financing by entities already financed, increasing the maximum amount of funding per entity and eliminating the requirement for the net creation of new jobs. We cannot at one time, like the pandemic or the increase in the cost of life caused by war, tell the entities, particularly the tertiary sector, that are very important, but then not to create solutions. This is more an absolute majority test. We'll see if the result is different this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u165	To submit Bill No 701 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u166	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and PAN bills raise doubts and raise a number of problems of application, which we have begun to clarify. The PSD bill provides for the adoption of an extraordinary system for the regularization of tax and tax debts, in line with what took place between 2016 and 2017, which exempts the payment of interest on late payment, compensatory interest and the costs of the tax execution process, and the associated fines are reduced in the case of full regularisation, in a single instalment, or reduced the payment of interest on late payment, compensatory interest and due costs, however, without delaying the application of fines, in the case of regularization in benefits. It does not oppose the subsidies proposed by the PSD for the regulation of tax debts, although we consider this to be an inequality in the eyes of all taxpayers who in the past have made an effort to regulate their tax debts without any associated benefit. It would be justifiable to apply this extraordinary regime to speed up the collection of tax revenue if the country was faced with solvency or liquidity problems, which is clearly not the scenario that we currently see. However, and as we have previously stated, it does not reject the adoption of such a measure. However, such consideration can no longer be made with regard to the provision of revenue for specific purposes, in particular involving a structural change, such as the reduction of IRS to 4. o, 5. it's 6. The steps. It does not seem to us to be serious or honest to assign an occasional revenue to a permanent change of character, without even knowing what the revenue will be. It is simply demagogic to be compartmentalizing social support at a time of political, economic and financial uncertainty, in which the State is conditioned in how it can apply its funds to run the various segments of society. at this specific point, the PSD decided to adopt a populist stance and clearly not in line with the current reality of the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It would be much more urgent for the PSD bill to also provide for the strengthening of mechanisms to make it more effective for the collection of EUR 23 billion of debts to the Tax Authority and EUR 5 billion of debts to Social Security, and the State cannot even identify the taxpayers to whom a total debt exceeds EUR 2, EUR 8 billion is owed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in total it is 28 billion euros, which are so much needed to restore wages, increase income and improve the lives of Portuguese families and companies. Now moving on to the NAP bill, which provides for the flexibility of the conditions of the Social Investment funding line, this appears to us to be a framed and even counterproductive proposal. Re-use of funding by an entity implies that other entities may lose access to the credit line for the consumption of the ceiling, which is a tremendous injustice for many hundreds of IPSS, mutualities, mercy, cooperatives, local development associations and other non-profit social economy entities that exist in our country and have not yet accessed funding. It is also not in favour of the increase in the financing limit of social economy projects from 95 % to 100 %, since it considers that any project, whatever its scope, will have to maintain a minimum share of equity capital in order to ensure the co-responsibility in its implementation. Finally, we believe that the withdrawal of the condition of net creation of new jobs clearly runs counter to one of the primary objectives of this line of financing. With regard to our draft law, the same provides for an increase in the limit of the number of tax benefits from 36 to 48 months, a measure that can make all the difference for taxpayers who, despite being in a financial suffocation situation, are making an effort to regulate their tax and tax debts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at a time when the country is still debating itself with an inflationist spiral and an escalation of interest in housing credit, it is increasingly important that we propose simple, transparent and enforceable measures, because for the presentation of charter measures the Government is already in place. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u167	We moved on to the intervention period. For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address especially the PSD to explain why we are not going to vote in favour of your proposal. First of all, we don't like receipts. In fact, we do not particularly like the ease with which exceptions are made to the principle of non-registration of revenue which the Budget Framework Act clearly defines, even when this appropriation is to reduce taxes and provide support to those who need it most. The reduction of taxes and support cannot be dependent on extraordinary debt recovery programmes, there must exist in itself, and, moreover, cannot mask the real shame that it is the fact that the Socialist Party leaves the country with millions of people who still need this kind of support every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u171	Secondly, we do not like amnesty, total or partial, to recover tax debts. We don't like it, first of all, because it works wrong. The last one, 2016 - 2017, will have raised only 300 million or 400 million euros more in relation to what was normally charged. Secondly, they introduce what is called moral risk, they start to compensate for not paying taxes because, sooner or later, there comes a regularisation programme. Therefore, it is really unfair for those who are fulfilling. But above all, we do not like amnesty, because it obscures and does not go to the root of the problem which, my gentlemen, has to be formulated in this way: the tax burden in Portugal is unbearable! In addition to being unbearable, it is growing because, yesterday, we learned from the data of the INE (National Institute of Statistics) that, once again, in 2022, we beat the record: now it is 36, 4 %. We therefore have a tax burden at most; we have fiscal debts at most, because the General State Account tells us that there have never been as many tax debts as in 2021, the last year reached, amounting to EUR 23 million. So we have the maximum tax burden, which proves what we have always said, the state is the one that has benefited most from inflation last year; we have maximum tax debts, i.e. the unbearable tax burden is not just a thesis, it is a reality, people are getting less and less to pay taxes; and we paradoxically have minimum tax burdens. But it is not thought that this is the kindness of the Tax and Customs Authority, which has stopped working; no, it is another sign of a public service in collapse, it is, in this case, the judicial system that cannot give reason to the penhours which, eventually, needed to do. In short, it is another day in the kingdom of the PS, another public service that does not work, another part of the social state that does not work. Therefore, PS gentlemen, I give you a suggestion, since they so much like to praise the political marketing of the Liberal Initiative : in the next election campaign, instead of « Together we follow and achieve», be true, put the slogan « maximum taxes, public services and minimum social status ». [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u172	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative presented by the PSD aims to create a programme for regularising tax and contribution debts and to allocate these revenues to measures, and I quote, « for social purposes ». And it is about this final part that affects our main criticism of the project, because tax and contribution debts are ordinary tax revenues and social security, which should have been delivered in their own time. And, being ordinary recipes which, although late, should already be in the revenue of the State budget and social security, their destiny should not be assigned to this or that measure, as proposed by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u175	The end of the expenditure of the State budget must be determined by the Government and the Assembly of the Republic in accordance with a political decision. To set aside revenue from a special programme for the regularization of tax debts to this or to that measure is to reverse this principle. Even worse, with regard to debts of a contributing nature. With regard to these, then, the destination cannot even be admitted to other purposes other than to allow social security to fulfil its obligations to workers who have discounted and who have the right to social protection in situations of unemployment, illness or when the age of retirement is reached. To divert social security debt revenue into other public policies is to contribute to decapitalizing social security and the funds necessary to carry out their duties. Then, the very article in which the PSD wants to record these revenues is not entirely credible: then the reduction of the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) — which is now not even quantified — depends on the revenue of this debt regularisation program? The same for the temporary reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of energy: then if there are not enough contributors to the programme, are these measures going on? Isn't IRS reduced? Or is this reduction, or VAT, or the social support proposed? It does not even seem to us to make sense of how this article is written. But, in addition to this issue of appropriation, we would also like to raise another aspect for this debate, and which has already been mentioned here: there are already permanent mechanisms for the extraordinary regularization of tax and tax debts. We believe that if there is a special debt regularisation programme, it should be very well directed to cover situations of social difficulties, not to cover large offenders or to encourage non-payment of taxes and social security contributions. It is that this may lead to the situation of people wondering whether there is a program for regularizing debts of x in x years, why pay the contributions at the right time. Particular attention should be paid to whether such measures mean an incentive to erode social security revenues, which are essential to ensure their sustainability and the future of pensions, allowances, which are a worker's right, which are discounted every month, and not charitable social support measures. For these reasons we will not follow the PSD initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u176	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Iglesias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to these matters, there will be no sense of caution and rationality, taking into account the history of these programmes, throughout various legislatures, executed by different governments, different parties. First of all, it should be noted that the PSD attempts to disguise what is, in practice, an instrument for collecting extraordinary tax revenue, that the different governments have done in the past — and the PS has done so for the last time, in 2016 - 2017 — for purely reasons of budgetary management for controlling the deficit. Since such a reason is no shame, the PSD tries to introduce a slurry in this bill, saying that this programme will be used to finance social support, i.e. a provision of revenue for specific purposes, in this case of social and fiscal scope, which raises many legal doubts. Although it is worth densifying these matters of a more technical nature, even questioning Article 11. this project, where VV. They point to the measures in which the revenue of this mechanism is intended to be recorded — in addition to the clear discrimination in which, in particular, for the most disadvantaged and low-income taxpayers — allow me to say that we are constantly implementing this type of debt regularisation mechanisms and programmes, leads to an absolute distortion of the tax system, leading to the fact that the only and large beneficiaries are, precisely, the large companies that make tax planning and manage, in a very efficient way, to circumvent various tax obligations that all citizens and entities have to fulfil. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And several entities have already spoken about them. They allow me to read in full the content of the opinion of the Economic and Social Council ( ESC ) on the General Account of the State of 2016 for the Special Programme for the Reduction of State Allowance, the PERES, on precisely this year: « [...] the ESC considers that the use of programmes such as PERES must duly weigh its effects and risks, taking into account that these are instruments for the extraordinary regularisation of tax and contribution obligations by taxpayers and beneficiaries who have not complied with them within the deadlines laid down by law. Debt regularisation programmes introduce unfairness and distortions in competition between agents and generate potential revenue losses, so they should be used as effectively extraordinary instruments [...]. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members also know, of course, what the results of the PERES have been for these two years—because the figures are public—which was even the subject of a hearing here in Parliament. While in 2016 some EUR 512 million were collected, with tax forgiveness in that year, in national accounts, its continuation in 2017 represented around EUR 110 million. This mechanism allowed a reduction in the deficit in 2016 to 2 %, tax forgiveness also cost the state of around 168 million euros, the majority of which is in respect of outstanding interest on coercive recovery, in addition to compensatory interest, costs and fines, which, although it has contributed greatly to budgetary results, such as the State Secretary for Tax Affairs himself—which unfortunately is no longer between us—referred to the time, there is an inherent perversion in these schemes, and was clearly a programme made out of necessity. Having said this, returning to the temptation that the PSD offers us in this proposal, a careless citizen reading it almost feels tempted to judge that it is before a new social support package, such is the way they try to hide the reasons and consequences of this kind of tax forgiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u179	It is that about 7% of the tax revenue generated by PERES, at the same time as both social security debt and tax, was the responsibility of the eight companies with the highest taxable profits in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Within the PSI 20, five listed companies joined the tax forgiveness, reaching EUR 72 million of revenue and EUR 36 million forgave. In other words, the large beneficiaries of this mechanism were large companies, including public capital,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u180	It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u181	... which is absolutely reprehensible, say they pass, because it is the taxpayers who have the ability to make tax planning, assisted by large law firms. Of course, I am not accusing the PSD of doing any favor to these companies with its proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u182	Never!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u183	...but we agree that it is not worth concealing the consequences of such mechanisms. It has to be assumed. It is an extraordinary kind of mechanism, which must be used by the State in a parcimonious way, not becoming a current management act and which also benefits large companies that go from tax forgiveness to tax forgiveness, in a situation of imbalance and deep tax injustice for the majority of taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It could not also conclude without mentioning that, as programmes for obtaining extraordinary revenue, the country now has balanced and consolidated accounts, without any need to use such records. Moreover, it has been possible to launch successive support to respond to the economic crisis with the financial capacity of the State, without waiting to seek extraordinary revenues.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u185	I will now conclude, Madam President, I am sorry. The new support measures, including support for vulnerable families amounting to EUR 580 million; the reduction of VAT for the food tank, which will reach EUR 410 million; support for agricultural production, a set of measures totaling EUR 2475 million, is the continuation of a deep concern of the Government with families and businesses, in order to mitigate the worst effects of the war that Europe is experiencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u187	Madam President, I will finish. By the end of 2022, Portugal was 4. the euro area country which has allocated more support in terms of GDP ( gross domestic product ). In short, the PSD proposal makes no sense, it does not bring any advantage to the State, and unfortunately it is a huge political intrusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u188	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the exit of a pandemic that prevented economic activity, which punished income, people faced another crisis, of a different nature, in which wages are being consumed by an upward profit of the prices of essential goods. This accelerated impoverishment and inequality process was not inevitable; it was a government choice. It is true that the government did not choose the pandemic, but chose the precarious support given during the pandemic and chose not to give health professionals what was due them: wages, careers, dignity. It is true that the government has not chosen inflation, but has chosen to ignore the profit margins of the large distributors and has chosen to shrink wages before price rises, from the beginning of the public service salaries, which had a real cut. Whenever the government chooses the deficit rather than the investment in the country—and the evidence that the government chooses the deficit instead of the investment in the country is the 3, 5 billion euros of strike that came to present, in 2022, despite the crisis and despite inflation—the discussion is no longer about the policies that change life, about the policies that give dignity, about the policies that emancipate, about the policies that allow wage increases, that allow for better living, that bring equality, that bring justice, and they become about how to get a small strike to those who struggle to reach the end of the month. The discussion is no longer how we invest the revenue of the greatest mechanism of equality and solidarity that we can have, which is the tax system, and how, collectively and in solidarity, we use this recipe to transform the country into a fairer country, and the discussion becomes how we relieve people of an excessive tax burden. This is the trap where the Socialist Party Government has placed us. We are always discussing how we relieve people's lives and never how we have policies to change, to improve, their lives. We are not discussing how we invest tax money, how we dignify the taxes we pay — by investing in education, health, public services, why it is worth paying taxes — and we are discussing why the tax burden is excessive. And the tax burden is excessive, not just because income is low, but because when people go to school and to the health center and to the hospital, they don't see the result of their effort to pay taxes. This is unfortunately the result of the distortion of the Socialist Party's governance. That said, it is necessary to relieve the tax burden, but we have many doubts that this is the best way to do it. This for two reasons. Firstly, because there is a need to separate the situation from those who cannot pay a debt — who has a problem and is arrested, because the tax authority is too strong for those who cannot pay a tax debt — from those who do not want to pay a debt. On the other hand, there is a moral risk that those who don't know that after two years will have an amnesty. Finally, we believe that the revenue of social security cannot be allocated to other services and that the principle of non-registration of revenue cannot be violated, as is the proposal of the PSD. For these reasons we will not follow the PSD proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u190	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal from the PSD is part of a reality that exists, which is the large amount of contributions and taxes to be charged, and it intends to address it to an end — at least, this is the one announced — that most of us would agree, that is, for social purposes, but leaves much more doubt than certainty. Firstly, because in the provision that makes the application of these possible allocations by the State there are support and reductions. Support seems to be temporary, permanent reductions. Therefore, this was a question that I wanted to clarify, because it seems unfair to me to be giving temporary support to those who are poorer and then to be giving permanent reductions to those who, despite all, are at the highest levels of IRS. I am not so concerned about the principle of non-registration of taxes, because it seems to me that this principle does not always have to be followed and sometimes it does give us the advantage of predictability. But this is an advantage that this proposal does not have, because it is, of course, unpredictable how much we are going to do with it. I believe that if we really want to do a debt recovery programme that has a social dimension, we must concentrate this debt recovery programme on those with the lowest income which are over-independence on taxes or social security. These must have debts lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u192	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u193	What we should not be doing is making an amnesty to the debtors who have the greatest capacity to pay taxes and then be giving only support to those who may be less.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing phase, so I give the floor to Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with the Socialist Party and its comments, I think it is impressive that the Socialist Party says there is a swallow with the PSD proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u196	And there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u197	It wasn't just the PS! All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u198	I'm flattered, it's the PS who said he returned all the tax revenue money paid more in 2022, when that's not true. [[PSD applause.]] There are EUR 4 billion that have not been returned. This must be denounced and the Minister for Finance must also be denounced, because this week he said it here in Parliament. Then the PS also tries to say that this is a measure that cannot be used correctly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u199	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u200	Mr President, how long ago was the last programme of this kind? How long ago? We are not proposing this every day and we recognize that the situation we are currently living in is absolutely exceptional. The honourable Member has to explain to the Portuguese how the PS is completely indifferent to the fact that the Portuguese are suffering from the price of inflation, the rise of interest in housing credit, and how the PS "washs hands" that not Pilates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u201	We don't wash our hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u202	That is what you are doing and within that logic "if it is good for us, if it is from the others we are against". This is the logic of the PS! Then they also talk about tax forgiveness. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u203	If it's not tax forgiveness, what is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u204	This revenue, which would be generated through this programme, must be paid by those who owe it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u205	It's called tax forgiveness!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u206	We are not saying to people: « Pay half and be free of the rest». We're not saying that! They haven't read the bill, I understand, because they have a lot to do with the bullshit they're involved in, I understand. [[PSD applause.]] Then we also forget the PS, to the many, of that RRRT ( Exceptional Regime of Tax Regularization ) program, which a few years ago approved in Parliament and which allowed some people to clean up the money they had out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u207	If they don't, they won't pay in 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u208	If they remembered this, they might have a much greater weight on their conscience. But ready, things are what they are! As for the positions of the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative and also the CFP — I will be able to say so — what do we understand? There are 28 billion euros that have not been charged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u209	But it must be!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u210	...and that should have been, and the Court of Auditors draws attention to the dimension of value. None of these parties have a solution to collect this value, but the solution proposed by the PSD is bad. This is the solution of these three parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u211	And when you hear that we're populists, [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u212	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u213	... Mr. Deputy, I almost started laughing at the bench, because that's absolutely surprising. Enough to say that the other parties are populists is absolutely amazing! [[PSD applause.]] Finally, there is no moral risk, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. If it is true that we are willing, with our proposal, to forgive interest and compensation and the costs, we do not forgive the fines, we reduce the fines. The fine is an essential element, which makes the difference between those who pay and therefore does not have to pay a fine, and those who do not pay in time and, even with some attenuation, has to pay a fine. So there is no moral risk. This measure comes in line with what, extraordinarily, has been done over time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u214	Our Secretary of State is speaking well!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u215	I'm glad you don't have an absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u216	As far as the provision is concerned, I can only record the enormous insensitivity of the parties who refuse to realize the difficulty of passing the pensioners, the middle class and those who need the most. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u217	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u218	I will conclude, Madam President, and thank you. I conclude by saying that this is a temporary measure. Until June 30th, people adhere, and the value package you can collect is applied until December this year. Therefore, there is no transition to the next year, there are no structural measures that condition public finances. We want to help people. That's our interest! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u219	What about social security? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u220	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now turn to the third item on our agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No. 491 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Sets out the rules applicable to early retirement of children educators and teachers of basic and secondary education, amending the Status of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April. To present this bill, Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u221	Let's see if this malt sits down!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Saint Augustine wrote about time: "If no one asks me, I know; but if you want to explain it to whoever asked me the question, I don't know anymore. » In Saint Augustine, time is a movement that leaves marks of its passage by people. Childhood was a time that passed through us, such as spring, summer, autumn and winter. We can also anticipate the future. But only the present exists. The rule applies to schools. The passage of time by teachers leaves unequivocal marks in the professional aging of the class: burnout, depression, demotion, discouragement, sadness, anguish, diseases. The generalized aging of the teaching class is combined and the reduction component of weekly school hours is added, depending on age, which forces teachers, often in suffering, to continue working directly with the students. These are reasons for the Statute of the Teacher Career to shorten the conditions of early retirement without cuts in the corresponding value of the pension. This is what the bill that arrives today proposes. We know that this law does not exempt us from facing the root of the problem. Phenomena such as maleducation, disrespect, disorder, vandalism, juvenile delinquency, domestic violence, among others, germinate today during the process of schooling of children and adolescents. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The school model we have is in serious rupture. The portrait-type doesn't fool. A predominantly female and aged socio-professional class is at stake, the condition of a teacher. It is from the professions that can better guarantee the dignity of the woman's condition today discussed. The problem is that everyday reality confronts this teacher with a particularly outstanding indiscipline among children, adolescents and young men, i.e., students.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u223	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u224	The phenomenon occurs in a space of privacy, the classroom. As in domestic violence, whose pattern is the female victim and the male aggressor, the spaces of intimacy are conducive to the victim's silence in order to protect his most intimate dignity. If we do not break this silence spiral, we will never restore the mental and physical health of teachers. This is where it is necessary to destroy the powerful ideological wall built by the activist progression of the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u226	If rhetoric is that of combating domestic violence and other forms of social violence, the practice of the left made indiscipline in the classroom the sacred cow of the regime. Anyone who dares to put his finger on such a rotten wound, even the classroom teachers who suffer from this problem, is brutally intimidated: « authoritarian », « racist », « salazarist », « retrograde », « lacking training ». Such inquisitorial irrationality prevents the fight against the most varied forms of social violence in its early stage, when indiscipline is born in the classroom. Later, massively educated societies, decades after decade, are unable to generate cultural transformations that involve endemic phenomena of violence. On the contrary. Domestic violence continues and with manifestations of gravity reinventing itself. Youth violence fires, we saw increased violence in sports cliques, such as criminal violence, and so on. Teachers have been making slaves shot at lions in the new Roman circus, which is the classroom. Right that's right you can never admit it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We will never defend our institutions unless we first defend teachers and schools. The institutions exist for two reasons: first, to perform a specific social function delegated by society, if any, to teach; second, to regulate the attitudes and behaviors of its members, if any, the students. For this, hierarchy, authority and order are indispensable. Either we make the school an exemplary nuclear institution or we will continue to drag Portugal to the abyss. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u227	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have today to discuss the draft law laying down the rules applicable to early retirement of children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education. But I'm going to talk about education, and I'm also expanding a little bit, just as you did the honourable Member who preceded me. We have already had an urgent debate on strikes and teachers' demands. Yesterday, the unions met again with the Ministry of Education and today, apparently, would be discussing careers. We continue to navigate in sight and we continue without solutions. We are systematically talking about these issues: a government that is exhausted, especially teachers who are also exhausted and students, who should be at the heart of the concerns and who seem to be forgotten in the midst of all this. We continue with the absence of dialogues, or with little effective dialogues, and we are in a cross-sectional rupture. Once again, we have proposals here with far-reaching measures, with which we do not agree, in particular, in the sense of children's educators, but on this subject, in retirements, in the professions of high wear and tear. We must once and for all point to structural, transversal reforms, we must look at the Public Administration and talk about what we want as a country, not as a bankrupt country, in particular of services, where the State should not fail. We have said several times here that we need to change the model of school management, of incentives; we talked about the dignity and importance of teachers. As much as everyone argues otherwise, the truth is that we are in an unattractive career. We continue with courses that are open and that don't even fill the vacancies, with courses that start with the lowest grades — they become negative. A career that should be of the most attractive and that is the most effective in the economic-social development of a country, in practice, is completely ill-treated. contrary to what has already been heard today, in the pseudo great love of the government on public services, on the social state and on social school, I would like to recall something that, this week, in a very disturbing way, we have heard, in what I call "warning calls" by the National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools and the National Association of School Leaders. In committee, we were told about the recovery of learning, expressions, and I will quote: « It is now truly beginning to feel the impact of confinement and pandemic. The implications are emerging now. These are structural learnings, which prevent learning in the following cycles. There has been a great breakdown and they are more felt in more disadvantaged contexts. “Tracker” is the word that is important to use. In students of 1. the cycle and more isolated areas, reading and writing were damaged. The students are demotivated, uninterested. We have to win the students. Do not keep on seeking. ” Teachers and students, this is the real situation we are in. We cannot look at this calmly, we cannot come here — neither PS nor government — to speak of a public school response and even less dare to say that it is the Liberals who are paying attention to public school. What we are against — and will, yes, give our cries for alarm and complain, and much — is with this government's education policy. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Germana Rocha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the biggest problems facing us is undoubtedly the demographic winter and the consequent ageing of the population. The current circumstances in which we live are largely due to the absence of consistent policies and reforms over these almost eight years of governance, current management of the Socialist Party. Today we have an aging and poor country, where the elderly and young people are increasingly behind us and in which many of these young people are forced to emigrate, looking for a future that unfortunately cannot be found in their country, which cannot retain their talent, which contributes, among other things, to the worsening of the sustainability of social security. The available data indicate that in the year 2023, 3,500 teachers will be retired, to which the 7743 who have retired since 2015 will be added. The average age of the teaching class is 54 years, which means that the rejuvenation of this class is urgent, as well as the attractiveness of its career, and for this it requires concrete solutions and not the impasse created long ago by those who rule, and without end. [[PSD applause.]] It is necessary to regain the dignity that teachers deserve, with credible proposals, set at the negotiating level, establishing bridges and consensus that meet the needs of the country and the education system, because the problem is always doubled.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u232	We need to create an attractive system for those who want to enter the teaching career, through a recruitment and evaluation regime that does not constitute a disruptive factor for those who want to choose to teach, nor lead to their abandonment and demobilization, by many, due to the lack of solutions, creating an environment that is not conducive to the recovery of the learnings that our students need so much, in the face of what they have lost in times of pandemic. This recovery will only be possible with the involvement of the entire educational community, especially motivated teachers, under the penalty of losing this crucial battle for the future of the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, training and education is a greater mission, which must be recognized as such, and therefore it is imperative to create the conditions necessary for teachers and educators to exercise fully, and for this to be fundamental — as the PSD recently proposed in this Parliament — a set of wage, fiscal and organisational impulses, such as the relief of the vast bureaucracy in schools, so that teachers can concentrate on what they know best, which is teaching. [[PSD applause.]] It is precisely this lack of conditions in the educational system, which must be resolved, which serves as a premise for the presentation of this legislative initiative, to avoid an invoking wear on the teachers, which we all recognize, but that this almost eight-year governance has not been able to solve. The PSD, as a responsible and reformist party, does not embark on easy and simple speeches, but rather on credible, consistent and comprehensive solutions, which have proved the principles of justice and equity in the treatment of workers and State taxpayers. It does not support policies that govern the implementation of measures without any planning and strategy and without the necessary weighting of its consequences, as we have seen recently, with the absence of transparency and promiscuity between political power and public authorities. Yes, it is urgent to make structural reforms in fundamental areas, such as education and public administration, and not surgical interventions, which only want to ride the current wave. [[PSD applause.]] We do not embark on proposals which do not have concrete data and rigorous analysis and evaluation, which allow us to make decisions that do not question the future of the present and new generations, through a fair, balanced and sustainable retirement regime. And for this, we do not need easy paths, we need sustainable and credible paths, which lead us to an efficient public administration and the provision of quality public services to our citizens, that education always exceeds as a fundamental pillar of a country. You can't stay on the tree, you need to take care of the forest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u233	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group by welcoming the teachers in their struggle to defend their rights, one of the most extraordinary social struggles in democratic Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u236	We have been consistent with the policies of the Ministry of Education for many years with regard to the career and working conditions of teachers. Attack on rights, their working conditions, disrespect for their teaching career status and for what the Constitution establishes as to their rights. Much is said of the physical and psychological wear that childhood educators and teachers suffer throughout their careers, knowing how this wear leads to enormous pressure and overload on the teacher and which has inevitable consequences, not only in the quality of pedagogical practice, but ultimately in the quality of education. The aging of the teaching body is a phenomenon too evident to ignore the impact it is having on the public service offering. The generation of young teachers who ensured the democratization of access to education and the increase of the public network, in the 1970s and 1980s, with democracy, will reform-CL over the next 15 years. We speak of more than 80% of teachers and educators currently in service. It is therefore urgent and necessary to rejuvenate the teaching profession, as well as the existence of measures to meet the needs that are already generated by the retirement of thousands of teachers and educators. The party arrived today with a project relating to the retirement of teachers, but we remember that in the PSD/CDS government, Mr André Ventura, like some other Members of that bench, then PSD and CDS members, agreed with everything that this government legislated against teachers:...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u237	We've been what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u238	... cuts in salaries, evidence of knowledge assessment and skills, school contract scholarship, which introduced countless injustices among teachers, norm-work that prevented the linkage of thousands of teachers, did not reposition the end of the specific retirement regime. This government has arrived — let us remember — to invite teachers to emigrate. [[The António Costa too!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u239	The arrival does not intend today to solve any problem of the teachers, it is just trying to instrumentalize them. The CFP follows the proposal submitted by the unions, in particular the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), to facilitate access by older teachers to pre-reform and retirement without penalty at the end of 40 years of service. It is perfectly fair that any worker—and therefore any teacher or educator—who has at least 40 years of a contributing career can retire without any penalty or reduction, regardless of age. It is in this sense that the project we have just submitted to this House, in which we are also expected to identify the measures and conditions that enable the application of retirement schemes relating to specific situations, including workers of the Public Administration and other professionals, such as, in particular, teachers and educators. in this context, the government has, once and for all, to restore to teachers and educators, as well as to all career workers and special categories, all the time of service provided, for retirement purposes, and, for those who have already retired, proceed to the calculation of the value of pensions. in a rule of law, do not unilaterally break social contracts, such as those that were signed with whom effectively worked and discounted for the composition of their future retirement pension. The time you worked is to count; always, everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u242	For all this, a policy is needed today to promote the rejuvenation of the teaching profession, ensuring working conditions with dignity and stability, the valorization of their career and profession, the guarantee of progress and the fight against precariousness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u243	For an intervention, Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank the party The bill presented here comes, because it allows me to deconstruct a demagogic and incongruent initiative. Demagogic, therefore, if we actually read the electoral programme of the Arrival, we do not find an idea about the career of teachers and their retirement. But now, in an attitude of political exploitation and attempting to inflame the discontent of teachers, and even of society in general, it is said that it is a self-satisfaction of those who lived two years of pandemic and then inflation and the problems of increasing the cost of life resulting from the war in Ukraine — the Arrival presents us with an initiative which is also highlighted by its incongruence. Let us see: the preamble depicts the problem with the aging of the teaching career and, among other things, talks about the problem of replacement of teachers who will retire in the coming years. But the solution they present seems to be to allow teachers to retire early. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you calling for? We do not understand the connection that has reached these two themes. For us, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and also for the Government, these issues are relevant and deserve our reflection and solutions. Still on the question of the conditions for the retirement of teachers, the solution presented by the Arrival is a solution that generates inequalities vis-à-vis other employees of the Public Administration. I recall Article 13. the Constitution, which defends equal treatment for what is equal, and unequal treatment for what is unequal. However, at no time does this initiative explain the basis for inequality in this area. I also recall in this regard the principle of proportionality as set out in Article 7. the Code of Administrative Procedure. Is the solution advocated by the Arrival the most appropriate, reasonable and proportionate? Are there any other solutions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u245	What are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u246	... that they are more proportionate for the purposes pursued, without jeopardising the rights of other employees of the Public Administration? We understand that yes, there are other solutions. in this sense, the government recognizes the nature of wear inherent in the exercise of the teaching profession, reason enough to justify the reduction of the educational component, provided for in the Statute of the Teaching Career.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u248	In addition, recognizing the special working conditions of children's educators and teachers of the first cycle and basic education, under a single-doctoral regime, the Ministry of Education began the negotiation process with the trade union organizations of the sector, with a view to changing the dispensation regime of the educational component of the first-cycle educators and teachers who are over 60 years old and 36 years of service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed solution, early retirement, brings about problems of equity and creates problems with the replacement of teachers. It is not the most appropriate and proportionate solution for solving the problem presented and it is generating an unjustified inequality, contrary to the constitutional principle of equality and therefore contrary to the Constitution. On the other hand, it is also unacceptable because the special retirement scheme for teachers aged 60 and 36 would cover a universe of 69,900 people, with a total additional financial impact of more than 9 million euros, of which more than 1 million euros would already be for the next three years. Thus, we will not be able to follow this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u249	We're not used to anything that doesn't follow our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u250	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have been accompanying education matters in Parliament for eight years, representing the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u252	Eight more years you've been here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u253	I have been accompanying the teachers' struggles, their demonstrations, their meetings, their hopes and also their disappointments with regard to the proposals presented in Parliament. I know these subjects well enough to know how to distinguish serious propaganda proposals and to be comfortable in saying that what we are discussing today is just propaganda. The problem is that this propaganda is based on a real and serious problem, which is the wear of teachers, the fatigue of teachers and the aging of teachers. This is a real problem, which the Socialist Party has promised to resolve: still Alexandra Leitão was Minister of Modernization of the State and Public Administration, when the first promise of negotiation, with the teachers, of an early reform regime was made. This promise came from another idea presented, when we discussed the recovery of stolen service time here. The Left Block proposed, as the unions argued at the time, that one form of recognition of the stolen service time could be their conversion in anticipation of the reform of older teachers, who would otherwise not benefit from the recovery of this time of service. Many years ago, this proposal returned to the negotiating table, and the government continues to ignore it. So the problem is still real. We continue to have a problem of aging, tiredness, burnout, lack of teachers' conditions. It is true that the age of reform is very advanced in Portugal, but it is very advanced not only for teachers; it is advanced for all workers. What is needed, what would be needed, was to lower it — as the Left Block defends — for all workers. We defend and will always defend reform at the age of 60 and at the age of 40, as well as give teachers the right to adapt their profession—as was also promised by the PS, for example, in relation to monodoccency, but it did not meet—to reach the end of the career with minimum working conditions, which are not those that exist today. Today, we have childhood educators with very advanced ages who continue to have to take care of entire classrooms, or even in the first cycle, etc. Therefore, there are a number of proposals that we have come to bring to Parliament which are never approved — they are repeatedly plummeted — but which could alleviate this problem. There is another question that is undeniable: if the proposal of the Arrival were to be approved, the next day, the Arrival would be doing a scandal here, because there were no teachers in schools. Unfortunately, we are in this situation because of the state of aging that the PS and the government have let the teaching class arrive. Thank you very much, and I wanted to claim my prize for the fulfilment of time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although there is growth in the number of teachers and educators of childhood who have retired or are going to reform this year, the weight of the renewal of the profession cannot and should not remain in the shoulders of those who have worked for decades, especially in a long, demanding career and enormous weariness. The responsibility for renewal of careers is not these professionals. That renewal is dependent — yes! — the value of careers, the improvement of working conditions, dignity and respect for invaluable daily work, which has been devalued over decades. It is not because of the lack of proposals in this House of the Republic that this problem has not been solved. We recall that these professionals have claimed the qualification of their profession as being of rapid wear, and such claims have been systematically raised by several professionals who are not only those of education. For reasons of justice, in order to avoid unequal treatment — which would, in fact, be essential to ensure a cross-cutting assessment of the legal framework applicable to the rapid wear professions — the NAP had already presented an initiative in this House to establish a simple working group to amend the legal framework of the rapid wear professions and to identify a list of these professions which could be classified as such. However, a measure as simple as this did not resist the compressor roll of the absolute majority. It is therefore left to know when these professions will actually be looked at with seriousness and the measures adopted by a majority who at the moment has the power and duty to make the difference for the lives of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u256	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Whether on this or on any other topic, the technique is always the same — it is the process of diabolization of the current left. « The left is bad, the left is to blame,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u258	And it is! Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u259	...let's go to the abyss! » Give a kick on a stone, blame is on the left and let's go to the abyss! This is not surprising, but I must say that something different would be expected from someone who makes his profession a teacher. Being absolute objectivity impossible, intellectual honesty must be the starting point for all of us. But each one does what he knows and can. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] The problem is when a government that is in power—with an absolute majority and therefore without the excuse of instability, having accounts that now approach the surplus, and therefore also without the excuse of debt and deficit— before the discourse of the abyss, does not present a speech of the future. The only way to respond to the discourse of the abyss is to negotiate with the teachers and say that the school of the future will be a desirable school for anyone who wants to be a teacher. That's not being done! People look at these negotiations and see that, for teachers, it's hard to get them to pay for the time they've already worked. The Government is therefore not in the plenary session, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, now that the government does not listen to us, when this majority who supports the government — rather than the other way around — revolts and says: 'Excuses have ended, must we start giving people a future'?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u260	You want to send the PS! He hasn't made a coalition yet, but he already wants to send!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u261	It is that, if we do not give the people of the future, the discourse of the abyss is imposed. So, yes, you're giving a chance for the discourse of the abyss to take place. [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u262	To close the debate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I regret that in such an intense debate, with so many ideas, I only have two minutes to try to answer everything. It's little, but it's what it is. In any case, of the interventions made, I have not heard any substance that would lead to the failure of the proposal of the Arrival. We just use the intelligence to distinguish the essentials of the accessory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u265	Those who do not use intelligence are then enfolded in explanations that do not take us anywhere. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In fact, what remains of this debate is the usual concern for the dignity of the teachers, which was shown here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u266	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u267	Everyone has already realized — here and outside — that the arrival came to definitely change the debate about teaching in Portugal, that it will never be the same again. That's why they use the arguments they use. Now, speaking to the right — for the Liberal Initiative and for the PSD — I ended up not well aware of the positions they presented. I have been in doubt whether or not our proposal is supported, but it seems to me to be consensual on the right, that the idea of school we have is broken. Therefore, we can no longer support an idea of a single, totalitarian, socialist, communist and blogger school of thought, which all this bench follows. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I say more: on the day when the right has an idea of school, on the day when the right knows that no longer wants the ideological guardianship of the left, the right has an alternative of government as it has never had. It's not an alternative for a few years, it's for generations. [[Protests by PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] So the challenge remains on the right: if you want to think about school seriously, we are here for that. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As for the left, on that side, it is the usual film of lack of responsibility, of ignorance, and I would even say worse things. They say they want to deconstruct a demagogic initiative—in the case, Mrs. Lúcia Araújo, of the PS—when they don't say one word for the idea of a broken school,... [[Laughs from PS deputy Lucia Araújo da Silva.]] ...for the catastrophe that you have created and that is your responsibility 40 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u268	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u269	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u270	I heard Mrs. Joana Mortágua say — come on, today she didn't call me drugged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u271	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u272	...because you only call what it is,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u273	You have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u274	...and therefore, as it is not black, I am free of it — that we do not distinguish a serious proposal from propaganda, that we do not have intellectual honesty. In conclusion, I just want to say this: I entered a classroom in 1991 ; I have written about teaching since 1998 ; I have published a book on what I stand for in 2003, another in 2007, another in 2013 and now I have even published another in 2019 ; and I have come to this Parliament because of the dictatorship you have imposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u276	This debate should take place, first, in universities and in social communication, before being here, but you have closed the freedom of thought at universities, in social communication and in public space. [[PS Protests and PCP Member Manuel Loff.]] So they should have been ashamed to have killed the freedom of thought. If you think you're going to make a barrier here, "take the horse out of the rain!" [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u277	Mr President, the expression you have used to characterize your colleague is outraged and unacceptable in Parliament. [[PSP, PCP, BE and PSD Members applauded.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u278	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u279	Mr President, do you ask for the floor to make an inquiry to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u280	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u281	Please, but it's for an appeal to the Bureau. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u282	"Do it" is your aunt! "Do it" is your aunt!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u283	Mr President, I appreciate the repair you made me and I apologize to the honourable Member for using the word I used.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u285	It's a worthy attitude on your part. Let us now move on to the fourth item on the agenda, in which, without time, we consider and record the draft resolution... [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u286	They need to calm down! Mrs. Members, for our government, are silent when the person presiding over the plenary is speaking is even the zero degree of operation of Parliament. If we're going to challenge that zero degree, the sessions can't exist. Whoever's presiding has the right to speak to conduct the work. The gentlemen. Members have the right to comment on what those who are doing the work are doing, but when the President-in-Office is speaking, the others listen. I was trying to say that the fourth point of the agenda is the timeless appreciation of the Resolution Project No 570 / XV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European elections initiatives considered to be priority within the framework of the European Commission's 2023 work programme. The fifth point is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask the services which open the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members to register. I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament have not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] Did everyone get it? Did everyone hear the question? Mr. Filipe Melo is fighting your computer?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u287	I couldn't register, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u288	All right, Mr. Deputies. It is manually registered, by default. I would therefore ask the services to close the quorum verification period and to advertise their results. [[Pause.]] It is noted in a formula that the law must characterize, that there were two Members in transit, that the Bureau will note. Let us then proceed to the deliberations. Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u289	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u290	Is it in the sense of communicating that, by revising the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival in the motion for a vote of regret presented by myself, he withdraws what he had presented in relation to the painter and artist Manuel Baptista?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u291	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u292	Thank you, Mr. Deputies. We then pass to the assessment of the Vote Project No. 322 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PS and PCP Members )............................................................................................................................................ I ask the Secretary of Bureau Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last April 8, he died at 87 years of age, Manuel Baptista, a multifaceted artist who developed work in the field of painting, drawing, sculpture and installation. Natural de Faro, where he was born in 1936, Joaquim Manuel Guerreiro Baptista finished in 1962 the Painting course at the School of Fines-Arts, in Lisbon, where he arrived to teach. Even before forming, he participated in collective exhibitions, exhibited in the modern art salons of the National Society of Fine Arts, held his first individual exhibition in the Gallery of the Newspaper, and was present in the II Exhibition of Plastic Arts of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation. In 1962, he went to Paris with a scholarship from the Gulbenkian Foundation and, in 1968, to Ravena, as a scholarship from the Institute of High Culture. His journey took place in several countries, particularly Germany, where in the late 1970s, he did some of his work. In his hometown, he directed, in the 1990s, two municipal galleries, the Train and the Arc, where they exhibited major names of national plastic arts, together with emerging young people. The work that leaves is varied and of complex classification, manifesting itself in various fields — painting, drawing, sculpture and installation — in a frequent tension between the figurative and the abstract, the landscape, allowing so many times to detect its Algarve, and the ornamentation, the scholar and the proseic. Manuel Baptista was an exceptional artist, distinguished with several awards. He never stopped experimenting and creating until the end of his days, being his work represented in the country's major museum collections. He had a generous personality, easily cultivating artistic complicities, which was not uncommonly transformed into friendship. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of the painter Manuel Baptista, recalling the singularity of his work and addressing to his family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u294	Let us then vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I record the presence of your wife and your son, to whom I extend my condolences on behalf of the whole Parliament. We now turn to the appraisal of the Vote Project No. 318 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Unfortunately, in memory of the victims of the massacres perpetrated by the Russian Federation in Ukraine. To read the project, you have the word Mr. Secretary Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « In the first days of April 2022, appreciably one month after the beginning of the military invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, the world was sunny and witnessed in shock the images of the massacre in the city of Bucha, in the vicinity of Kiev, territory that was under occupation of Russian troops. The international community and also the Assembly of the Republic have repeatedly denounced, since the beginning of the war, the atrocities committed against civilians, including women and children, including appeals to the International Criminal Tribunal for the clearance of responsibilities. A year ago in this House, in defence of human rights, of the fundamental value of human life and international humanitarian law, the invasion and massacres perpetrated in the Ukrainian city of Bucha were vehemently condemned. The exact number of people who have been murdered is still unknown. If one year ago the estimates pointed to at least 300 people, found immediately after the attack, it is known today that probably more than 1000 civilians were killed and tortured throughout the Kiev Oblast region. The images of Bucha shocked the world, but no less shocking are those of the massacres also committed in regions or cities such as Mariupol, Borodyanka, Zaporíjia and Donetsk, as well as other places that continue to be marked by the brutality of violence and gross violations of human rights. Reports of atrocities that continue to come to the public include torture, mutilation, beheading, rape and sexual abuse, as well as forced deportations and displacements of civilians, including thousands of children. When one year of the Bucha massacre is signed, it is time for once again to condemn vehemently these acts and all that happened and continue to happen until today in the various cities and regions of Ukraine, expressing our deep sorrow and solidarity to the Ukrainian people and again calling for the accountability and punishment of their authors. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, at the time when one year of the liberation of Bucha, Irpin and Hostomel, recalls with deep regret the massacre of Bucha and all the massacres that took place in Ukrainian soil since the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, demonstrating to the Ukrainian people all their support and solidarity and vehemently condemning all the barbarities and war crimes committed by the Russian military in Ukrainian territory. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u296	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[When put to the vote, the PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L were voted in favour of the PS, and against the CFP.]] [[Protests by members of the CH and IL.]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u297	Mrs Paula Santos, do you ask for the floor to indicate that you will make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u298	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u299	I record and welcome the presence of the Ukraine Business Officer in the diplomatic forum of our Assembly. I ask everyone to accompany me in a minute of grief on behalf of these citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The Voting Project No. 321 / XV / 1 is now being followed. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Welcoming the accession of the Republic of Finland to the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last April 4, the Republic of Finland became officially no 31. the Member State of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). As the Secretary-General of the Alliance said in his speech of then, “Finland will obtain a security guarantee with a rail shield: Article 5. the, our collective defence clause, all by one, will apply-CL to Finland from now on. ” After 74 years since its foundation, no country belonging to NATO has been permanently invaded or occupied, nor has it had to go through a devastation similar to what we have seen today in Ukraine. Thus, as a safety and collective defence project, NATO today assumes a fundamental importance in asserting the rule of law and in guaranteeing the territorial sovereignty of its members, with a focus on those of lesser size, favouring the use of diplomacy for resolution of potential conflicts and deterring potential foci of aggression by powers with hostile intentions. Sharing with Russia about 1340 km of border, Finland is one of the most developed democracies in the world and, for this reason, despite its history of post-Second War neutrality, has never excluded any well-prepared and trained Armed Forces, whose experience and operational product can now revert to the alliance as a whole and thus put to the service of the values of peace, democracy and respect for human rights, preserving international stability and security. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes Finland's accession to NATO, recognizing the fundamental role of the Alliance for Stability and Security in Europe and in safeguarding the values of democracy and peace. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u301	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and the BE and the NAP and L abstained were adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH and the IL.]] Mrs Paula Santos, do you ask for the floor to indicate that you will make a statement of vote in writing?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u302	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u303	Does Mr Rui Tavares do the same?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u304	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u305	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The general vote of Bill No. 696 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — The pension shall be updated for the year 2023, under Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December, and shall extend the application of the exceptional supplement to pensioners of special schemes and pensioners who are not resident in national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 703 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December on the indexer of social support by updating disability and old age pensions under the general social security scheme according to inflation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No. 478 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government increase disability and old age pensions in order to neutralise the effects of inflation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No 513 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Interim increase in reforms and pensions in the year 2023. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 576 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government apply the annual updating of pensions to all pensioners and pensioners with pensions initiated from 1 January 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The general vote on the Bill No 55 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the control and supervision of critical personnel for the safety of civil aviation in operation under the influence of alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and PAN.]] The bill adopted is lower than 1. the Commission. We continue, with the vote, in general, Bill No. 60 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amends the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 698 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Amends the temporary work regime and strengthens mechanisms for combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 661 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — Return to rail users the value of the pass corresponding to the days on which the transport is not provided. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] Then we generally vote for Bill No. 666 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Include rail users in minimum service decisions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD, CH and L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 547 / XV / 1 is also followed. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government correct the failures of the National Railway Plan and review their multiannual investment plans. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u306	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u307	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u308	Mr President, I would like to make a written statement of vote on this draft resolution No 547 / XV / 1. a (IL) and it will be on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies José Carlos Barbosa, Berta Nunes, Augustinho Santa and Fatima Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u309	Thank you. It's registered. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 548 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — By liberalising the public inland waterway transport service through the Tejo and fulfilling the obligations of the State. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 695 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Introduction of representative of the Committee of Workers to the Boards of Directors of the Infrastructures of Portugal, SA and CP, Portugal Trains, EPE. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 697 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Railway valuation and creation of the national public transport travel programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] The general vote of Bill No 706 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the rail transport contract in order to ensure passenger rights in the event of strike. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 602 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces the contribution to ADSE, SAD and ADM to 3 % and sets the incidence of these contributions within the 12 months corresponding to the monthly remuneration by amending Decree-Law No 118 / 83 of 25 February and Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 665 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Reduces contributions to SAD and ADM health subsystems. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 692 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Provision that the discount on the supplementary system of assistance in the illness of the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police affects 12 months of basic remuneration ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] The general vote of Bill No 660 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Social debt regularisation programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 700 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It provides for the flexibility of the financing line' Social Investment'. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, PCP and BE.]] The general vote of Bill No 701 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Increases the limit on the number of benefits for tax payments ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 125 / 2021 of 30 December ; Forty-third amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 16 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, BE and L.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 491 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Sets out the rules applicable to early retirement of children educators and teachers of basic and secondary education, amending the Status of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 570 / XV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European elections initiatives considered to be priority within the framework of the European Commission's 2023 work programme. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH and IL, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions to the NAP and L.]] We then vote on the Resolution Project No. 330 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — IPSS energy poverty network. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, CH, IL and PAN, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions to the PS and L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 344 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prohibition of kinetic activity in Gerês National Peneda Park. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No. 448 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Protect the Gerês Peneda National Park by investing in more supervision, planning and ecological restoration. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution, which was adopted, is down to 11. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 429 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — For the implementation of a voluntary carbon market in Portugal. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and IL, votes against the PCP and BE, and abstentions against PS, CH, PAN and L.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 447 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government change the position adopted by the EU Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries and that it be approved for the purpose of exporting live animals by sea to third countries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, L and PS Pedro Delgado Alves and IL and PCP abstentions.]] The vote on draft resolution No 516 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — At the end of slaughter of animals for the purposes of skin extraction and import of fur into Portugal and the European Union and the creation of a more transparent labelling. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected and votes against BE, PAN and L.]] We now turn to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on draft resolutions Nos 413 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a national environmental education strategy 2030, and 439 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Review the National Environmental Education Strategy and create activities cores in all school groups. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on Bills Nos 479 / XV / 1, follows. a ( PS ) — adopts consumer protection standards for financial services, 465 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ends the collection of abusive banking commissions to all credit holders by making the first amendment to Law No 57 / 2020 of 28 August and 466 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ends the limits of transfers by homebanking and payment applications operated by third parties under bank minimum service accounts by amending Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March 2000. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the plenary session of the Indicative Votes held at the Commission's special session. I wonder whether we can at the same time vote on the final text or whether there is any difference between the two votes. [[Pause.]] I don't think there is. Silence is consent. [[Pause.]] It's not anymore. The Liberal Initiative is in internal consultations. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall together vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality of the Commission and on the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bills Nos 479 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts consumer protection standards for financial services; 465 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) - Ends the collection of abusive banking fees to all credit holders by making the first amendment to Law No 57 / 2020 of 28 August; and 466 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) - Ends the limits of transfers by homebanking and payment applications operated by third parties under bank minimum service accounts by amending Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March 2000. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u310	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u311	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u312	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD will make a written statement of vote on behalf of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u313	All right, get registered. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 326 / XV / 1, follows. a (PAN) — Consecrates March 1 as the national day of endometriosis and adenomiosis, 437 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the development of a national strategy to combat endometriosis and adenomiosis, and 444 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the date of 1 March as the national day of the fight against endometriosis and recommends that the Government approve measures to support those carrying this disease. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolution No 523 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts to improve access to health care in the Family Health Unit Certoma Paths in the Mealhada municipality. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Health Committee, on draft resolutions Nos 443 / XV / 1, follows. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts to improve access to SNS in the West, and 479 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government pursue improvements in access to the National Health Service in the West. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Bill No 507 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Review of the reception measures and programme for the empowerment of children and young people in danger ( fifth amendment to Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September approving the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] There is no reading of the file, but tells me the Bureau that I have to announce that they were in transit, during the quorum verification period, but landed, still the quorum was being verified, the worthy colleagues Bernardo Blanco and Maria João Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u314	Mr. President, and André Coelho Lima, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-04-14.u315	This looks like rail traffic today. [[Laughing.]] The next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 19 April. It is the first item on the agenda of the current debate required by the CFP on « The situation of the national railway ». The second point is based on the general assessment of the Bill No 39 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Clarify the intervention of municipalities in the procedures for the construction, expansion or modification of an aerodrome, and the Bill No. 704 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — See Decree-Law No 186/2007 of 10 May setting out the conditions for the construction, certification and operation of national civil aerodromes. The third point is based on the general assessment of Bill Nos 72 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the protection of sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and sexual characteristics ( fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code), 359 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Strengthening the right to exercise the right to self-determination of gender identity, gender expression and the right to the protection of sexual characteristics in school, 21 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The first amendment to Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August establishing the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person, and to the approval of its regulations, 209 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Prohibition and criminalization of « conversion practices », aimed at the suppression of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, 332 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — establishes the framework for the issuance of administrative measures to be adopted by schools for the purposes of the implementation of Law No 38 / 2018 of 7 August, 699 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents criminalization of practices with a view to changing, limiting or suppressing sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, and promotes the study of these practices in Portugal and the guarantee of support and response mechanisms, 705 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthen the protection and privacy of children and young people in spaces of privacy in school context, and 705 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Strengthen the protection and privacy of children and young people in spaces of privacy in school context. Being like this, good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 54 minutes.]]
