ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in a position to begin our work. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. We have no record to read, so that we can enter directly into the agenda, the first point of which is the general assessment of the Bill No 61 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the financial arrangements of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, together with Bills Nos 415 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme of municipal debt applicable to expenditure to deal with the damage caused by the full situations in December 2022, 615 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — At the end of the levying rate of occupation of the subsoil to consumers, 618 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Proceeds to 11. the amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and intermunicipal entities and 624 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishs the possibility of strengthening the funds of municipalities to ensure protection of protected areas, compliance with the provisions of the Climate Bases Act and the implementation of plans to promote affordable rent, accommodation for higher education or young lease, amending Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013. To present the Government's bill, I give the floor to Ms. Minister for Deputy and Parliamentary Affairs, Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment which the Government here proposes to present is the result of the partnership made with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and also of what stems from the State budget for 2023. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the State budget for 2023 provided for an exceptional scheme of increase to 100 % of the margin of indebtedness of the authorities in the framework of the national financing of projects co-financed in the non-eligible component. Although this forecast remained in the State Budget for 2023, there was also a need for exceptional measures, in view of the conjuncture not only of what has already come from the supply chains of the covered 19 pandemic, but also of what results from this last year of war in Ukraine, which has, as we know, brought consequences in terms of life costs. For this reason, assuming the Government as an absolutely essential partner for the implementation of a set of projects, in particular of what should be the accelerated implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan (PRR ), and also recognizing the demanding context and the responses that continue to involve concrete action by the authorities, it is justified - a circumstantial extension and the adaptation of the time limits for the use of local authorities'loans, as well as the increase of the currently planned margin of indebtedness, so that we can support the investment capacity of these authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u4	What's at stake, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is very simple: it is to change the term of use of the capital of loans, medium and long term, contracted by the municipalities, which was until the end of 2023, and thus all loans contracted until the end of 2022 see the deadline extended until December 2026. On the other hand, it is envisaged to intervene on the subject of the margins of indebtedness of the authorities, in order not only to be increased, as I said earlier, for the co-financed projects, as is already the result of the State budget, but also for those who are not co-financed, which means an increase not by 20 % but by 40 % of indebtedness, ensuring the capacity of local authorities to implement what their work should be. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is aware of the financial situation it is experiencing, of the contingencies for families, for businesses, but also for local authorities in the face of increased cost of living. We have taken several steps either to deal with the increase in energy costs, or to deal with the increase in life costs — indeed, new measures will be introduced today — and what this proposal is going to do is tell the partners of the local authorities here that we are also aware of their difficulties and finding the best solutions for all of us and, ultimately, for the lives of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u5	The Minister has a request for clarification and to express it has the floor of Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, one of the great bets of the Socialist Party has been the effective compliance with the Local Finance Act, which since the last revision has incorporated solid principles into municipal financial management. This compliance has resulted in an increase in transfers to municipalities and to the parish of 38 % since 2015. It is a continuous strengthening of the autonomy of local power, strengthening what has been welcomed and recognized by both ANMP and ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ). We also establish, as a clear objective, the gradual increase in the participation of local authorities in the management of public revenues, converging up to 2025 to the mid-level of the countries of the European Union and consolidating the participation of municipalities in the revenue of local value added tax. This is also an ever closer goal. We are fully implementing the PRR and, once again, local power is an essential agent. We therefore discuss today, Mrs Minister, an important bill that amends the financial regime of local authorities with a view to ensuring the speedy implementation of the PRR, an instrument that we know is deeply transforming, which responds to structural challenges and is therefore a unique plan of opportunities for the territories and populations as well. A change to the period of use by the municipalities of medium and long-term loans, which will be extended from the present two to three years, is proposed an exceptional and temporary scheme, applicable to loans which have been contracted until 31 December 2022, extending until 31 December 2026. In order to ensure the national financing of non-financed projects, an exceptional scheme is still included in the proposal, as it referred to the debt margin, which now rises from 20 % to 40 %. We are therefore in the face of detailed, necessary amendments which deserve a favourable percentage of ANMP, which refers to no opposition to the adoption of the three measures contained in the proposed law, because they are considered to be potentiators of investment capacity in the authorities. I would therefore ask the Minister what are the main challenges in this area, in view of the increasing demands that are placed on the local administration, in an environment of deep decentralization, digital transition and climate in the territories. It is also agreed that the guarantee of the stability of the Local Finance Act and the forecast of a fair distribution of public resources, increasing participation in government taxes, along with correction and strengthening of territorial cohesion, is the necessary way. I am sure so, because better and more local autonomy also means more and better democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u7	In reply, I have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u8	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, thank you very much for the question you have put to me, which I think is easy to answer. What the government has been doing over time is complying with the Local Finance Act and this means ensuring financial autonomy to local authorities to meet the demands of their populations and to the cohesive territorial development of our country. What we are doing over the years is correcting what is needed and, at every moment, as it was in the context of the covered 19 pandemic, recognizing that the authorities needed more funding to respond to what was required. Today, Madam Commissioner, what we are doing is, after we have approved the State budget for 2023 — and we have already recognised a significant increase in transfers to local authorities — we will take another step in this necessary cooperation between the central State and local authorities. at the same time that we are transferring competences in such important areas as health, social protection or education, we also guarantee here the financial capacity of the authorities to respond to the increase in the cost of living of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is because we are aware that the responsibilities are all of us, and they are not just the authorities, the companies or the government — I repeat, the responsibility is all of us! — that the answers must be shared by all and that is the spirit we are in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u9	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The floods of last winter caused high damage and loss of life. We know that extreme natural phenomena will become more and more frequent in the current climate crisis scenario and therefore it is not enough to talk about compliance with public debt, including at the level of local authorities. In the face of the warnings of the scientific community and the widespread loss of material and life, we continue to see that it continues to comply with the Basics of Climate Law, which has been in force for more than a year, and that support to the authorities has also taken time to arrive. Recently, the Minister of Cohesion said she would like — and I would like to stress! — in June, the funds can be delivered to the municipalities and companies that have applied for support to cover the losses suffered. If that is the case, it means that only six months after the full country has passed is that the support will reach the companies and those who have suffered severe damage and damage resulting from the full. It would be important for our country, one of the most vulnerable to climate change, to be effectively more resilient and prepared to deal with these phenomena, which also means having compensation mechanisms that allow for more effective action in the repair of these same damages. In fact, it is enough to look at other extreme events, such as forest fires, to realize that, by adding ourselves to the full, we will, in fact, have extreme climatic phenomena that make the whole sense exist a real Simplex of procedures to relieve the bureaucratic load, contrary to what we have seen in other areas. I am an example of the word "Environmental Simple" which aims to make the environmental impact assessment withdrawn, but in relation to the size of reparation to people, we no longer have the same type of procedures on the part of the government. That is why today we are bringing two very concrete proposals: one, to ensure that funds are strengthened in the size of the city's support in the management of protected areas, essential for combating the climate crisis; the other, the approval of an exceptional municipal debt scheme applicable to expenditure on the damage suffered, i.e. a scheme similar to that which has been in place in the context of the health crisis to help municipalities guard the non-accounting for the application of the limits of municipal indebtedness of the losses suffered, so that the limits of debts are not hampered by the autarchic action in response to the people and businesses affected. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the NAP will be fully available to work on this matter in the field of expertise so that we can effectively reach not only those who need the most due to the damage, but also to make our country more resilient in climate action.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u11	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u12	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members : It is clear today something about which, until now, we had some doubts about the procedure and why it had happened. We had some doubts about the great passivity of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities during the period of acceptance of competences in the area of decentralization, « not coughing nor muging », in relation to what was being imposed on it to be a State Tuesday. Over the past few years, many of us, some who are autarchs and others who have already been, realize that municipal chambers have had a consecutive increase in their debt. Decentralisation has been placed on the municipal chambers more and more responsibility, without the central government sending the necessary means. When we look at the municipal budgets, which are dense and large and, in particular, if we look at the municipal budget in Lisbon, we realize that Lisbon has EUR 1, 2 billion. But the problem is not the budget, because the budget is something esoteric, where we put in the headings what we think one day can be done, without having great responsibilities about whether or not it will be. It is almost like the State Budget, which we have so much discussed here and so much emphasis is given to it, forgetting, often, that we should be looking at the General State Account, because it is, in fact, where we realize what has been done. When we look at the execution rates of municipal chambers, we realize that the execution rates of most municipal chambers do not exceed 30 % of what was budgeted, which means, for those who are at home, that of the 100 % budgeted, they spend 30 %, the other 70 % do not spend, because, even there are no and they go from year to year on management balances. The municipal chambers in Portugal are bankrupt — bankrupt! — and indebted. What do the NAP and the government propose? That they can borrow more, that they can be debited in the long term, so that, often, these debts pass and pass, including, to all those who follow, in a logic of the « next one who closes the door», is a troika in the municipalities, or something like that, who must be responsible for doing so next. When we look at the municipal budgets—for example, for what has been so much shouted about municipal housing—the municipalities that have municipal housing have very high debts that they cannot charge. However, the stigma of racism, the social stigma prevents municipal chambers from recovering the values they have pending in municipal housing, allowing them to live in houses that are of all those who do not pay because they do not want, when those who should use municipal housing are those who do not pay because they cannot. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You will continue to allow this to happen! Direct adjustments, when we look at the municipal budgets, are a great thing. They are something fantastic for all of us who are politicians and who realize, when we go to base.gov.pt portal, that what is there as definition of direct adjustments is always « lack of internal means for carrying out the task». As if no one existed in the municipal chambers! However, the idea that public opinion has about municipalities is that this is where it begins and where the principle of corruption is always. Looking at these issues of direct adjustments — always because of 'no internal means' — and then for staff maps in the budgets of the municipal chambers and we realize that all municipal chambers have about 40 % of their municipal budget affected by the staff map. When we look at the staff map and look at the volume of advances, we realize that, between boys and girls that are circulating within the municipal chambers—between the City Hall of Lisbon which is lost to a party and whose employees of a particular party, therefore, have to travel to the other chambers around—it will be realised that, after all, everyone who is transferred and who increases the staff frames does not serve at all anything, just to allocate the malt of the party that has nowhere to stay. [[Congrats from the CH.]] These political decisions make the municipal budgets gratifying, not effective and not solving anyone's problems. However, the plenary has come up with a proposal which also has to do with local finances and since everyone says that we are "one to help the population", they agree. Let's take it! This is because the rate of occupation of subsoils that operators continue to pay to municipal chambers is then charged to the population. We are the ones who pay for everything that is applied by these companies, which makes a lot of profit. Now, we have no problems, when it comes to a benefit for the population, for Portugal and for Portuguese, to think that we have to move in these situations. Therefore, we have been unequivocally asking that the subsoil occupancy rates be paid by the operators and not by the population. Once and for all, let's take serious action! We will accept to defend the population and stop saying 'good, let's increase the debts', because the debts of the municipal chambers are already huge enough. But we realize: what you want is to destroy once and for all the municipal chambers to once and for all put an end to the principle of municipalism and proximity and walk towards what you want so much, which is regionalization. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u13	To submit Bill No. 618 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) now has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : The CFP brings the debate to a bill that introduces amendments to the law establishing the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities, with the aim of solving more immediate concrete problems. Nevertheless, we recognize the need for a thorough review of this legislation, especially in order to strengthen the financial capacity of the local authority, increasing the participation of authorities in state taxes and deepening their autonomy. in this initiative we propose to clarify that the municipal social fund should have at least 2 % of the average revenue of IRS (tax on income of natural persons), IRC (tax on income of public persons) and VAT and ensure mechanisms that increase decision-making capacity in the form of revenue allocation, allowing transfers to be considered as current or capital. We also propose to maintain the principle in force in Article 35. the, referring to the minimum and maximum variations of the transfers concerned are classified only as capital, which in many cases causes a global decrease in current transfers and budgetary management difficulties. Our initiative aims to establish that the depreciation of outstanding loans does not include the calculation of the average depreciation of medium and long-term loans, taking into account that several amendments introduced in Law No 73 / 2013 of 13 September allowed certain types of loans to be exempted for the calculation of total debt, which extended the possibility of municipalities borrowing. However, in the case of municipalities failing to comply with the rule of budgetary balance provided for in Article 40. the measure is ineffective, because if, on the one hand, the loan is exceptional, on the other hand, given the need to comply with this rule, the municipality is unable to contract a loan. We propose to provide loans under the financing lines made available by the EIB ( European Investment Bank ) and similar institutions to finance the national counterpart of projects without participation from the European Structural and Investment Funds of the consultation of at least three credit institutions. This proposal makes it possible to resolve a practical issue and clarify the law. Thus, instead of the matter being dealt with year by year in the Budget, stability is increased and recourse to it is facilitated as well as the processing of the entire procedure. The CFP intends to exempt loans intended solely for the financing of investment in energy efficiency and in the supply sector of water, waste water and urban waste management for the purposes of clearing the total debt. Thus, the conditions for making investments can be created which will improve management efficiency, with positive impacts on the reduction of expenditure and on the economic and financial sustainability of systems. This will have a positive impact on the environment, including the reduction of water losses and the better management of water and energy resources. We also propose to avoid the differences in accounting resulting from the application of the SNC-AP ( System of Accounting Standardization for Public Administrations ) in contracts that were concluded prior to its entry into force that place municipalities in non-compliance with the rules of indebtedness. For this purpose, the rule that was in force in the first year of application of this accounting system should be reconsidered in accordance with the State Budget Act for 2018. With regard to the proposal for a law submitted by the Government, it is much less than what is necessary, and this makes it even more relevant to the need to approve the proposals that the CFP brings today. This would be very important and would ensure, in the short term, better conditions for the budgetary and financial management of local authorities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u15	For an intervention in the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: To discuss the financial regime of local authorities is to talk about decentralization, to talk about the powers of the authorities, to talk about respect for the principle of subsidiarity, a concept so expensive and important to liberals and so relevant for true democracy. With the commitment of the Government to the National Association of Municipalities, that a working group will be set up with the aim of reforming the Local Finance Act, the Government recognizes that the financial regime of local authorities no longer serves. The same government, which knows that the current regime is no longer in use, proposes some remedies through this bill. But to remedies we are already used: in December, we were confronted with an avous proposal to strengthen the Municipal Social Fund, and now they present us with another remedy in the financing of the authorities. But will these remedies be sufficient in the medium and long term? Will these be the remedies the authorities need? And, more importantly, will these remedies be sustainable from a financial point of view? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with remedies which will extend the indebtedness of local authorities, but which do not extend or alter their revenue capacity or autonomy over this revenue. Attributing greater debt capacity to municipalities is not granting more autonomy, nor is it granting more freedom. Today's loans will always be tomorrow's debt, and with the freedom of debt contraction there will always be responsibility for its payment. Mrs. Members, more important than the proposal currently under discussion and which already has the approval guaranteed by the Socialist Bank, will be to perceive the real intentions of the Government with the reform of the financial regime of local authorities. This is the response that is of interest to the authorities and that is the answer that is of interest mainly to all Portuguese. The Liberal Initiative hopes that this review will be carried out in a timely and competent manner, but in full respect by the Assembly of the Republic, with respect for all the time and all the necessary formalities. But because we are talking about respect for the Assembly of the Republic and the authorities, we cannot help but wonder when the government is planning to bring together the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation for the first time in this Parliament. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u17	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The authorities are the finest and closest mesh of the population. They are therefore the entities that can best respond to the needs of the territory and, on the other hand, implement the State's plans and the Government's guidelines. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, unlike the closed attack on local authorities, the municipalities have, over recent years, been making a fundamental and decisive contribution to improving the public deficit through successive annual surpluses, accompanied by reductions in indebtedness, late payments and medium payment periods, as well as a clear improvement in the levels of budgetary implementation. Portugal now has a unique opportunity in its history. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is this opportunity, but at the same time constitutes an unprecedented challenge: that of its implementation until 2026. For these reasons, the Government and this parliamentary group understand that it is important to strengthen the mechanisms available to the municipalities so that they can fulfil this plan. The amendments to the financial regime of the local authorities that we are discussing today and which we will shortly vote are aimed at improving the conditions for implementing the municipalities. First, by increasing from two to three years the maximum period of use of medium- and long-term loan capital and by creating an exceptional and temporary scheme extending by 31 December 2026 the period of use of capital in medium- and long-term loans and increasing by 20 % to 40 % the available debt margin. On this proposal, the National Association of Municipalities was consulted, which expressed favourably, despite demanding a deeper change to the financial regime of local authorities. In this respect, the CFP brings us a set of proposals that constitute a real structural change to the financing model of the municipalities that we cannot follow due to lack of global framework, weighting and foundation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u19	Yes, you need to weigh and then it'll work out!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u20	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the time to consolidate, increase the funds to be transferred to municipalities and strengthen competences and means. The Government has a number of commitments in its Programme that involve reviewing the financial regime of local authorities and therefore continuing dialogue and collaboration with the National Association of Municipalities, this time will arrive and will also reach this Assembly. For now, and in the face of the increased difficulties created by the levels of execution and inflation, the rupture of some supply chains and the scarcity of human resources in some sectors of the economy, this is a step that clearly improves the capacity of action of municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u21	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs : As you can read in the first paragraph of the explanatory statement of the Government's legislative initiative, the same seeks to support the investment capacity of local authorities in order to ensure the speedy implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan for the period from 2021 to 2026. On this purpose and on the measures provided for in the legislative initiative of the Government to materialize it, nothing — strictly nothing! — we need to add to what has already been said. We will follow this initiative without reservation. What we do not follow and, on the contrary, we denounce and reprobate are other initiatives, are other government attitudes towards local authorities who now ignore them, or sidelines them, or have paid them. [[PSD applause.]] And there is no shortage of examples of this statement: today we are discussing a government proposal to change the law of local finances because of the PRR. The same PRR that led the municipalities to correctly accuse the government of being ignored at the time of their appearance. We are talking about the same PRR, marked by the centralism of a government that calls itself a decentralizer, but which has reserved for Lisbon EUR 2225 million, the same value that it has reserved for 284 municipalities together! [[PSD applause.]] We are talking about the same government which has committed itself to paying the costs incurred by municipalities in combating the pandemic, but which later, in the discussion of the State budget proposal for 2023, assumed that it was not yet in a position to settle the total of EUR 156 million claimed by those and assessed by the Court of Auditors. [[PSD applause.]] We are talking about a government which imposed the decentralization of competences on a compulsory basis from 1 April 2022 in the area of education, but which takes a long time to compensate the municipalities for the costs above the values that were initially contracted, it repeats itself by obligation.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u24	We are talking about the same government which, without waiting for the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the opinion of the National Association of Freguesias, approved its proposal for the creation of NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) of the Setúbal Peninsula, objectively harming six municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon in access to Community funds. To learn: Mafra, Vila Franca de Xira, Loures, Odivelas, Amadora and Sintra. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u25	We are talking about the same government that has revealed the intention to approve a legislative package around the housing, known as More Housing, according to which, even without hearing the municipalities, they want to take responsibility for the expropriation of the devolved property, with a view to the coercive lease, for the supervision of the number of leasers for property and want to castrate them in their licensing activity of the local housing. We are talking about the same government that, after identifying the owners and entrepreneurs of local housing as the culprits of the past and the present by the crisis in the housing lease market in Portugal, now wants to blame the municipalities for more than a certain failure of their public policies in housing. We are talking about the same government that protects the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests), which, unbelievably, has forgotten to involve the municipalities in the preparation and publication of the Charter of Hazardousness of Rural Fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u26	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u28	We are talking about the same government that suspended the application of the same Charter until March of the current year, suspension which now extended until December 31, 2024, because in the last nine months the ICNF has simply continued to prove itself unable to involve the municipalities. Mr Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, the legislative initiative that the Government is submitting to Parliament deserves to be followed, and we are going to follow it, but all the initiatives and attitudes I have just exemplified can only deserve and deserve our most vehement rejection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u29	There are no arguments against the facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u30	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In view of the legislative initiatives that are under discussion today, we would like to leave some notes. The financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities is of course a fundamental instrument for local power and today we are discussing a number of initiatives which, in general, concern their financing. These are proposals from the Government and from some parties, which we will generally follow. It is true that the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities deserves a deeper reflection and probably adjustments that will better respond to the need of these bodies. However, we do not believe in the proposals that are on the table today on decentralization or municipalisation. On these, we have, yes, many and well-founded doubts. Without prejudice to this deeper debate, which would necessarily involve extensive revisions of the regime in question here, as indeed, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has been requesting, the last few years have shown that there are timely and very concrete improvements that are necessary to this regime. The recognition of this need comes, above all, in recent years, from the impacts of the pandemic, which has brought great challenges to the country and also to the municipalities, a little throughout the country, until they are the closest organs of the communities and often played a fundamental role in responses that were faster to reach these populations, despite the financing problems they had. Two other issues have to do with the PRR, with extreme climate phenomena, which have already been mentioned, and with the increase in general costs. From that point of view, we will follow the proposals on the table, because it seems to us that these timely and very concrete amendments help to answer these questions. With regard to the draft law of the Arrival on the occupation rate of the basement, it is true, Mr. Members, who today are consumers at this cost in the natural gas bill. In fact, I recall that the Left Block bench has been defending, over several years, that this cost should not be affected by consumers, as it has already been recommended since 2017, but has never been met. Another question is whether or not this rate should exist. For us, it is not acceptable that municipalities cannot charge a fee on the occupation of municipal domain, i.e. the conducts, pipes, networks for the infrastructures necessary for the distribution of gas. What you cannot do is charge consumers what should be charged directly to operators. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of arrival is, frankly and notoriously, poorly done, and I explain why. Article 1. the, read: « [... ] in order to clarify that the occupation rate of the basement should not be charged by the municipalities[... ] ». Next, in the proposal for an addendum to Article 8. o -A, it is said that, after all, the fee is charged by the municipalities. And then in Article 3. , it is said that companies have to adapt to the elimination of this rate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, clarify what you want. It is not understandable to present a bill as it is at this time, so confused with what is proposed. What the Left Block has defended, and which apparently arrives also defends, is that this fee should be charged. All right, it must be charged, not to people, but directly to companies, to operators, without reflection on the invoice. Frankly, that is not what is expressed in this bill and therefore it is not acceptable that we are currently discussing a project that is already so confusing and so contradictory in just three articles. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u32	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u33	Mr President, Caras and Dear Colleagues : The quality, or condition, of autarch has been invoked several times in this debate and there are several Members and Members who are on the front line, in their municipalities and parish. Anyone who attends a public meeting of a municipality, with the participation of the monks and the Fregues, and come to the problems that people bring to their authorities can only see that there is a lesson of reality, of Country, of the real problems that every day have to be solved, and there is ever more and more. There is no doubt that the authorities in Portugal play the crucial role of sustaining what is left of us, what we have, of cohesion and of social fabric. From that point of view, after a pandemic, we have a war period and we need to give more capacity to execute the authorities, which is fair. It is not understood in the Government's proposal, because this greater capacity for implementation, which aims to accompany the PRR, is not extended for another year, precisely so that it can cover the final deadline of the PRR's own works. It is extended for another three years, but still, the PRR does not end when the delivery of the funds ends, but, yes, when the works are finished. On the other hand, it is not understood in this debate that everyone agrees that more structural reform is needed to finance the authorities, in particular in order to leave the less dependent on the buildings made with little quality and haste — for which we have already paid a very large price in the past, and we can pay again in the future — and if you say that this is not the time to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u34	You can go on! You've got two more hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u35	If this isn't the time, then when is it? Still, there is some virtue in this proposal, which we do not fully follow, but which is necessary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u36	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u37	You've doubled the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u38	... at the present time of the life of the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u39	To close the debate, you now have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Thank you very much for the discussion here. I am sure that, in the specialty, it will be more thorough. At the end of this debate, I think it is worth pointing out three points. The first is that, for the Government, the valorisation of local power is even an objective and is even a commitment that the State has to the local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not by chance that the Local Finance Act is being fulfilled and it is not by chance that, from 2015 until today, the increase in transfers of funds to the authorities, by the Government, has been 38 %, which is very contrasting, Mr. Paulo Rios...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u41	It's not Paulo Rios, it's Jorge Paulo!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u42	You're right! Now it's tired. I would say, Mr President, that what I have just mentioned is very contrary to the law of the Commitments which the PSD has approved in this House, thereby causing enormous financial constraints in the authorities. It contrasts, moreover, with the management of PSD / CDS, with the failure to comply with the Local Finance Act and therefore the non-transfer and reduction of funds to local authorities. Contrast, still—since he spoke of housing—with the attitude of the law of rents, that we are all remembered, that strangled the ability of tenants to rent houses. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, on the Law on Local Finance and support for the authorities, on the appreciation that the Government really gives to the strategy of cooperation with local authorities, we are talking about. This cooperation strategy has to do with the government's commitment to decentralization, which is reflected not only in the law of decentralization, but in the two sectoral agreements that were concluded with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities for the transfer of competences in the area, for example, of education. I'd like to remind the ladies. Members who think that we are strangling the authorities who, at an increase of 38% of the funds transferred to the authorities, add EUR 1205 million, which have been transferred to the areas of health, education, culture and social action at school. I also recall the reinforcement of EUR 62 million in the State budget for 2023, totalling EUR 1267 million for local authorities to meet the needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Joana Cordeiro, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the first meeting of the Monitoring Committee with the Government and this Parliament for the decentralization process was held on 20 December 2022, precisely three months ago. Madam Member, it is better to inform ourselves, because this committee exists so that we can all work together.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u43	It was voted here!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u44	I conclude, Mr President, just to say the following : the Local Finance Act was, and well, amended in 2018. It is appropriate that the laws can breathe to see their effects and, therefore, what we are doing with this bill is to ensure that the authorities, in the face of increasing the cost of living, which was not caused by the government, but by external factors, such as the inflation we are dealing with, can continue to respond to those that are the needs of their populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u45	Having ended, then, the first item on our agenda, we move on to the second point, which consists in the assessment of the Resolution Project No 501 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government clarify the scope of priority criteria for children covered by the Creche Felis programme of Law No 626 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, in order to clarify the terms of the free frequency of day care and the priority of admission of children with siblings to attend day care covered by this measure, and 628 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amends the law approving the progressive extension of the freeness of care at the Institute for Social Security, I.P. , ensuring compensation to families not contemplated, and to Resolution Projects Nos 510 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The territorial scope for the measurement of day care free vacancies is made at the level of parish and 515 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive extension of the free of charge of day care centres and lovers of the Institute for Social Security, I.P. To present the PSD draft resolutions, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings back today the debate on the measure of the free of charge of the day care centres, and brings it in because the government has been failing, successively and consecutively, in the application and implementation of this measure. First of all, it has left out all the capacity installed to welcome, free of charge, all children and thus help them and families. In other words, despite the fact that the social and solidarity-sector daycare facilities did not have the capacity to accommodate all children, the government did not consider the private sector daycare. What happened? Oh, my God! Children and families were left behind, for mere ideological prejudice. This is unacceptable! [[PSD applause.]] Then, late, the government came to consider the private sector and extend the scope of the free application to this sector. This was a requirement of the PSD, which the government only heard in part. In other words, families are only entitled to a free strike on a private day, if there is no vacancy in the social network and the municipality's solidarity, even if, in the parish, that is, there is a private day. It's unacceptable! If there is a gap closer, why does the government force parents to travel more miles? This is an amendment that we demand and that the government should do immediately. [[PSD applause.]] by setting priorities for access to a free daycare, the Government did not properly safeguard the interests of children and families. It does not make sense that a brother of those who attend a certain institution is not a priority in the same, so that they can be together. The government, which says it is concerned about the reconciliation between family and professional life and that it wants to promote birth, is doing everything the opposite. That's what you did and that's what's happened. Parents have to spend the morning leaving one child in an institution and another child in another institution. We called attention to this issue, and the government came again late to hear the PSD, but heard it only in part. [[PSD applause.]] at this moment, allow me to thank all the parents, all the institutions and, in particular, the parents who represent the other parents in Infantcoop (Cooperative of Working Fathers for Child Support), an institution of the Queen's Horses that has done much to bring about justice in this issue, so that the government will in fact change the criteria of priority. That is what the government has done, but, as I said, only in part. [[PSD applause.]] What happens is that the children of the workers of these institutions are still not considered as priority. So what we demand is, in fact, that there are changes. That is, we demand that the government once and for all introduce social justice and make the changes so demanded by the parents, so demanded by the PSD and so necessary to ensure that the daycare is indeed a happy day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u47	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the PSD for bringing this issue to debate, a topic that has since the first moment been of greatest relevance to the NAP. Indeed, the law that will establish the progressive extension of the free of charge of day care centres has ensured an important advance in the protection of parenthood and the rights of children. However, the NAP noted from the outset that this law was insufficient. Although, in some ways, some inadequacies have been filled by the door that extended the measure of the freeness of day care to children who attend private network day care, the lack of clarity of the legislation in force has led to interpretations that, in our view, contradict the objectives of the law. For example, the situation of children who, at the beginning of the school year, had been placed in the nursery and who, when they moved into the shopping room, were excluded from the scope of free movement. We also see the warning from some 200 parents — that we have already welcomed — that they have drawn up a petition for not guaranteeing priority in admission to the brothers of children who are already attending day care, a horrendous injustice, only closed on the new door of the 10th of this month. As you can see, the legislation was not, in fact, very clear in these areas. Therefore, with the initiative presented by the NAP, never disregarding the need to create a public, effective network of day care centres covering all children, we want to lay down the law — so that there is no doubt — the guarantee that, in the future, whenever there is a free application of day care facilities to children who attend day care centres in the private network, in territories where there is a lack of jobs covered by freeness, parents and children have access to this right. We therefore want to make it clear that children who are placed in a nursery in a school year and who transit in that year do not lose the right to free daycare. Even if access to the brothers is filled, in the context of the happy social programme that we have proposed, it is also important that the extension of this measure be discussed to the children of the collaborators of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), since the legitimate expectation that their children would be considered as priorities in the admission to this programme in the light of the internal regulations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the current increase in the cost of living and inflation, measures such as those we are now discussing are essential so that we can effectively help families and, in particular, children.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u49	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u50	Ex. Mr. President, Ex.mas Sr.as and Ex.mos Sr.s. Members: The freeness of daycare and love is a measure that the arrival recognizes as important and that, being applied, will benefit more than 100 000 children. This is a proposal which, it is important to stress, has been copied from the Socialist Party — but badly copied. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u51	It was so badly copied that its application continues to deserve complaints by all parties involved and to force the various parties to present bills and resolutions in order to solve the specific problem of families. It is therefore necessary to correct the law that promises what, in fact, does not happen: you are free of charge for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u53	The government promised free daycare in 2022 for all, but only in the school year of 2024 - 2025 is that this will happen. Already used to unmet PS promises, I wonder: is it? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unfortunately, Minister Ana Mendes Godinho or lack of the truth, or, then, is poorly advised, because the implementation of this law by the Government reveals one of two possibilities: incompetence, or savage popularity. Grave is that families with children up to three years old say they are both: incompetence and savage popularity. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is a serious fact, too, because it is recognised by Mr Eurico Brillante Dias himself, when, in the explanatory statement of the proposal under discussion, it says: "In the same way, this law does not clarify and seems to leave out of these regulations the daycare centres under direct management of local authorities. Do not keep on seeking. ” I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « [...] does not clarify and seems to be left out [...] ». It also says that the number of 100 000 children will only happen in 2024. That is, in the year 2022, there were 37 000 children covered in the year 2023, which will be 70 000 and in the year 2024, 100 000 children. That is, until then, some will benefit, others will not. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as there are unhappy families, there can be no happy daydreams. Shouldn't Minister Ana Mendes Godinho first create a happy family program where parents didn't need to steal bread and milk to starve their children?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u55	Where didn't the families need to go to the Food Bank's ranks against hunger?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u56	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the highest tax burden ever on families, day care centers are not free. On the contrary, they are paid by the taxes of the families themselves. I mean, don't pay in any way, you pay in another way. The arrival today presents a bill specifically aimed at compensation for the monthly payments paid by families who were not covered by the free of charge of the day care centres provided for in Article 2. the, therefore, as the PS presents, in the explanatory statement of its draft resolution: « Law No 2 / 2022 does not clarify, however, in what situation there are some cases-exception. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the lead of this bill will be an injustice for children and families, and the demonstration of this savage popularity of this majority. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u58	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We will continue with the presentation of the parties' initiatives. To present the Resolution Project No 515 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), Mrs Mara Lagriminha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are public policies that can really improve people's lives, the freeness of day care is definitely one of them. This is because it represents a decisive and priority measure for the country, which makes the difference in the lives of families, promotes equal opportunities and has a positive impact on the reduction of child poverty, giving all children the possibility of access to a daycare response regardless of the social conditions in which they live or the financial conditions of the family. Since we have not ignored the reality, the impact of the Creche Feliz programme is also on the parents and mothers of children — above all for mothers — for middle-class families and even more for disadvantaged families, because it allows freedom to work, which could be protected from having young children in charge and not have the financial capacity to bear the costs of such a response. This is also a measure that should be seen in a broad context of family support measures, in particular families with children. in this political cycle, we realized the Guarantee for Children, the increase in family allowance, the updating of the steps of IRS, which, together with the progressive freeness of day care, are measures that reflect the governmental priority of investment in income increase, social policies to protect children and also a greater reconciliation between personal, family and professional life, having a very positive impact on young families and on the promotion of birth. This measure is also a decisive response to one of the biggest challenges in the country, the demographic challenge, which must mobilize all of us in this House. The free-of-charge program of day care centers has been strengthened and extended and today represents a significant saving for families. More than a programme, it is a real reform, because the real reforms are those that translate public policies that transform our community in the long term. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The data available show that, in February this year, more than 53 000 children benefited from free day care, representing a monthly investment of more than EUR 8 million. In September 2022, daycare facilities became free for all children born after September 1, 2021 who frequent the social network of daycare and family care with cooperation agreement as well as social security lovers. For children born before 1 September 2021, free of charge shall apply to 1. o is 2. the income scales of family participation, which covers 24 000 children. From January this year, the free frequency of day care centres or joint day care centres has been extended without cooperation agreement, in the territories where the provision of free breaks in day care centres of the social and solidarity network has been exhausted. at this moment, we have 375 day care centers of the active profit network, with more than 5000 places available. The scope will gradually evolve until September 2024, when all ages of daycare frequency will be covered by the measure of freeness. It is estimated that, at the end of the implementation of the measure, 100 000 children are reached. It is also true that the objective is to continue to improve the coverage of the social day care network. To this end, we have been prioritising investments in day care offers through the PRR and PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) in the social network of less covered areas. It is in this sense that contracts have already been signed for interventions in social daycare equipment, with 7200 places to intervene, totalling EUR 64 million. What we want, with this initiative, is to take another progressive step towards the enlargement of the programme, with very significant social and territorial effects, accommodate the daycare responses provided by public higher education institutions and the daycare responses provided by local authorities. In the case of day care centres integrated in the child support services of public higher education institutions, this is the most basic social justice and equity, taking into account the social mission that they provide to the community that constitutes them, as support units for the fundamental family to ensure the balance between family, professional or academic life. Similarly, what we also propose today is that day care centres be covered under the direct management of local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u61	The Socialist Party has always recognized local authorities as relevant partners to ensure and implement a set of public socio-educational responses, promoting cohesion, and therefore municipal day care centres should be included in this context, similar to the solution already sent to the social and solidarity sector and to the private sector. This advance will respond to many territories where municipalities, through municipal day care centers, assure this important response, where the social network is scarce or non-existent.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u63	That is why it is necessary to safeguard that the freeness of day care even reaches all the territories, without leaving any child behind, regardless of where he lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u64	They left so many children behind!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u65	The Socialist Party is proud, historically, to have always made important contributions to improving the rights of children, to education, with emphasis on preschool and social responses that have contributed to the reduction of inequalities. What is proposed today to this Assembly of the Republic, exactly on the National Student Day, is that it responds if you want to take another step to extend the scope of law and public response, taking into account the exceptionality and speciality of these child support units, through the development of a more comprehensive legislative and regulatory regime, with well-measuring positive impacts on the daily lives of all citizens. The Socialist Party has no doubt: we know the importance of free daycare for our community,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u66	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u67	... we have clarified and strengthened the preference criteria fairly and adapted to reality whenever necessary, because this is even a programme that wants gradually—and has been so, responding to a vast majority of preference criteria, without questioning the proportionality of the measure. What we now present and propose is adjusted to what has been the accession of families, which will allow the enlargement of the network to a reality that contemplates public entities and will have positive impacts on people's lives. It is only a matter of knowing which side of history will be our opposition today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u68	Look, look!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u69	The honourable Member has a request for clarification, although she does not have time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u70	It's the tactic of the habit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u71	It was on purpose!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u72	As Mr Hugo Maravilha of the PSD Parliamentary Group, or to maintain the request for clarification, has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mara Lagriminha, with regard to your draft resolution, of course the PSD will follow it. However, we cannot let the timing of this project become clear. It will present it one year after the entry into force of Law No 2 / 2022, which provides for the extension of the free of charge of day care centres, reveals a disorientation by the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security in the application of the free of charge of day care centres. [[PSD applause.]] It has spent more than a year, but the Minister did not realize the need to extend freeness to responses managed by public authorities. This is just an example of the disorientation and indefinition of the government in this matter. Even yesterday, social communication realized that private daycare registrations are very complicated, precisely because of the rules of gratuity. Families are only entitled to free pay if there are no vacancies in the social or solidarity sector in the municipality where they reside or work. This means that families have to accept a vacancy in the social sector, even if it is 20, 30 or 40 km away, even if there is a vacancy, in a private network, at the door of the house. So, although the concept was that of families can reconcile family life with work, we are forcing families to make 30 or 40 km of travel, when they have a daycare at home. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] On the other hand, we arrived in March 2023 without yet knowing how many are and where are effectively the vacancies available in the social sector and private network day care centers. And why? Because the government has published a list of available vacancies that do not correspond to reality in all the country councils. What seems to us, frankly, and addressing me at the side of the Socialist Party, is that everything is done « to the three pancakes» and « to the knee». Here I would like to ask you, and I would like to leave the matter to you for consideration, whether the extension of the measure of freeness proposed here lacks the same criteria as access to the private network. In other words, does the measure apply only if there is no vacancy in the social sector in the municipality of residence or work? If so, we are already anticipating that this measure will have exactly the same problems as family access to the private network. I therefore believe that they should make it clear whether, indeed, the criterion of this enlargement will be the same as that of enlargement to private day care centres. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u74	At the end of this period of presentation of the various projects of the parliamentary groups, we will now move on to the period of interventions. Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are talking about daycare. In the Government Programme, we shift from the general gratuity to the achievement and, before the inspiring name of "Creche Felis", we see more episodes of propaganda. At the door and at exhibitions—such as those we have witnessed today—we see, read and hear expressions in which we all see each other. But then comes reality: the reality of the non-existence of the public network comes the reality of the low coverage rate, comes the low incentive for opening new day care centres, comes the disregard of the private network, comes the delay in payment to the day care centres that have concluded agreements, causing severe restrictions to these day care centres, comes the lack of data collection — and of all this we have already reported, particularly the Liberal Initiative, here in plenary. Just listen to entities, walk on the ground. In addition, we have had the opportunity to hear, in committee, other problems, particularly those which are reported by Infantcoop (Cooperative of Workers for Child Support) today, for example, by the admission criteria which, because of the priority they invoke, cause brothers not to be in the same institutions or, then, consider that children of employees of the institutions cannot have access to these vacancies. It is clear that this is not understandable, and the question is whether the PS is willing to correct the situation. But we must also ask ourselves how this is possible. It may be said that it is by incompetence, by step, for not being on the ground to hear or whatever, but what matters is that right now is the time to correct. So it will be difficult to understand that these corrections today — I call them'rectifications', I do not call them 'improvements' — are not approved. Another problem is that the decree only allows access to private or solidarity entities without a cooperation agreement when there is a shortage of free vacancies in the daycare facilities of the cooperation system, even if the private is on the street next to it but belongs to a different council. In addition to the government imposing restrictions on freedom of choice for families, the vacancies which they may resort to for free in the private or solidarity sector without agreement may be tens of miles, in particular with families without private transport or with few public transport—in addition to the obvious disturbances—which will be without vacancy or difficulties, even if there is a daycare close to the street. There will then be the beautiful phrases of the interventions or the portals, such as, for example, "to pursue a true family policy", "to make the best interests of the child a primary consideration" or "conciliation of personal, family and professional life", and so many other beautiful phrases, which would be more beautiful if they came out of the paper. The PS proposals today come to make some network expansion, but once again the PS fails to call : go to details, the proposals are relevant, but do not resolve the core of the situation. Finally, we must also report that the programme which was free of charge and would cover 100 000 children does not reach 40 %. I don't know if it's for lack of account, if it's too much propaganda, but unfortunately none of the cases surprises us. Today would be a good day to approve measures that would make daycare, children and families happier. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The question raised here today by the PSD agenda is relevant and is, from a more general point of view, related to a fundamental problem, which has to do with the absence of an effective public network, as well as the fact that child care, especially the smaller ones, is not part of the public school system. We also appreciate and note today, in this debate, the attention that many parents and some associations have brought on this subject to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, the law established a monopoly of the private non-profit sector for the development of social responses in the context of child care, to the extent that neither the authorities nor the schools can have cooperation agreements with Social Security. Today, the PS finally seems to want to take this step further, and what we expect is that, in practice, it is not as long as it is not as time-consuming, and so far, policies, in these matters, have taken time to implement. Having said this, the truth is that the implementation of gratuity, having been a very important step—we have said it before and we continue to say it—, maintains a problem. First of all, linked to the structural problem that I initially referred to, the truth is that those who had no vacancy before, because of the freeness, did not automatically have a vacancy, and this has to do with the absence of a public network of day care centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u79	Secondly, there are obviously improvements which must be placed on the table in relation to this particular decree. in this sense, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we follow the proposals that aim to extend the criteria of coverage, particularly to brothers. There may be other criteria that may need to be extended as far as scope is concerned, but at present these proposals make sense and go for what has been requested by many parents and mothers to this House of the Republic. As far as we are concerned, we will not be able to follow it. Mr President, injustice is the fact that, even today, there is no such public child care network that actually reaches everyone and everyone, regardless of their income, because that does, in this case, discriminate against child care. What we believe in — and I fear - is that the structural solution to this problem is necessarily the construction of a public network that creates these responses and that includes child care as an effective responsibility of the State, included in public school. We hope that in this debate we will be able to take steps to move forward in this direction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u80	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This is a debate in which the parliamentary group that I am a member feels particularly at will. The realization of the free frequency of daycare, which has been progressively extended to thousands of children since 2020, has been possible only by the insistence, by the proposal, by the CFP initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u82	Sure! They didn't even talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u83	... confirmed by the inclusion of the measure in its 2019 electoral programme and followed by the submission of a proposal in the State budget for 2020, as well as several other initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u84	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u85	When, in 2019, the PCP proposed free daycares for all children, many judged it to be impossible, inviolable. It was exactly the same thing with school textbooks, and the truth is, today, they are free up to 12. year.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u88	It was on the proposal of the CFP that in 2020 free daycare began to be applied to the poorest children, covering about 30,000 babies, and it is also as a result of the CFP initiative that babies born after 1 September 2021 are entitled to free daycare, which is a very important step on a path that needs to be made more quickly. However, as long as this measure is not extended to all children, this will not solve the problem. The PCP does not only defend the freeness of day care. Without prejudice to the complementary and relevant role of the institutions of social solidarity, which guarantee a part of the response, the CFP advocates the creation of a public network, capable of providing for the lack of vacancies in Portugal today and which, in practice, constitutes the denial of the right to care and the denial of its gratuitousness to thousands of children and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u90	Freedom takes particular importance in the lives of families and is, we remember, a stimulus to birth. It is a measure with a very positive impact, since it allows a family to be sure to know that, taking the decision to have a child, it has ensured the daycare response and that it is free of charge. Only that children, families, this country needs a public network of foster care that ensures that all babies, and not just a few,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u92	... have access to quality equipment, which ensures that families have guaranteed vacancy, and not hypothetical, and that it is part of a strategy to combat demographic deficit. All studies show that in Portugal, people of childbearing age want to have more children. But this is not simply a decision about comfort issues, and much less about moral issues, it is, of course, correlated with a reality that, in Portugal, is characterized by precariousness, unemployment, the unbearable cost of housing, the lack of decent working conditions, the unregulated schedules and the lack of time to live. With regard to the various initiatives brought today to the discussion, the questions put in them confirm what we have said over the years: it is only possible to achieve the true articulation of professional life with personal and family life with the fight against unemployment and precariousness, with the repeal of the mechanisms that deregulated working hours — such as hours banks and adaptability, intense rotations and night work — as well as the application of the reduction of weekly working hours to 35 hours, complementing the value of wages and better working conditions, which allow working parents to have time to live with their families and to accompany their children. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u93	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u94	Mr President, at the beginning of this debate we have seen an exchange of ideas between PS and PSD, which is very common, at various levels: the PS stressing the progress that is gradually universal free access to day care centres and the PSD saying that while it does not occur, it is necessary to make more use of the social sector, particularly private day care. As such, we remain in a kind of hesitation, because on the one hand, we all realize that for families it can be a great help to have a reduction in costs and the guarantee of access to day care—and, therefore, the private sector appears as a possible savior of a situation where we do not yet have the public network we want—but on the other hand, we must realize that if we turn to the private sector from now on, we will never end up building the public network we need. However, I believe that both the PS and the PSD would probably have the problem more pointed out and to the point of being resolved if they had voted in favour — in particular the PS, to enable it — of the proposal presented by the Free Paper last October, in which it proposed that there should be a lifting of the places effectively existing in the public, in the private, in the social sector and also in the lovers. This is a survey that, let's be frank, has to be dynamic, because this is a reality that is constantly changing, but it would be desirable that every year all parents, mothers and educators could have a portal where the reality actually existed. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] So we could take steps that, from this point of view, are merely factual, informative, are not ideological, but would allow both the left side of this Parliament to defend the construction of a public network and the right side, and legitimately,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u95	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u96	... to defend the coexistence of the public and private, with support also to the private, which the Free does not defend, but, of course, understands that on the other side it defends itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u97	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u98	Madam President, I would like to ask only Mr Freeman and Mrs Left Block Member. They speak in a public creek network, but it's not enough. And what are we going to do until there's a public breeding network? Are we going to leave the families and the children to the god-give? Would it not be better to use private people to help these families? The fear that the left and the extreme left have of the private is demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u100	The private are there to help, and you have to admit it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u101	Mrs Mara Lagriminha asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u102	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u103	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u104	Mr President, in view of the fact that several parliamentary groups have expressed a lack of knowledge about a subject which is already regulated through the door—and that it has to do with the access of brothers under preferential conditions, this situation which is already resolved and regulated—I would like to ask that it be distributed to the parliamentary groups, in particular the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, to the Portaria No 75 / 2023, published on 10 March, which is already taking place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u105	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes asks for the word for what effect? Is it for the end of the debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u106	Madam President, even before the closure, and as a result of what we have just heard, I would also like to make an inquiry to the Bureau because I think the truth has to be restored. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u107	Madam Member, we are not going to be changing arguments now. If you are to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u108	Madam President, it is to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, because the truth has to be answered. In fact, it was good that the Bureau could distribute my speech, so that the Socialist Party's Member would check that what she said was also said by the PSD, i.e. that the government had already come late to set the criterion for the brothers, but left out the children of the employees. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u109	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We're not going to be raising any more arguments. Everyone knows the documents that have been mentioned, so we will proceed to the end of the debate. To that end, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, there are some notes that need to be left. I would therefore like to leave a first note on the broad consensus on this subject, about the need for the measure of the free of charge to be effective and efficient. But, having heard some speeches this morning, it is important that some things also be clarified. First of all, Mr Rui Tavares has to clarify and say that whoever proposed a draft resolution for the lifting of existing vacancies at national level was the PSD, the draft resolution which was approved unanimously. [[PSD applause.]] What has happened is that the government has done nothing, so we have also come to demand that the government follow up on this draft resolution today. Indeed, we are very sorry that the Socialist Party has not said anything about the PSD proposals because, as I said, it is essential that, once and for all, the necessary justice should be introduced to such an important extent. That is why the PSD has tabled amendments — and the Government must do them — to the criteria for admission of children, from the outset considering the children of civil servants and taking into account that the scope should be by nocturnal, not by council. Again, Mrs Mara Lagriminha asked which side the PSD was on in this story, and I will answer her. Madam Member, the PSD is on the side where it has always been: on the side of children, on the side of families and on the side of justice. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, since there is still some time until the vote, I hope that the Socialist Party will indeed take a position, vote favourably on the PSD proposals and — again, I will finish as I began —... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... to introduce justice to a fundamental extent for children and families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u111	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u112	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u113	Mr President, that is really about the conduct of the work. Please, you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u114	Madam President, because he was mentioned, I would just like to say that the draft law of the Free I referred to—and there is no harm in which several parties want the same thing, which is reliable information... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u115	Mrs. Members, there were other Members who also called on the Bureau and the whole House listened carefully. Therefore, please create conditions so that Mr Rui Tavares can also effectively intervene with the Bureau. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President, otherwise I will be forced to make two requests for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u117	Go away!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u118	As for Bill No. 294 / XV / 1. I will not ask the Bureau to distribute it, because it is accessible, but I would like to point out, for the Members and Members who want to access it, that it is in the system of Parliament. [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u119	We move on to point three of our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of Bill 485 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Place the costs incurred by the employer in contributions to social security and, by drag, 616 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Alter the Labour Code, increases the information available to workers on behalf of others in the receipts of salaries. [[Continuation of CH protests.]] Mrs. Members on my right, please create conditions so that we can continue our work. [[Pause.]] To submit Bill No. 485 / XV / 1. a ( IL), Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative presents today a draft law to place in the salary receipt of workers on behalf of others the costs incurred by the employer in the context of contributions to social security. Workers on behalf of others are engaged in a paid activity at the service of an employer, and, in combination with the salary, there is a tax rate of 34, 75 %, corresponding to workers 11 % and the employer remaining 23, 75 %. However, although this value is paid by the employer on behalf of the worker, this does not have direct knowledge of this discount that the employer makes on his behalf. The truth is that many workers are not even aware of these values. In the earnings receipts it is explicit the discount of the 11 % said that the worker makes for Social Security, but the share of the employer is not, and our proposal is just for this to be changed. This value of 23, 75 % is not considered part of the worker's gross salary, but is part of the labour costs, and the company delivers it to Social Security — notes! — on behalf of the worker. The Liberal Initiative therefore argues that this value is explicit in the maturity receipt. thus, there will be several advantages: workers will be more aware of the values borne by the employer, considering the value of the social contribution, and the perception of the cost of social benefits will also make the citizens more demanding with the state's own spending, promoting greater transparency and information to the worker, as well as scrutiny, both for the employer and for the state. In our view, it makes no sense that there is a distinction between these two words. I reiterate that both are delivered on behalf of the worker. Both are labour costs and both are paid on their behalf. This is also a measure that fulfils the spirit of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1152, which, if noted, is already a practice in other countries. Thus, the Liberal Initiative considers that in order to fulfil the spirit of the article of the original law, with the advantages of transparency, scrutiny and literacy, Article 276 should be amended. that of the Labour Code, becoming mandatory which consists of the costs incurred by the employer in respect of the contributions he makes on behalf of the worker for Social Security. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u121	To make the presentation of Bill No. 616 / XV / 1. Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The receipt of a due is a mandatory document provided for in Article 276 ( 3 ). the Labour Code. It has several mandatory headings, however, in our view, can and should be improved with the inclusion of new items. Having this in mind, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival presents Bill No 616 / XV / 1. the, which, in addition to the maintenance of existing headings, proposes to add new headings to the maturity receipt, including the inclusion of the employment accident policy, which aims to become compulsory. We know that some receipts, because some companies have decided so, have this heading and we propose that it become compulsory. Also the identification of the mode of the contract in force—if it is concluded, if it is without termination, without link, i.e. being an effective employee—because this allows that worker, in his daily activity and relationship with the bank, to open an account, for a request for financing or even for renting a house, does not have to ask the company for a declaration of his employment link. The salary shall be almost one employee's BI (identity card). We also propose the inclusion of social security discounts in the current year. In addition to the consecrated IRS, which already exists there, we also propose that the discounts for Social Security, and its accumulated, consist of the same receipt. The contributions made by the employer to Social Security should also be reflected in this receipt. Many times, workers wonder why they receive so little. They may thus find the explanation and realize that it is not the company that pays badly, but it is the state that has a lot. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are proposals that, in our understanding, make the receipt of workers more complete, manifest the reality of what their work is and enable them to make life easier for them in their daily relationship with other entities or institutions. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u123	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the period of submission of the bills under discussion. We have moved on to the intervention period and to this end I have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u124	Mr President, on a supposed interest in workers' awareness of the employer's duties, the Liberal Initiative brings this proposal to us, in which we would even agree that the employer's costs were in fact paid off, but we cannot agree with its intention. Indeed, we look at the exposition of reasons and do not make any sense to us that, instead of focusing on what is a heavy burden on the Portuguese people, particularly on the business fabric from the point of view of taxes, because we agree that there is indeed an excessive tax burden in our country, even to what happens in other countries — they also in some way seek to embolise workers, to whom we need only to call 'collaborators' instead of 'employees', for awareness.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u125	Workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u126	And Mrs Carla Castro does not make that face, read the explanatory statement of her initiative, because that is what is actually there, and with that we cannot agree. Indeed, it is a reality that the employer pays more than 23 % to Social Security, but putting on the shoulders of those who already work and it is also tax burdened, with an even significant slice that does not go to pay is that it does not make much sense to us. Therefore, we cannot support this initiative, which is uniquely and exclusively because of its underlying intention, even though, for reasons of transparency, we believe that this should indeed be the subject of the receipt of maturity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u127	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating two proposals which, in fact, have no practical use and, in fact, have very little meaning.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u129	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u130	And it seems to us, or rather, we are sure that they serve a demagogic project.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u131	The Block's better! The Block is really good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u132	We are going to the issue of transparency, which was mentioned here by Mrs Carla Castro. Member of Parliament, transparency with regard to the operation of companies and the payment of wages, for example, would be to adopt measures on wages. Transparency would be that an administrator of a company would not win in a month what a worker of that same company took 10 years to win. Transparency is not to put, or want to put, a value that is paid in the maturity receipt — and well! — by the employer and who is actually not part of the worker's remuneration. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it seems that we are here discussing things that are not public knowledge! The purpose of the employee's salary receipt is to inform the worker of the amounts actually received in respect of remuneration benefits and discounted values. And this value of 23, 75 %, which is paid by the employer, does not enter into this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u133	It's the employer's social obligation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u134	So, either we want to comply with the law, or we completely don't know the law, and we're here inventing things to respond to an ideological project, effectively. The gentlemen. Members spoke on the question of wages, and that is, indeed, the objective behind the two bills presented. The problem is not what employers pay—and good! — social security for workers, the problem is that employers in Portugal pay a lot of money. The wages are low, in Portugal. Therefore, we should be here discussing measures on effective wage increases and not whether workers know or do not know — until it is in law and everyone knows! — the percentage paid by employers to social security. And the workers also pay their share. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate and these proposals have no purpose, they have no meaning but to respond to an ideological campaign in which the most conservative right and the most liberal right are, here, always by hand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u135	The Bureau recorded an inscription requesting clarification from the honourable Member. In order to make this request for clarification, Mr Filipe Melo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u136	Mr President, the honourable Member has criticized the two initiatives of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. I've been looking for yours to try to criticize her, but I haven't found her.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u137	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u138	Certainly, in this and other projects, the Left Block, for ideological reasons, refrains from participating in the debate, but all debates are of high importance for Portuguese families and companies. She speaks in transparency, but she is wrong to speak in transparency when comparing the order of the administrator and that of the workers of these companies. It refers to a month's salary as I do not know how many years' wages of the worker — at 10 years' time — but it is your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u139	It's the data! It's the statistic!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u140	Mr. Member, what do you say about merit? What does he say to whom he worked, to whom he worked, to whom he gave everything, to whom he invested in himself, in his training, so that one day he could reach the administrator? Where's the merit for the Left Block? It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u141	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u142	Mrs Deputy, I would like to ask you again: is that Portugal or, in your idea, is again Cuba or Venezuela, in which everyone must receive the same, regardless of the merit they have? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u143	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u144	Mr President, honourable Member, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative look at a salary receipt from those who earn the national minimum wage and think that the problem is that the 23, 75% of them are not represented there that the employer has to pay. Employers have social responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u145	Read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u146	It's not worth lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u147	The wages are low! We don't want to make it any easier!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u148	What is envisaged in the law is already absolutely clear and, therefore, the problem we have and the demagogy that is being done here by the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative is that they do not want to debate what matters and that it is the wages to be low in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u149	They're all the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u150	On this point, Mr. Deputies, the arrival is always next to the most lucrative person. We are going through a crisis in which profit margins continue to rise, wages don't go up and there's nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u151	That cane is worn out!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u152	They prefer to be for fact-severe and for projects that have absolutely no meaning for workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u153	Increase the wages of Block workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u154	To give an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group recognises the extreme importance of the duty of information in labour relations, but, in fact, the proposal of the Arrival does not add anything to the legally protected rights and interests of both workers and employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u156	Yours is better!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u157	I would even say that the arrival comes in complete contradiction here, because on the one hand, it criticizes — and well — the Government, saying that Portugal is one of the countries most penalising companies with taxes and taxes, but on the other hand it brings us a proposal that imposes more legal obligations and more costs on companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u159	From now on, because this proposal presupposes increased costs in the face of the need for changes in the receipts of salaries and also of their software programmes, but also because it imposes more legal obligations, the failure to comply with which determines the application of very high fines. This is the case with information on the employment accident insurance policy. As you are well aware, the Labour Code is already contained in Article 106. , the duty to provide information on relevant aspects of the employment contract, in particular information on the insurance policy. And in the current legal order it constitutes counter-ordination the violation of this duty—in fact, it is punishable with fines that can go up to 9690 €. With this amendment, the Commission intends that, in addition to this duty which has already been imposed on the employer, this information will be included in the receipt of the salary. In other words, it not only imposes more obligations as employers in new counter-ordinations, because the lack of mention of the insurance policy in the maturity receipt would become a punishable counter-ordination with fines that may amount to up to 1530 €. I therefore conclude by saying that the arrival actually comes in contradiction because it criticizes — and well — the government when it says that Portugal is one of the countries that is most penalizing companies, but then it brings to this House proposals which aim to create more legal obligations and more costs for companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u160	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u161	Mr President, when we talk about Social Security, I sometimes see the very focused focus on the issue of costs and not sufficiently on the fact that Social Security is a civilized mark. Society not only leaves monuments for the future, it leaves marks of compassion, cohesion, solidarity among its citizens. Tell the workers that for every 100 € gains, 1 € of the worker and 2 € and little of the boss means that there is money reserved for the disease, for unemployment, for old age, that is a brand of civilization. It is difficult for me to see in the proposal of the Liberal Initiative a confusion between Social Security and the State. It is said at some point: « The knowledge of the real contribution each one makes to social security will make the citizens more familiar and demanding with state spending. Now, social security is something different from the normal state expenditure and it is good that we do not make this confusion. But the Liberal Initiative believes that information is power and we agree. Only then, in this case, is there no ambition for the Liberal Initiative. Why not include in the salary receipt the average income generated by each worker in that month? Why not include, in the month when the annual accounts of the company are closed, the average profit generated by each employee? Yes, information is power, and if the receipt of maturity had what workers generate for companies, perhaps, it would be interesting to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u163	I conclude, Madam President. At the time when the union will negotiate wage increases or when the worker will talk to the employer, it would be interesting that each worker also had, as an economic agent that is, the total information about the profit he generates, the income he generates for the company for which he works.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u164	Mr Gilberto Anjos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival bring to this House today are a good example of how far the parties on the right of the Socialist Party's vision are from the protection and defence of workers. For these parties, the answer to the difficulties of workers is to clarify in the receipt of maturity the contribution that the employer gives to Social Security. For the Socialist Party and for workers, what is really important is not the amount of the contribution given by the company to Social Security, but the actual wage that the worker receives in his account at the end of the month. Using the horn often used by extreme-right parties, what workers who take the national minimum wage, and who are seeing us there at home, want to know is that the amount that is present today in their salary is €760 and not, for example, the €505 they received in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What workers want to know is that, next year, they will have at least €810 in their salary; that in 2025 they will have at least €855 in their salary; and that at least €900 in 2026 they will have at least €900 in their salary. What workers want to know is that the government, with the medium-term agreement to improve wages and competitiveness, has led us to have consistent wage policies in terms of the value of income and the reduction of wage disparities, focused on the valuation of the average wage, making today the average wage in Portugal above that which was taken in 2015. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed important to be included in the receipt of a salary for the workers. And that is also what the Socialist Party defends. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, behind these proposals there is also an objective with which the Socialist Party does not compact, the objective of devaluation of the social contract established with the citizens, publishing the charges and not publishing the protection that the social state confers on all Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what matters also to workers, as regards the contributions and contributions paid by the employer to Social Security — which the Liberal Initiative, ideologically, would like to destroy — is knowing that, in the case of illness, collectively, Portuguese are organized through the social state to protect them when they need them; that the State will be present, protecting them in parenthood, when they decide to have children; that the social state protects them in the event of unemployment or disability;...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u166	It's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u167	... and that when the time comes for you to retire, the State will be there to ensure your well-deserved pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u168	They're going to give 200 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u169	instead of detailing the contributions of the employer, perhaps the salary receipt should discriminate against the TSU (unique social rate), which promised to support in 2022 154 000 workers benefiting from parental protection, 242 000 workers with child care protection, 1, 9 million workers with disease protection, 380 000 beneficiaries of unemployment protection, about 3 million pensioners per old age, survival and disability. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was also with the TSU, during the pandemic, that it was possible to support 3, 5 million people, 180 000 companies, with a total of 4, 6 billion euros of support paid and 5, 3 billion euros of contribution exemptions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that are examples of simplified layoff, support for progressive recovery and incentive to normalization of the activity, exceptional support to the family, low by prophylactic isolation, low by covid-19, supplementary family allowance and extension of the RSI (social income of insertion), support for reduction of activity and situations of deprotection, complement of stabilization and extension of unemployment benefits. In addition, the proposed legislation is intended to amend the Labour Code when structural amendments to the Labour Code have been promulgated this week as a result of months of work and dialogue with the Dignified Work Agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u171	The proposing parties refused to participate actively in this headquarters, and then put forward appreciable proposals such as these,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u172	Who wrote that?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u173	...not to strengthen workers' rights, but simply to create noise. The social state, which the Socialist Party defends every day, is truly important for workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u174	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u175	In fact, the social state will still be important today, with the measures to be presented by the Government for families. This is the social contract concluded by Portugal with the workers and, although it does not appear on the maturity sheet, the workers know that they can count on it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u176	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The information on contributions and income taxes, both on the part of the worker and on the part of the employer, is public and therefore seems unnecessary to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u179	We all know what the rate is, we know what the percentage of the employer's responsibility is and what the worker's responsibility is. There is no new information intended to be introduced in these projects and therefore we see no interest in their inclusion. The salary receipt, as provided for in the Labour Code, contains the information necessary for the worker to know the components of his salary, from pay to deductions from the responsibility of the worker, such as 11 % of the TSU. The costs of the employer's responsibility do not include nor should they be included in the salary receipt, because they are not imputable to the worker and because the receipt does not contain any other costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u181	We're talking about a due date, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about an account report.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u183	That's right! [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u184	It is no less curious that the Liberal Initiative — especially the Liberal Initiative — which advocates simplification of procedures and information, the Simple, the disburocratisation, then, when it is to attack workers' rights, already defends the detailing of information, the pretext for clarification which is no more than creating the false idea that workers are one of the main components of business costs and that employers have to bear a huge cost with workers. To put these elements in the winning receipt not only creates confusion as, above all, it intends to convey the false idea that the boss has very high costs to hire a worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u185	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there was nothing left! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this stage of the debate, the PSD reaffirms, with this intervention, the need for predictability and stability in relations and labour law. The discussion of the draft laws under consideration takes place three days after the President of the Republic has given green light to the amendments to the Labour Code and related legislation adopted by this Parliament. The latest amendments adopted and promulgated by Mr President have not yet been published in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, and they are already at risk of becoming obsolete.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u190	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Code is 14 years old and we are now going to the 23rd amendment to this Code. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u191	It seems to us that the Reach and the Liberal Initiative are presenting something for, in the end, to remain all the same. If the intention of the Arrival was, as they say, to print more ethics and transparency and if that of the Liberal Initiative was a greater awareness of the contributions and contributions to Social Security, why did not these same proposed amendments in the context of the discussion, in particular, of the amendments to the Labour Code, which were still adopted last February? You don't get it! [[PSD applause.]] Besides, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the article on the duty of information to the worker, as has already been mentioned by my colleague Mrs Ofélia Ramos, has tabled amendments by other political parties in the discussion on the speciality. And -- don't worry! — in the case of the Liberal Initiative, they had already indicated this will. Why did they not really enter into this discussion at the time of the specialty? It's late for the debate. [[PSD applause.]] ... presenting your bill even after we finish all this discussion. We reaffirm the need for stability and predictability in labour legislation. In fact, the Governor of Banco de Portugal, Mário Centeno, in an interview with the Journal of Business, referring to the behaviour of the labour market, affirmed the need for us to care and how. I quote Mr Governor: "Not putting too much pressure on the labour market, legislative pressure, pressure on costs, so that companies can maintain this level of employment and so that Portuguese can pass through this stage with the levels of wage mass distributed today. Do not keep on seeking. ” In conclusion, Madam President, we do not follow the political agenda of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. It does not have the PSD to create legislative instability and instability in companies or to approve additional costs for companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u192	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by recalling, because there seem to be some more neglected cases here, which, in the Social Security budget, there is a growing share of transfers from the State budget due to the insufficiency of contributions and contributions from workers and employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u195	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, on the alleged interest, I tell her that for the Liberal Initiative, yes, literacy, rights and information are always in the interests of workers and that expressions such as "diabolic workers" are inadequate, either in relation to the Liberal Initiative or in relation to the legislative initiative. That is why I give you back the expression, not to tell others what to do, which is to read their own initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u197	Regarding the Left Block, transparency and workers' right would be something I would be expecting to see being defended by your party, despite having different notions of what that means. Discounts made by the employer on behalf of the worker, yes, it is transparency—...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u198	Everybody knows how much it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u199	...transparency, literacy, scrutiny. The honourable Member has said, in particular, that it makes no sense, almost in an offensive tone, appealing to the knowledge of the law, so I will remind both the Left Block and the CFP, which is included in the technical notes of our Committees, and I will now read Article 236 ( 3 ). o: « The employer is intended to inform the worker, where the employer has to pay his remuneration, of a set of elements to which the employee himself may use until judicially». If you think that this information is not useful, particularly for the worker, we have different considerations, which, in fact, is not very strange either. With similar information, it is also said: "It is permitted that the worker controls not only his remuneration, in particular by measuring the discounts or deductions to the same performance and that the information worker needs to join in order to confirm whether he has been registered in Social Security and what the deductions were actually delivered. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u200	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u201	I conclude, Madam President, by saying: once again, if it is not important information for the worker, for the Liberal Initiative it is! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u202	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u203	Madam President, Mrs Helga Correia, with all the respect I have for you, you say that you are late for the debate. I may even give you your statement cheaply, but the PSD didn't even come here.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u204	Good! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u205	In fact, as has been the habit of many matters, the PSD does not appear in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u206	That's the one! [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u207	Mrs Ofélia Ramos, saying that, by adding more items in receipts, the companies will go into non-compliance, then the Member is defending that companies are failing to pay fines. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it is good to know that, in addition to not supporting the proposals of the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, they support the PS and are in favour of non-compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u208	The custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u209	It is clarified in relation to the PSD. Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, I realized that the government's disembarkation is already on your bench, has already arrived at the socialist bench, because, please notice, about a project in which you are talking about receipts, Mr. Member, of the rostrum, you speak in vault, in pensions... You mix everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u210	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u211	Mr President, I will conclude, but, with due respect, if we have only representatives of the party that duplicate intervention time, tolerance for us may be a little more.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u212	That is not true, as you know, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u213	I shall now conclude, Madam President. Mr President, you say that the workers do not want to know what they are receiving and how much the company is discounting. Do you want to know how much you're going to receive a pension? Ask the pensioners here how much do you receive your pension: about €200 or €300 that you pay them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ask the war veterans, who have given so much for this country, the miserable pension you give them. Is that what they want to know? No, they have the right to know how much they receive, how much the company pays, how much the company discounts and what it no longer gives.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u214	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u215	I will even conclude, Madam President, just to say the following: the government that you support has imposed on companies by 2026 they have to pay 20 % higher.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u217	They forgot to say that the government was not going to raise taxes and that everything was going to be on top of the companies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u218	Mr. Deputies used another one minute and 38 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u219	Do you want to compare the proportion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u220	The rules are only for the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u221	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u222	Mrs Helga Correia, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u223	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u224	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u225	It is only to ask the President to distribute to all political parties all the amendments tabled by the Democratic Social Party in the discussion of the Labour Code, as well as the report of this work, so that the Party comes to realize that the PSD, as well as all the political parties, actually presented proposals in this respect. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u226	Mr Manuel Loff of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u227	Mr President, there is, above all, in the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, this kind of underground basic complaint, which we do not follow, on "poor employers, how much they spend paying workers", in a country where we know that the problem is obviously lower wages. [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] Now, my question is, are you worried? Oh, my God! Mrs Carla Castro expressed it quite well, saying, among other things, that the project of the Liberal Initiative was concerned to give even more rights to workers, for example in the field of labour justice. All right, so let me ask you one question: why don't you want to write the gains and profits obtained by employers with the work of each of them? Why is it not included, if you want, a dividend distribution ratio, for example? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u228	Are you crazy? Oh, my God! They've gone all the way! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u229	You only protect the richest! [[CH Protests and counterprotests from PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u230	We have completed the period of intervention and have moved to the closing phase. [[Pause.]] The ladies and gentlemen. Members will create the conditions for this. To close this debate, Mrs Carla Castro, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I reiterate that the Liberal Initiative argues, yes, that the whole of the contribution rate is given to social security on behalf of the worker — i.e. the 34, 75 % and not only the 11 % of the worker — i.e. all of it explicit in the receipt of salary. The Liberal Initiative argues that this measure brings greater knowledge, yes, of the tax and contribution revenue that falls on labour income. It is important to associate the issue of literacy, transparency and more information power with the worker to a greater awareness of the costs of work. Mrs. Members, it is an existing practice in other countries, such as Spain and France. It should be remembered that, associated with maturity, there is this contribution rate. It is an effective cost of work that they are not aware, most of the time, of workers. It is important to have this information so that they can take advantage of their rights. It is important to be explicit, so that there is a greater scrutiny by the employer or the State, to know whether the actual cost-benefit of both State expenditure and social security. The spirit of the law is also respected, giving information to the worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u233	Secondly, and because it has already been mentioned here, I would like to talk about the awareness that there must be a difference between gross wages, net wages and labour costs. Yes, these are different things, and yes, it is important that there is more and more economic literature at this level too. In relation to labour costs, it is important to remember that Portugal is one of the countries with the highest tax and contribution burden on labour, far above the OECD average ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). In fact, it is the second in the index of the international tax competitiveness of the Tax Foundation and the fourth least competitive country of the OECD, and the countries with higher tax burdens have in practice higher net incomes. It is also important, therefore, to be aware of the values and competitiveness in the labour market because, at the end of history, only with a different economic and social model is that we can have higher orders. For all this, we reiterate that it is important for the worker to be more demanding, more knowledgeable in relation to the employer and the State, having access to more information on contributions that, we remember, are made on his behalf. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u234	We have concluded our agenda item 3. We move on to point 4 which consists of the assessment of Petition No 331 / XIV / 3. a (Luís Manuel Marques Bugalhão et al.) — Review and modification of the military remuneration system, with which various projects were dragged. To submit Bill No. 617 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — The increase in the value of the risk capital of non-contributory life insurance of the military in humanitarian and peace missions outside the national territory is made by Mr Pedro Pessanha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal's participation in international humanitarian and peace missions has been one of the main strategic pillars of Portuguese foreign policy. The national presence in these missions has been fundamental to demonstrate the country's ability to contribute to collective security and to promote Portugal's presence in the world through international alliances and organizations. Thus, and since the 1990s, more than 25 000 Portuguese military personnel have participated in missions abroad, in countries or territories such as Timor-Leste, Kosovo, Angola, Mozambique, Macedonia, Lebanon, Namibia, Bosnia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, Central African Republic, Somalia, citing only those where the presence of national military was more numerous. These missions, although classified as humanitarian or peace, often take place in countries or territories where there are active or latent conflicts, adding more risk to all those military participants. Over the past three decades, 20 Portuguese military personnel have died on these missions, with the number of slightly higher injuries. of these wounded, many of them were disabled for the rest of their lives, as is the case of the military command Aliú Camara who in June 2019 lost both legs in an accident in the Central African Republic. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, he was 23 years old. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is of the most fundamental justice to guarantee the military wounded in these missions, which are completely incapacitated permanently, as well as the families of the deceased, decent compensations that allow them to restore their lives with a minimum of comfort, but above all with financial security. For all this, the Arrival believes that the non-contributory life insurance capital of the military on mission abroad is at this moment manifestly insufficient, especially in the event of death or permanent disability, thus proposing its increase through the change of one of its indexers, as explained in this bill. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u236	To present draft resolution No 399 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines to ensure the effective, uniform and consistent application of the right to the accounting of service assessments to all ex-military persons after entering the Public Administration and Draft Resolution No 457 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Review of the remuneration regime of the armed forces, Mrs Cristina Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u237	It's not Cristina, it's Christiana!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For these days, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union are speeding up measures to address threats and challenges in their defence dimension because of the current context we live, marked by the return of war to Europe, which exposes the urgency and the need to modernise and train the Portuguese Armed Forces, providing them with means and equipment. The Government has serious responsibilities and problems to resolve in this area, which have been recently signalled by the Court of Auditors, which indicates that the amount of implementation of the Military Programming Act was less than the financial implementation of the last eight years, pointing out difficulties in the materialization and building of capacities and projects within the time frame. This at a time when the Prime Minister came to Parliament to say that he likes results. What else? In national defence, what results does this government have? This lack of results in national defence is further compounded by the lack of effective measures to dignify and value the military. There are no armed forces without military forces and the armed forces have been recording a clear and worrying reduction in their effectiveness in recent years due to the enormous difficulties of recruitment and retention. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the current number of effectives, which may even be more than 27 000 military personnel, is probably far from about 32 000 fixed for 2022, for the three branches. This lack of effectiveness has caused various difficulties for the military institution, difficulties that have only been overcome with the great dedication and commitment of women and men who serve our Armed Forces and who today particularly greet us. The bet on attractiveness, the adequacy of recruitment and retention mechanisms, bearing in mind the quality and quantity of effectiveness required for the Armed Forces, will only be achieved by valuing people. In view of these needs, the PSD Parliamentary Group has continuously presented initiatives on this issue and two draft resolutions are under discussion today, revision of the remuneration regime and recommendation to the Government of the right to the accounting of service assessments to all former military personnel. I am taking advantage of complimenting the 7728 petitioners for the review and amendment of the military remuneration system. For more than ten years, the pay system of the military has not changed. It is therefore important to give all those who are already part of the military family worthy conditions for the performance of their missions. The remuneration table for the Armed Forces, with respect to the first positions of the career, is based on a clearly lower remuneration than the security forces and services, a discrepancy which reveals an obstacle to young people's choice for military careers. As such, in order to correct this discrepancy, it is crucial to promote the necessary changes and ensure the valorization of the human resources of the national defence, of all those military currently serving our Armed Forces. [[PSD applause.]] They are an example of the continuing willingness to fight in defense of the homeland, if necessary with the risk of their own life and of subjecting themselves to the risks inherent in the fulfilment of military missions. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u239	To present draft resolution No 446 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Mr John Dias has the floor for the remunerative and social valuation of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome and congratulate the more than 7700 petitioners asking the Assembly of the Republic to produce a legislative measure which revises and amends the rule governing the remuneration system of the military. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is out of respect and consideration for these military people that our debate should focus on what they are asking us to do. In our view, this request has proved to be entirely fair, considering that more than a decade ago the remuneration system of the military is not changed. in this sense, it is necessary that, as the signatories propose, this system is properly revised and valued. In fact, we are discussing this fair demand of the military, at a time when large sectors of the population and workers, the public and private sectors, including doctors, nurses, teachers, education assistants, judicial workers, journalists and other social media professionals, among many others, are fighting for better living and working conditions. It is in this framework that the CFP also presents its draft resolution, supported by the consideration that the pay system of the Armed Forces military, as well as the allowances allocated to the military have not been updated for a long time—there are also situations in which the supplement of the military condition of some military is greater than the maturity of others. Our initiative is also based on the fact that the increase in the cost of living, including the increase in the prices of essential goods and housing, is also negatively reflected in the quality of life conditions of the majority of the military. By the way, it is important to remember that wage stagnation, not the only reason, has contributed significantly to the difficulties faced by the Armed Forces in recent years in relation to the recruitment and retention of military personnel in the permanent framework. The CFP Parliamentary Group therefore proposes that the Government, on the one hand, should update the pay system of the military of the Armed Forces and their respective allowances so as to create fair wage balance conditions between the military of the various patents, on the other hand, and that it should take appropriate dialogue with the professional associations of the military, guaranteeing them the right to representation and collective bargaining, in particular with regard to salaries. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u241	To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the cost of living due to the disproportionate increase in the prices of essential goods and profits of large companies, which are in reverse, has increased social inequalities in society and increased wages. In the case of the military of the Armed Forces, the stagnation of remuneration and injustice between the remuneration of the military is in force. Decree-Law No 296 / 2009 of 14 October 2009 approving the remuneration regime applicable to the military of the permanent frameworks under contract and voluntary arrangements of the three branches of the Armed Forces, needs to be revised and measures to value wages for working conditions and justice within the Armed Forces. With regard, in particular, to the first positions of the career, remuneration is clearly very low, too low to meet the cost of living, and that is something that we all have to recognise. It is a brutal penalty for all young people who choose to enter the Army career. We greet the petitioners and the petitioners, all the military present. The Left Block presents here a project for the review of the remuneration status of the Armed Forces. It is fair that the military also have access to fair and dignified wages for the work they provide to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u243	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin with a word of appreciation and gratitude to the signatories of the petition, more than 7700, which makes the agenda of this debate on matters that have merited our attention and concern and which are related to the review of the pay system of the Armed Forces. Our gratitude and greeting also to the military associations present here. Military life, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in itself a permanent risk factor. Even in times of peace, training for war exercises, arms and explosives are constant risks to the lives of the military. The cohesion and training of the military are of paramount importance to the success of the missions entrusted to them. Our Featured National Forces have been an example of self-denial and competence in different parts of the world, have given clear and unequivocal evidence of their operationality and know-how to grow the esteem and friendship of the populations where their presence has been requested, either on missions of the European Union, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) or the United Nations ( United Nations ). A review of the pay table of the Armed Forces and military personnel was carried out a short time ago, with monthly increases between 52 € and 104 €, adding the supplement of the military condition. It was a social valuation amounting to 11 %, at lower levels of remuneration, and is situated at 2 %, at higher levels of remuneration. As far as lower wages are concerned, rising wage levels in the square category have been promoted, with a positive impact on about 8000 military personnel. Very soon, we know that the review of the Action Plan for the Professionalization of the Military Career will be presented, a valuable policy instrument that will present a timetabled programming and a set of measures and actions focused on the enhancement of military career and the working conditions of the Armed Forces military. In accordance with the Government Programme, very soon, the establishment of the permanent frameworks of the Army and Air Force squares will be approved, another measure of broad consensus, a need identified by the Government to implement, and which will allow direct action on military retention, conferring greater stability in areas and functions of greater technicality and complementarity with the different types of contract. If this is enough and it solves all the problems of the Armed Forces? Of course not. We are convinced that much more will be needed and done at the end of this Parliament, including in a parliamentary dimension. In addition to continuing with the due and important and necessary wage recovery, it is necessary, for example, to improve the habitability of military units, which may happen as a result of the revision of the Military Infrastructure Act. It will be important, for example, to review the Military Service Incentives Regulation by strengthening its capacity to enhance recruitment, retention and reintegration, or also to conclude the review of the disability and disability tables that should be altered to improve recruitment. It is no less important to align the training systems of the Armed Forces with the National Qualifications System, as well as important concrete measures that have an impact on the lives of our military, measures that are simple, but that contribute to the improvement of their working conditions and to their motivation, through improving individual burdens and food. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to say that the Socialist Party and this Government remain attentive and sensitive to the expectations of the armed forces, through contacts with their hierarchys and through their representative associations with whom we want to continue to dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u245	Mr Deputies, you have registered with Bureau two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ask for clarification. I assume you're responding together. [[Pause.]] To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Manuel Afonso, regardless of the promises the Socialist Party is making on this matter, and the Minister of Defence himself has already committed himself to negotiating the review of the remuneration status of military careers and this continues to appear — therefore, promises, as the people say, are full hell! — I would like to speak to you from another situation which is brought here by a PSD project, and the Left Block already has an equal but, however, it has already evolved, which has to do with not the question of the military, but with that of the former military. They are people, men and women, who have served the Portuguese Armed Forces under contract — attention that the contract regime is the regime that prevails for all young people who serve the Armed Forces, because we no longer have, and well, compulsory military service— who have served the country and who have left the Armed Forces. However, when they were part of the public service after serving the Armed Forces, they were not told the assessment they had for the purposes of SIADAP ( Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), of career progression and of paid position in the public service. It is a horrendous injustice that we are able to ask young people to serve the Armed Forces for six or seven years to serve the country with merit and that then, when they enter the public service, they are not recognized that merit they had while serving the country. The Left Block presented a proposal on this in the State Budget, the Ombudsman also voted in favour of these former military personnel and, however, in January, a technical orientation of the DGAEP (General Directorate for Administration and Public Employment) was issued to say that this time had to be recognized, but with elements of inequality: inequality in relation to the time and inequality to which it changed careers. I give you an example of a person I even know well: a fugitive officer who served the country between 2007 and 2013 and, for six years, he was on missions abroad, was decorated. It came out, graduated, integrated the Public Administration into a lower remuneration position, as a technical assistant or as an operational assistant, however, it was able to move to a career as a superior technician, which is the one most equivalent to the remuneration status it had as a fugitive officer. However, the State does not recognize him the time he served as a fugitive—decorated! — for the purpose of a remuneration position in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u247	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u248	I will finish, Mr. President. I wonder whether, in addition to caring for the remuneration status of our Armed Forces, which is extremely low, justice should not also be due to former military personnel who served in the Armed Forces. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u249	The second request for clarification came from the Parliamentary Group of the CFP and, to make it clear, Mr John Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Manuel Afonso, with regard to the political area of the National Defence and the Armed Forces, PS and PSD live in total complicity. In fact, successive PSD and PS governments continue to fail to comply with the status of military status, which then results in afunlation of career progression and stagnation of military salaries. There is also a quite great complicity in what it has to do with the degradation of the living and working conditions of the military, which then also results in difficulties of recruitment and abandonment of the ranks. Finally, there is a very great complicity, which we regret, and in failing to comply with the law of military associabilism. in this sense, I would like to ask Mr Afonso : when do you stop rhetoric? Oh, my God! When do they stop rhetoric and actually pass on the measures necessary to improve the living conditions of the military? I am talking in particular about updating the pay system of the Armed Forces military and their respective allowances. In fact, we can greatly appreciate your service—and we all value it! — but afterwards, the lives of the military, their working conditions, their remuneration conditions are only in rhetoric. It can't be, sir! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u251	To reply, Mr Manuel Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the questions which have been put to me, I answer first to Mrs Joana Mortágua, telling her: Mrs Deputy lacks any information, because on 26 January 2023 the Government issued a Technical Guidance with paragraph 01 / 2023 clarifying, expressly, the process of accounting for the assessment of the ex-militaries concerned. Therefore, the question is answered,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u253	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u254	...it's not just rhetoric, it's therefore action. With regard to the questions put to me by Mr John Dias, I would like to say that he did not seem to have heard the speech he said, because although it was not resolved, the way is going, day by day. In good rigour, I would like to tell you that I am in the military, that I never totally unloaded the camouflage and therefore continue to follow the lives of the military. All that is being done is that conditions are created for military life to be more and more dignity and that our military continue to lend to the nation what they have always done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u255	For an intervention in the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting the petitioners, in particular the associations present here, promoters of the petition. Discussing the Armed Forces today is not just about discussing income or equipment issues at the service of the military. It is so little to discuss abstract sovereignty or past glory. Yes, it is to discuss the role of Portugal in the world and in front of the world, not of any world, but of today's world. Those who still doubt, it has been very clear in recent years that the defence of democracy, multilateralism and a world order is essential in today's world so that countries such as Portugal — small open and tax-free democracies of an interdependent international order — can survive and hope to prosper in common with their partners. Maintaining this world does not solve just with good will, proclamations and sympathetic words. This world, however, remains, through an attitude of constant vigilance, a robust policy of alliances and a degree of preparation and security which, unfortunately, we are not yet capable of fulfilling as a State. In the Liberal Initiative, we believe in the nuclear functions of the State and its valorization as pillars of all others. Defence is one of the first functions of the State, which is therefore inseparable from our sovereignty and the ability to act internationally. Yes, investment is needed and good management is needed. We know that the resources of a State that does not grow in its capabilities, but it fattens, spreading itself for all possible and imaginable functions, are precarious. Therefore, a realistic attitude is required, an attitude that, while not preventing short-term decisions, should focus on planning and setting minimum preparation goals as a country.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u257	Mr President, allow me to interrupt you to ask for a little more silence, because the hearing conditions of the honourable Member are deteriorating considerably. I ask for as little noise as possible so that we can hear each other. Mr President, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, in order to have the country prepared, the first goal must go through the mere fulfilment of the planned number of military in the Armed Forces, as there are 5,000 missing, and there is no way to look for them, for more recruitment campaigns to be made. We therefore defend that there is a joint effort to value careers in the Armed Forces, a first basic step in updating these careers, when life has increased and incomes elsewhere in the economy have risen. We will therefore not be opposed to any project that comes in this direction and is realistic. Finally, we will ensure that the debate does not remain here: the very necessary quadrennial review of the Military Programming Act is near and we will therefore be attentive to the meaning that it may or may not have in the valorization of our Armed Forces. We will also be committed to the much-needed debate on the attractiveness and valorization of the military career, not only on the pay side, but also on the agileization and its connection with civil society, one of the angles that we consider essential in the sustainability of our Armed Forces. All this for what? So that the military, like those here today, can look at the many young people who are next to you in these galleries and see that they look to the Armed Forces as a possibility for the future as a career. And today, these young people do not look to the Armed Forces as a possibility for the future. That is how we must all work for the future of this country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u259	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u260	Mr President: I begin by greeting the petitioners—including those who accompany us today—not only on the subject of the debate, but also because this is a subject that this House has repeatedly addressed, whether in the context of the discussion of the State budget itself, with various initiatives, or when we discuss the Statute of the Old Combatant. Although they are different subjects, we must not forget to mention them. On the one hand, because the inflationary crisis and the cost of living have made the same wage a lower wage, which is also reflected in the career of the Armed Forces. In order for young people to choose to enter this career, it is essential to ensure that they can do so without jeopardizing the conditions of their own autonomy. On the other hand, the challenges that today the context of the war presents to us are different challenges, either through humanitarian cooperation, either within the framework of peace-building actions or at times like what we have recently been through the pandemic, where the Armed Forces were an essential element in ensuring assistance to the populations. But it is this context of war that we are living in that must remind us of what we all, perhaps, have almost guaranteed, that it is the fact that the former fighters are somehow linked to a certain moment of history. And unfortunately not. It must be ensured that, in addition to the attractiveness and the remuneration system currently applicable, there is a continuation of the work that has been done with the approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant brought here by the NAP and other political forces, so that today's combatants can, in future, also have access to the same conditions of health, reform and support for themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u261	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u262	Mr. President: I also greet the petitioners. It was more than 7000 signatures, at a time when the military active in Portugal will certainly not reach 30 000. In fact, this has already been said here today; there are no right numbers. Between the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Armed Forces, the number of military active in Portugal ranges from 23 000 to 27 000. A petition with this amplitude therefore represents a very large universe of the military in the active and their families. It is also a warning that it is to establish justice in the times that run. At the time this petition was delivered in 2021, it had been 10 years without the remuneration system being revised. Now, even more. And we discussed this petition on the day when we learned that the deficit was not at 1, 9 % that the government had predicted, not at 1, 5 % that the Council of Public Finance had, at some point, fallen down, not at 0, 5 % that we were still here today, but at 0, 4 %. That is, there is a strike to do justice to the careers of those who give the country, and this strike, as we have seen last year, is what helps the economy to grow at a time of recession. Therefore, it is not only fair but also appropriate and timely that demands such as military, security officers, teachers and other public officials are finally met. They've been waiting a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u263	Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to note that the petition and the initiatives here I appreciate touch on one of the most critical points that affect our Armed Forces right now. I am referring to the difficulty of the military institution to capture and, above all, to retain the effectiveness within it. This difficulty puts us in a situation already considered critical, and it may be at stake, not only the missions assigned to the armed forces at national level, such as the commitments made with our partners and allies. From 2011 to 2019, we saw an alarming trend in the loss of effectives, in which, every year, significantly 1,000 military abandoned the Armed Forces. This rate of exit was only interrupted by the pandemic crisis in 2020 when the Government decided to extend the military contracts that ended that year. To the end of the measure, in the first half of 2021, the effectors decreased again. Thus, between 2016 and 2021, the total effect of the Armed Forces decreased by 8 %, with a special incidence in the square category, which decreased by approximately 20 %. Several studies from the Ministry of National Defence and the three branches of the Armed Forces show that there are transversal causes to the Army, the Air Force and the Navy that are preventing not only an adequate recruitment flow, as they are boosting the early exits of our military institutions. These causes are, and in order of importance, the following: low wages, lack of professional recognition, reduced professional valorization and, above all, lack of career expectations.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u266	of the mentioned causes, the low wages stand out in all studies and in all branches, having been the main reason invoked for the lack of attraction and early withdrawal of military life. This conclusion is easy to understand if we take into account that the wages of categories and posts hierarchically lower are equivalent to the national minimum wage, not being difficult for the private sector, as it is obvious, to offer better wage conditions than those offered by the Armed Forces. Thus, and already presented the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act, we hope that the Government will move forward as soon as possible for a thorough and comprehensive review of military careers and that all the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic will be called upon to make their contribution to a structural matter in the policy of our national defence. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u267	The last recorded speaker is Mr Francisco Pimentel of the PSD Parliamentary Group, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Come my intervention on draft resolution No 399 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which recommends accounting for the assessment obtained by former military for the purpose of awarding the remuneration position under SIADAP ( Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ). This subject deserves two comments from us. A first satisfaction and congratulation to ex-Militaries themselves, by exercising their active citizenship in claiming compliance with this right, and also to the Ombudsman's Office, for the opportunity and success of their institutional intervention in the realization of this same right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u270	A second note of condemnation and even perplexity for the perverse, evasive and regrettable form the Government has been conducting in this whole process since the date of the consecration of this right. [[PSD applause.]] This right has been enshrined in Article 22. the Budget Act of 2021. Since the date of the adoption of the standard that required a previous petition with 4500 signatures and a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic. That is, to keep the right enshrined, it took two years. The right was approved and it took more than two years for the Government to comply with Article 22 in a total of four years. the State Budget Act. All this gave time for the PSD to ask, on 13 July 2022, a question and send to the media an information note and for the Ombudsman to have time to issue Recommendation No 1 / A / 2022, of 29 December 2022, to request compliance with this right. It also gave rise to the PSD's opportunity to present draft resolution No 399 / XV / 1. a and culminated in the issue, said the illustrious Deputy Joana Mortágua, of the Technical Guidance of DGAEP ( Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment) No 01 / 2023, of 26 January 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u271	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u272	To conclude, I would say this: so long, so much difficulty, so much resistance and bad will to fulfill a right that the Government itself welcomed and consecrated in the State Budget of 2021! Frankly, it is not understood nor can it be accepted that a government which is committed to modernising and deburocratizing the Public Administration has lost so much time and resisted so much to make the obvious and so simple to achieve, which was achieved through a mere issuance of an administrative guidance from DGAEP. And what did this DGAEP administrative guidance do? He did what was obvious. It matched the former military service time with the service time in terms of SIADAP in public service. This was expected and this could have been resolved, preserving the image of the State as an entity of good, for the sake of justice due to the former military, to the petitioners here present, which I greet. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u273	We have thus concluded item 4 of the agenda and we will enter the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the services to open up the quorum verification period and to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I will now ask whether any of you or any of you present have not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u274	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u276	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u277	All right. These two cases are marked, no other. I ask the services to close the quorum verification period and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum, we shall proceed to the vote. The first deliberation is about the project... Mrs Rita Matias is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u278	Mr President, to say that I have not been able to sign up, but that I am present.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u279	Be registered. He was unable to sign up and is now present. Let us then proceed to the deliberations on the draft vote No 303 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Despite the death of Custodio Freitas. Since this is an old Member, the vote will be read on your bench by Mrs Sara Velez. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall read the draft vote: « He died on March 15, 2023, in the Caldas da Rainha, Custodio João Vila Maldonado Freitas. Born in Peniche on 11 March 1942, at that time his father was imprisoned in a fixed residence regime in that city, as opposed to the Salazar regime, since the two years of age he had always lived in the city of Caldas da Rainha and there he did the primary instruction. He attended Ramalho Ortigão College, Leiria High School, Modern College, in Lisbon, and studied at the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Lisbon. Since very early, following the example of his family (his grandfather and uncles and, in particular, his father), he has become a civic, culturally and politically involved in the life of his city, his region and his country. Again, he assumes himself as an anti-fascist, participating in the Congresses of the Democratic Opposition, in which he joins the Committee on Young Contingents. He was a member of the Pro-Association, having been arrested at the exit of the Technical Higher Institute. He accompanied the attempt to strike on 16 March, with particular involvement in supporting the women of the captains and the information, giving a statement on this movement to Belgian television. He was a member of the Association 31 January, the Association 5 October and the Association 25 April, contributing to the preservation and enhancement of the political ideals that guided these historic milestones. He enrolled in the Socialist Party ( PS ) in 1974, integrating several times the political commissions concelebrated and district, as well as the National Commission and the National Political Commission of the PS. He served as a member of the Assembly of the Republic in the V legislature, elected by the Leiria circle, joining the Parliamentary Health Commission. The fight for the ideals in which you have always believed is one of the hallmarks of your entire course. He has always been able to affirm and defend his principles and convictions with argúcia and firmness, without ever losing, however, urbanity and elevation. His whole journey was marked by fidelity to the values of Freedom, Equality and Fraternity, which illuminated his whole life and by which he was always beaten. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Custodio João Vila Maldonado Freitas and presents sympathy to his family and his friends. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u281	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the family members of our former colleague Custodio Freitas here present, to whom I address the condolences on behalf of the whole Parliament. We now move on to the Vote Project No. 305 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CH, IL, BE and L ) — To regret the death of Rui Nabeiro. I ask the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on March 19, Rui Nabeiro, extraordinary entrepreneur, endowed with an unusual social sensibility, who farmed the respect and admiration of the Portuguese. Manuel Rui Azinais Nabeiro was born on March 28, 1931, in Campo Maior, having come to die in Lisbon at the age of 91. Between these two events, and with only the primary education completed, Rui Nabeiro built one of the most successful businesses in Portugal — the Delta Cafés —, strongly implanted in his native land. This would already be sufficient grounds for public recognition. But Rui Nabeiro was much more than a traditional businessman. He was someone who had a genuine social conscience and understood business activity as an effort for the common good. Rui Nabeiro was a great employer, friend of his workers, author, and president of the Municipal Chamber of Campo Mayor, and an exemplary citizen. A figure whose journey of life has long been a cause of admiration, which everyone should inspire. He assumed socialistism, largely because he grew up in a region, the Alentejo of his childhood, where, he said, “people felt that there was no future for their children. ” This shaped his humanist and solidarity profile, his concern for his neighbor, particularly for the children of his land, who served as a businessman, autarch and a citizen. As it was public and notorious since the news of his death, Rui Nabeiro misses so many of those who had the privilege of knowing and being touched by his professionalism and generosity. The recognition of its business and civic activity reveals itself in multiple public distinctions, such as in the award in 1995 by the President of the Mário Soares Republic, of the rank of Commander of the Civil Order of Agricultural Merit, Industrial and Commercial Industrial Class, or in 2006 by President Jorge Sampaio, of the degree of Commander of the Order of Infant D. Henrique. He was also distinguished with the Doctorate Honoris Causa by the University of Évora, by Lusophona University and, more recently, by the University of Coimbra. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Rui Nabeiro, recalling the unique figure as a businessman and citizen, and addressing his family, friends, as well as the people of Campo Maior, the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u283	under Article 75. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, there are two parliamentary groups who wish to take the floor in this draft vote. I give the floor to Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, by the PS Parliamentary Group, asking not to exceed the two minutes of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u284	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament for his vote and congratulate all the Members of the House. Members and family. Commander Rui Nabeiro was a unique man, who had the ability to interpret life carefully, the environment where he was inserted and the people he worked with. I would love to find people in life who added, that kind of people who transmit, in their eyes, honesty, simplicity and an unbreakable will to change the world, and when they crossed in their daily lives, the perfect day happened. Today, we call 'risk capital' ; for him, it was to value talent, invest in human beings and apply this value in their company and society. The Commander had this ability to play, to inspire people. It happened that way with me and with many of my generation and many others before mine. He inspired his friends, his collaborators, and inspired Portugal. The Commander had this ability to inspire people. He had a huge passion for the interior of Portugal, for valuing each land, every village, every place. Selling coffee was important, but more relevant was the attitude each collaborator had with this mission. Mr. Rui and his Delta broadcast humanism. Portugal and the Portuguese over the years considered that Commander Rui Nabeiro and Delta were ours, they were part of Portugal. Despite the success, the success, the public recognition, the Commander viewed each morning as a new beginning, where what he had conquered before was only the responsibility to do even more and better, and he began every day with an immense need to dream, create and distribute. « I am from the Socialist Party because I was born on a poor land», he proudly said, but this conviction never took away his comprehensive view of the importance of each party in building our democracy and development. And when the parties had the ability to understand, for him, it was a joy. He always said to me: "If we all wanted to, we would live in a better world." The best legacy we have from the Commander is, every day, we can put in our lives a part of what Mr. Rui did. On our Sunday tours, I was always told that I had the hope that we could perpetuate everything that he taught us. To Mr. Helena, Mr. João Manuel Nabeiro, the whole family, a hug. in this medium and at this time, he would say with certainty: « Forward, forward, live Portugal! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE, L (on foot) and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u285	It is now written for the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pedro Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u286	Mr President, this is undoubtedly the most difficult intervention I make in a full year. To talk about Commander Rui Nabeiro is to talk about a good man, to talk about a person we all thought was eternal. When we were surprised, last Sunday, by his death, we did not want to believe, because we looked at Rui Nabeiro as that eternal man, with that captivating smile, that smile that marks the history of a large company, a region and a country. We'll never forget that. Life has given me a privilege, which was to have known him personally and have, several times, shared the stories with Commander Rui Nabeiro. A great entrepreneur, who has proved that within the country it is possible to make different, that within the country there is no impossible, that it is possible to make a large company, a large multinational such as the Delta Cafés factory. This was the big test. Mr. Rui, as they dearly treated him, always had some friends in the workers, because he was a friend of the workers. It was probably the only person I know who I've ever heard say wrong. I never heard anyone criticize Commander Rui Nabeiro, and that well expresses the great person that he was. When we touched our shoulders it was to give us advice, good advice, friend advice, and when we followed him, we knew we were on the right path. Rui Nabeiro is a great example for all these young people who are here today in the Assembly of the Republic. He was a big, big, great Portuguese. Campo Major became poorer, Portugal became poorer, died the last of the great Portuguese entrepreneurs. To the messed up family, that hug. [[PS, PSD, CH and IL applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the families and collaborators present here, to whom I address the condolences of the whole Parliament. Now let's do a minute's silence in honor of these two compatriots. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to the appraisal of the Vote Project No. 304 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PCP, BE, L and PSD Member Sara Madruga da Costa ) — Greetings by the centenary of the birth of Alda Nogueira. under Article 75. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, is written for a maximum of two minutes, Mrs Paula Santos, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u289	I'm sorry, Your Honor. I forgot to ask to read the vote first. It was my fault and I apologize, Your Honor. I would ask Mrs Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u290	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last March 19th, one hundred years were completed on the birth of Alda Nogueira, activist and leader of the Portuguese Communist Party, anti-fascist and deputy to the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic. Daughter of workers, Maria Alda Nogueira was trained in Physics-Chemicals, an area where she was a teacher and researcher. The times at the Faculty of Science, in Lisbon, contribute decisively to define Alda Nogueira's life, increasing his activism in women's associations and his active participation in communist organizational structures. Militant in the CFP since 1942 dedicated, with great courage, an important part of his life to the struggle for women's rights and resistance to dictatorship, which would lead him, in the late 1940s, to clandestineness. By integrating the Central Committee of the CFP, it would eventually be held in 1959 by the political police of the Fascist regime, the PIDE. in a judgment that did not respect basic principles of justice (“a farce” like so many others, Alda Nogueira later said), was the first woman in Portugal to be sentenced for political reasons to the heavy eight-year sentence (it would actually pass nine years and three months in prison). From Caxias, he witnessed in several letters the routine of deprivations in which the lack of freedom in prison declines: “I cannot kiss my 5-year-old son and my 70-year-old mother. Natural gestures of affection must be emphasized, intimate conversations stagnant, because in the parliament the networks and the distance separate us from the family and a guard listens to us closely and ostensibly ", he wrote in one of them. With the democracy of April, he returned to Portugal (is, however, abroad), being elected to the Constituent Assembly of 1975 and then to the first four legislatures of the Assembly of the Republic, where he continued his struggle for equality and the dignity of women, particularly as President of the Parliamentary Commission of the Status of Women. In 1988, Alda Nogueira was decorated with the Order of Freedom by the President of the Republic. He died in 1998 at the age of 74. In the cloister of the Palace of Saint Benedict, a stone bust reminds Alda Nogueira as one of the parliamentary badges of the democratic regime. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls this date Alda Nogueira, resistant anti-fascist, woman of April and Member, welcoming, on the date of the centenary of her birth, her civic and political journey. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u291	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We honor Maria Alda Nogueira in the centenary of her birth. We addressed a greeting to your son, Antonio Vilarigues, here with us. Alda Nogueira, intellectual, communist militant, anti-fascist, since early embraces the fight against fascism, for freedom and for democracy, for equality and social emancipation, for peace. It was one of the great builders of April. Member of the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic, firm and untiring in the defence and fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. She would certainly have been a brilliant teacher and researcher. He made an option for the cause of workers and the people, for the defence of women's rights. He's gone. He plunged into hiding, faced with imprisonment and torture. He had a unique journey of enormous wealth, sacrifice and self-sufficientness, as a woman, mother, citizen. It was an example of determination and combativity present in the intervention throughout his life. The course of a struggle, but the course of so many courageous communist and democratic women who, in the harshest conditions of repression imposed by the fascist dictatorship, have not complied with or resigned. They continued the struggle for equality of rights for women, at work, in the family, in social and political life, rights won with the April Revolution and which were enshrined in our Constitution. Alda Nogueira has left us an undeniable legacy of giving to the struggle for the emancipation of women, the liberation of working women from exploitation, the liberation of inequalities and injustices. The legacy that leaves us is an inspiration for the women of our country. In the present struggle, for the guarantee of equality, an effective equality in law and life, for a new society, free from exploitation and oppression of capitalism, for progress, for development, for a future for our country and our people. [[PCP, PS, BE and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u293	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on the deliberate part of this greeting vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome and thank the presence of the family members of Maria Alda Nogueira today in this plenary. We now turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 45 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of law published under the covid-19 pandemic. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CH and IL and with abstentions from the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] This initiative is down to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 240 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease covered-19. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, CH and IL, votes against the CFP and the NAP and abstentions to the PS, BE and L.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 598 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Consecrates the transmission and dissemination of meetings and public meetings of local authorities, amending Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September 2013. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, CH, IL, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions of the PSD and BE.]] Down to 13. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, the Bill No. 608 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March repealing the exceptional and transitional procedural regime justified by the pandemic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 620 / XV / 1. a (L) — Maintains the transitional regime for issuing multi-purpose medical certificate of incapacity for cancer patients and prolongs the validity of multi-purpose medical certificates for disabled persons until delays in medical joints are recovered. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We then generally vote for Bill No. 621 / XV / 1. a (L) — Consider the holding of meetings of bodies of local authorities and inter-municipal entities by means of distance communication. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the PCP and abstentions of the PSD and BE.]] This initiative is down to 13. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote, in general draft Law No 622 / XV / 1. a (L) — establishes an extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines, rates and emoluments in public higher education institutions due to the economic and social crisis caused by inflation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] Mrs Paula Santos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u294	To inform you that we are going to make a written statement of vote on behalf of the bench, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u295	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 512 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u296	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u297	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u298	Mr President, it is to be announced that, with regard to the vote on this bill and the following two amendments — the three relating to the House of Douro — the four Members whom I shall indicate, in alphabetical order, Artur Sovereign Andrade, Cláudia Bento, Hugo Maravilha and João Plata, intend, at the end of the votes, to present a declaration of oral vote, which will be made by me, because they trust me with some boldness, I confess.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u299	Mr President, if I recall the Rules of Procedure, that means that your parliamentary group has to endorse this statement of vote because the oral explanations of vote are from parliamentary groups. So, as long as it does, the parliamentary group freely chooses who will make its statement of vote. We therefore await this information until the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u300	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u301	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u302	Mr President, at the end of the vote on the initiatives on this subject, the PSD, as a parliamentary group, will present a written declaration of vote. With regard to the vote statement now announced by Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade, it belongs to the Members of that region.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Member. In the meantime, we will consult the Rules of Procedure well and communicate what we have to do to comply with this rule. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 386 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statutes of the House of Douro. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] Down to 7. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 612 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the House of the Douro as a public association. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] This bill goes down to 7. the Commission. The PSD has communicated, through Mrs Emília Cerqueira, that it will present a declaration of vote in writing in relation not only to this bill as to the two bills, on the same subject, voted earlier. The general vote of Bill No. 228 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Scheme for the recruitment and placement of psychologists in public educational establishments ( first amendment of Decree-Law No 190 / 91 of 17 May ). [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 623 / XV / 1. a (L) — Determines the duty of higher education institutions to provide mental health services to students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 627 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates a network of psychology services in public schools and higher education institutions and a telephone line of support in higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] Mr. Miguel Matos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u304	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Diogo Cunha, Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u305	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 629 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — See Decree-Law No 190/91 of 17 May, strengthening the placement of psychologists in public institutions of basic and secondary education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u306	It is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the two bills that have just been voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u307	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 431 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensuring access to primary health care and hospital care services in the county of Peniche. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions of the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 443 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts to improve access to SNS in the West. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 9. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 464 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Access to health care in the county of Peniche. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 473 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of health professionals in primary health care in the municipality of Peniche and in the valences of the hospital of Peniche. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 475 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government establish a basic emergency service at the Great Navy Health Centre. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 479 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government pursue improvements in access to the National Health Service in the West. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative is down to 9. the Commission. The general vote on the Bill No 61 / XV / 1 is now being taken. a ( GOV ) — Change the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the EB and with abstentions of the CH, the IL, the NAP and the L.]] The bill goes down to 13. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u308	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u309	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u310	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u311	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now have for the vote a request submitted by the NAP requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 415 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves an exceptional scheme of municipal indebtedness applicable to the costs of dealing with damage caused by the full situations in December 2022. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall immediately proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the Czech Republic, requesting the discharge from the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, without a vote, of Bill 615 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the purpose of collecting the rate of occupation of the subsoil to consumers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bill No. 615 / XV / 1. The Commission shall, in such circumstances, proceed to the date of entry into force of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u312	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u313	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u314	Mr President, we are now checking the votes that had to do with the question of strengthening health services in the West Sea area, and we have appeared in the script twice the draft resolution of the Free, and there was a correction and then one of them was eliminated. There was a lack of services here, notably because one of the projects voting should have been that of the PSD that disappeared from the script, but which should be included in these initiatives. Therefore, we would like the vote to be resumed, as initially would appear.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u315	The drafts are not allowed to disappear from the votes, so this draft which has disappeared must be put to the vote. [[Laughing.]] Mrs Emília is asking for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u316	Mr President, to clarify better: on page 8 of the script that was sent at the beginning of the morning, we had two times the Draft Resolution No 475 / XV / 1. a ( L). There was a notable error in writing here, because one of them should be the PSD resolution project, which does not appear, over time, of the scripts. What we were asking was that the PSD draft resolution be put to the vote, as it should have been from the outset.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u317	Mrs Deputy, with your permission, we will confirm with the services and proceed to the vote on this draft unless this matter is technically clarified. With your permission too, we will continue to follow up the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u318	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u319	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u320	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau to clarify the last vote we have taken on Bill No 615 / XV / 1. A, from arrive. I would like to see if we voted on the draft or the Commission's application for discharge.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u321	Mr President, we voted on the request for a discharge to the Commission, without a vote, that which has been approved unanimously, as is customary. By my cabula, the general vote of Bill No 618 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 624 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishs the possibility of strengthening the funds of municipalities to ensure protection of protected areas, compliance with the provisions of the Climate Bases Act and the implementation of plans to promote affordable rent, accommodation for higher education or young lease, amending Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] We still have the vote on draft resolution No 501 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government clarify the scope of priority criteria for children covered by the Creche Felis programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE, the NAP and the L abstention.]] We have the general vote on Bill No 626 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Change Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, in order to clarify the terms of the free frequency of daycare and the priority of admission of children with siblings to attend the daycare covered by this measure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP and votes against the PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 628 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amends the law approving the progressive extension of the freeness of day care facilities and the love of the Institute for Social Security IP, ensuring compensation to families not covered. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 510 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The territorial scope for the measurement of day care free vacancies is made at the level of parish. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 515 / XV / 1 is now under way. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive extension of the free of charge of day care centres and lovers of the Institute for Social Security, I.P. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 10. the Commission. We also voted for Bill No. 485 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Place the costs incurred by the employer in contributions to social security in the receipt of workers' salaries. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] We then vote, in general, the Bill No. 616 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Alter the Labour Code, increases the information available to workers on behalf of others in the receipts of salaries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote on Bill No 617 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Increases in the value of risk capital of non-contributory life insurance for military personnel in humanitarian and peace missions outside the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 399 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines to ensure the effective, uniform and consistent application of the right to the accounting of service assessments to all ex-military persons after entering the Public Administration. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 446 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the remunerative and social valuation of the Armed Forces military. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We also voted for Resolution Project No 457 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Review of the remuneration regime of the Armed Forces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now have the vote on draft resolution No 509 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government review the remuneration regime applicable to the military of the permanent frameworks and under contract and volunteering of the three branches of the armed forces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u322	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u323	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u324	Mr President, it is in order to inform me that I will present a statement of vote in writing on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u325	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now move on to the Resolution Project No. 397 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends increased security measures in night entertainment spaces. There is a point-by-point vote required by the IL, to which I imagine that no one is opposed. Let us then proceed to the vote on point 1 of draft resolution No 397 / XV / 1. a [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and L were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] The vote on point 2 of this same motion for a resolution follows. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, IL, BE and L were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against the CFP and the NAP.]] We now vote point 3 of the Resolution Project No 397 / XV / 1. a [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CH and IL and with abstentions from the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We shall then vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions of the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 444 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the date of 1 March as the National Day of Combating Endometriosis and recommends that the Government approve measures to support those carrying this disease. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 480 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the regularization of the number of professionals and the full-time operation of the Family Health Unit Paths of the Certoma - Pampilhosa, Luso and Vaccariça, of the municipality of Mealhada. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will then vote on the Resolution Project No. 523 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts to improve access to health care in the Family Health Unit Certoma Paths in the Mealhada municipality. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions No 456 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the effectiveness, duration and financing of learning recovery measures developed autonomously by public schools and 495 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By strengthening, monitoring and extension of Plan 21 23 Schools + and diagnosis of learning losses. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we will vote on the project that had disappeared and that, however, has already been found, i.e., the Resolution Project No. 421 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the establishment of a SUB-Basic Emergency Service at the Large Navy Health Centre. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] With regard to the question raised, of the possibility of an oral vote, what I had already done is confirmed, that is, only one parliamentary group can do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u326	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u327	Mr. Arthur Sovereign Andrade, ask for the floor for what effect? I give you the floor, as long as it is not to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u328	I confirm that it will not be for that purpose, Mr President. As you know, it would be incapable of such stratagem. We don't blame ourselves, but we don't play with this either. Mr President, I asked for the floor because I wanted to draw attention to a detail : according to the indications we have of the services, the statements of vote by the PSD Parliamentary Group are related to the draft laws of the CFP and the Block, not having that indication regarding the PS bill, so I think it will bring together both situations. That is to say, we, the four PSD Members I mentioned, will make the statement of vote for the PS bill, so I leave this issue to the assessment of V. Ex.a.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u329	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u330	I assume that Mrs Emília Cerqueira wishes to speak on this methodological issue, and I therefore give her the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u331	Exactly, Mr. President. We would like to make it clear that the PSD has already announced at the time of the vote that it will present a written declaration of vote on the three initiatives referred to above.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u332	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u333	Mr. Artur Sovereign Andrade asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u334	Mr President, it was to submit a request for clarification to the Bureau. In view of this spirit of cooperation from the PSD Parliamentary Group, I asked the Bureau if we could deliver the declaration in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u335	Of course you do, Mr. Deputies. Do you want to make the statement on your behalf, or on behalf of the four PSD Members you have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u336	Mr. President, the statement will be delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u337	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. So this is a case in which we do not blame ourselves, we do not play, but we affirm!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u338	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u339	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u340	Mr. President, I apologize, but with regard to the missing project, which then appeared again, which is draft resolution No. 421 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), the vote of the Liberal Initiative is abstention. I think I was wrong, having indicated another sense of vote at the moment. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u341	The vote is corrected, Mr President. Then you have the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to make an announcement. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u342	Mr. President, I would like to inform the House of the resumption of the term of office of Deputy Barbara Andreia Gonçalves Dias, elected by PS, in the electoral circle of Setúbal, discontinuing the functions of Deputy Eunice Maria Candido Platas, with effect from 26 March 2023, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-24.u343	Before I say good-bye, I just need to inform the House that the next plenary session will be on Wednesday, March 29, having as an agenda Question No 4 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Unfair prices of essential goods and impoverishment of the population. I wish, everyone, a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 43 minutes.]]
