ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented, so that we can start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I shall take account of the withdrawal, by the proposer, of Bill No 680 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the prohibition on the marketing of burning wood resulting from forest fires. I also inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 690 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, as well as Resolution Projects Nos 576 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 577 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 578 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 579 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 580 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 581 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 582 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 583/15 / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 23 / XV / 1. a — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, people present here and, if I may, dear José Manuel Pureza : Today we debate and vote on the decree that responds to the second ruling of the Constitutional Court on the death of assisted medicine. Most judges defended the fundamental right to a self-determined death. We are, therefore, at the end of almost a decade of unprecedented debate in civil society, in the media bodies, in several parliaments in Parliament, and also between bodies of sovereignty, via delivery and return between Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, several times, in a construction dialogue that we believe has everything — until we have everything that no similar diploma has had in another country — to have arrived at a good port. We are, after all, closer to the constitutional courts of other countries that guarantee the right we defend. The court understood that the expression "physical, psychological and spiritual suffering", removed from the law of palliative care and inspired by Spanish law by the general suggestion of the previous judgment, does not clarify whether we are facing an alternative or cumulative situation. This is because it was considered, unlike the legislator, suffering as synonymous with physical pain. For the legislator, suffering is not confused with physical pain, but of course we must respect the Constitutional Court. Understanding some judges that the "e" conjunction is alternative and other judges that is cumulative, we chose to return to the concept of suffering without adjectives, already legitimized by the Constitutional Court in previous judgment. On the other hand, from the cross-reading of the judgment and the explanations of vote, it is plausible that, if the non-constitutionality of euthanasia in relation to the suicide assisted in an unequivocal manner, the current composition of the Constitutional Court would have been decided by the unconstitutionality of the said non-subsidiarity. It makes all the sense, therefore, to anticipate this implicit requirement further—and new! — the judgment. We believe that the conditions of comfort for promulgation by your Ex.a, the President of the Republic are created. We believe that the legislator's conformation margin was tested as never before and that we respected each test: one, then another, and then another. This is the most scolded law that we have memory and, in a way, still well. It is also the law with one of the largest parliamentary majority ever. It has been incredibly difficult for patients like Heitor to ask for his « last act of freedom ». It has been incredibly difficult for Joana, who says « I want to have a “good death”. It's a right I believe I have. » It was a desolation for whom the law was delayed — Luís Marques, this was always his law. It was a shame to hear from those who died asking for a right that is still a crime. This is a deeply societal law. This is a deeply legitimized law. The country needs to see in effect what was expressed in its will, here, overwhelmingly, over and over again. We've done everything we can to make this happen. We need peace. The community needs that peace. We need to honor and remember, in conscious action, people like Laura Ferreira dos Santos and João Semedo. And remember in conscious action why? Because it is really unworthy that the lives of the dead disappear from the memory of the living who decide. We need peace and we need to end criminal persecution once and for all. We need reasonableness and love, yes, love. I've said it. [[P.S., I.L. and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u5	False charity!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u6	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To put it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us let love and peace rest a little and let us go to the parliamentary debate on the law that the PS brings here. beside him is sitting the bench leader of his parliamentary group, Eurico Brillante Dias, who said yesterday that he was uncomfortable with this law, I repeat: he was uncomfortable with this law! So I wanted to ask you what changed from yesterday to today, to today be peace and love and yesterday be the discomfort in the Lost Steps while I was talking to the journalists.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u8	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u9	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u10	Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira, I bring you two questions. The first is to recognise that this is an absolutely new law in the face of what has been approved here. It seems to me that it recognises this because of the intervention you have made here. I would also like to give an example of a country which has similar legislation to which we are going to approve today.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u11	Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u12	A country that says there will only be euthanasia if the person cannot kill himself! I know language is hard, but this is what the PS wants here to bring: "who can't kill, the state kills him! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's it, that's it! That's what we're going to say today: whoever can't kill, the state kills him. But worse, it is still a legal enormity because it says « who has no conditions». But what conditions? Physics? Motors? Psychics? What are the conditions? Listen, what doctor is gonna put your hand in a law like that? Mr. President of the Republic, for God's sake — for God's sake! — this law is an open door to the discretion of suicide and euthanasia in Portugal! It's an open door! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] The law does not state under what conditions it is considered that it cannot commit suicide itself. Well, who's going to evaluate it? The doctor? The nurse? The psychological board will say "this man has no physical conditions, because he does not have a hand, or he does not have both hands, or he is not in psychic conditions"? My lords, this is absurd! It is absurd, and the Constitutional Court cannot allow such a law to pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u14	It's absurd what you're saying! You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u15	Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira, I would like you to give me an example in the world—and if I give myself one, I will be happy—of a country that has a law that we will approve here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u16	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u17	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, who does not like peace and love, we are not surprised. It's obvious every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u18	Of love I like, of peace not so much! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u19	Naturally, the legislator always prefers the legislation that does what the Constitutional Court requires him to do. Therefore, this decree has this version of subsidiarity because it is imposed by a careful reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u20	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u21	I know you're not used to careful readings, judgments or diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u22	So you haven't read the news well! I had read the news and I hadn't said that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u23	It is imposed by careful reading of both the text of the judgment and the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u24	Tell me what the country is!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u25	What if I prefer the previous version? Of course I preferred the previous version. Only what do you know? I'm a Democrat. We are all democrats here and respect the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr Member, if, from the conjunction of the majority of the judges of the Constitutional Court, it turns out that the Constitutional Court, with this composition, considers that there must be subsidiarity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u26	That's not what the court says!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u27	...we accept that understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u28	What a cure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u29	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u30	Mr, it is the rule of law. Get used to it! [[P.S. and Mr. BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u31	For an intervention in the debate, Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u32	Mr President: Parliament should not have to speak again on this law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u33	I should, I should!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u34	... but the President of the Republic agreed to take her to the Constitutional Court with the argument that there had been an unacceptable extension of the list of cases to which the law would apply and that this would constitute a serious constitutional envelope. Well, the Constitutional Court, in the judgment brought us here today, was unequivocal: nothing the President of the Republic had invoked deserved a negative judgment. This is undoubtedly the most relevant dimension of the Constitutional Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u36	However, they ask the judges and judges of the Constitutional Court to clarify the scope of another point of law, in the name of legal certainty and security. With the same serenity and the same sense of institutional dialogue with which Parliament has always distinguished itself in this case, we proceed to the alignment of the text that responds to this request from the court, and I agree, at the point under consideration, that the wording which had already been submitted to the trial of its judges and judges and that they did not deserve any reparation. It is also to go to the meeting of concerns expressed in individual statements of vote on the judgment, which explicitly sets out what was always clear and was in the spirit of the law: the precedence of the drug suicide assisted on euthanasia. On the side of the Left Block, we are sure that Parliament is thus fully in line with the last requirements of the Constitutional Court. And that, having overcome these needs of drafting, the law will be promulgated and will expand the space of tolerance in our democracy. Every day, it is clear that there is a broad consensus in Portuguese society in favour of the decriminalization of death assisted in the terms proposed by the expressive parliamentary majority that has led to this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u37	Make a referendum!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u38	They were wrong to bet everything on political moves and delaying maneuvers to delay the approval of this law. They were convinced that, as time went on, the noise generated by them would bring doubts, hesitations, confusion and mining the legislative process. They were deceived because they stripped of the common sense and the sense of balance of the vast majority of people. What the opinion studies show is that the field of opponents to the law is increasingly dominated by a small extremist nucleus and that the field of support to which the country has this law does not stop extending.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u39	To defend life is to be extremist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u40	Even more than before, it is clear today that the country views this decision as it should be viewed: as the strengthening of tolerance against prepotence, as John Semedo said. Remembering him, Laura Santos and all the people fought and fight for this law and all the women and men who were forced by law to despise themselves grossly in their end of life, the Block of the Left joins today, here and there, all those who, with responsibility and with confidence, want the country to have this law. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u41	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The haste and obsession of the left and the extreme left in the approval of this diploma does not remind us of anything good, nor does it remind us of anything good for the future in Portugal. In a country where there is no palliative care, where hospitals close, the emergencies close, where there are no beds and where there is no treatment for the older and the younger, Parliament is concerned about approving suicide, or allowing suicide or boosting suicide. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u43	It could already be serious because of this obsessive rush, this unbelievable obsession with death, or suicide, but the formula the PS found for this solution does not really remind anyone. To say that the state can kill itself, and only when the person does not have the conditions to kill himself is absurd throughout the line. And perhaps so I asked Mrs Isabel Moreira to give me an example of a country that had done so. The answer will not surprise anyone, there is no country that has done so, nor any court that has approved it, nor any rule of law that has ever allowed this. There's none! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And there is none because it is absurd to say that the State will kill itself if it has no means to kill itself. It is an absurd one that even affects our own criminal law, by punishing the incitement to suicide and aid to suicide.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u44	The incentive?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u45	It is absurd to say that the state or doctors will assess the conditions that someone has to commit suicide. What conditions are we talking about? Physical, mental, spiritual, motor? The Constitutional Court, like the President of the Republic, will not fail to launch new, renewed and sustained doubts about a diploma presented by the Socialist Party, which is the biggest legal trick in this legislature. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The suffering, this, ceases to have variants and the PS, instead of answering the questions of the Constitutional Court, returns to the original version. Now it doesn't matter if suffering is spiritual, physical, mental or any other kind of suffering, it's any suffering that derives from a serious and permanent injury.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u46	What injury? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u47	That is, the musician who was left without two hands in a work accident, and who considers that this suffering is intolerable, can he or she not be a beneficiary of euthanasia? These are issues that the Constitutional Court will have to raise, but I am sure that the current tenant of the Belém Palace will not fail to raise and question, giving the PS, the class that needs to hear about criminal legislation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, Mr President, after this absurdity that brings us to this debate this morning and that I hope that the Portuguese will be able to follow up and know what it is all about, we spoke here in consensus, in small groups and in extremist groups that defend life. I don't know what Mrs Catarina Martins meant, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u48	If you don't know, you're quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u49	...I know that the polls we have are very clear about everything. We still had one more yesterday that makes clear what the Portuguese want.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u50	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u51	Mr. President, I will conclude. But, leaving the polls aside, then the challenge remains: if you are so convinced that there is a consensus in Portuguese society, if you are so convinced that you win, if you are so convinced that it is so, let us go to the referendum and ask the Portuguese what their opinion is. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u52	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House has already had the opportunity to pronounce itself, several times, on the decriminalization of drug-assisted death. As this is an important and sensitive issue, it has generated a wide-ranging debate in Portuguese society and has called on us, Members, a deep and thoughtful debate which has allowed today to exist the consensus to which we have arrived. Corrected by the constitutional problems announced by the Constitutional Court, we are now unequivocally prepared to take a step towards making our society more democratic, more humanist, with fewer ideological wars, with more respect for fundamental rights, and in which individual freedom is valued. In the course of this process, we heard and took into account the contributions of both the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, and of all those who wanted to contribute to better law. Here arrived, it is never late to affirm a number of principles that the Liberal Initiative has always defended, and will always defend, which is why we have presented a legislative initiative on this subject at the time of our first legislature, and that is why we also have this theme in our political programme, since the beginning of the constitution of our party. We understand that the consecration of a right is not to defend the obligation of its exercise. This is the essence of rights for individual freedom. Thus, with the approval of this diploma, all Portuguese are entitled to the right, but it is up to each individual to choose whether or not to exercise the same right.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u54	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u55	As a personal matter, I have already said it and I say it again, that I do not know what my decision would be if I were in this situation, but that must be irrelevant. We will have the aspiration and the will to evolve, even when the issue is not easy, because it is not. We will set aside our personal opinion and give freedom so that the Portuguese can decide for themselves. It is in this freedom of choice that we believe and not in the collective morals that the State can impose. To prohibit the death of an assisted drug is not to respect the right to life, but to impose the obligation to live. And, look, there's no duty to live, nor do we believe that it should ever exist. This would condemn human existence to suffering and agony, against individual freedom. Finally, the Liberal Initiative would like to praise the efforts made by this House so far on this subject. Representative democracy serves this very purpose, so that we can, legitimately, deliberate on sensitive issues involving the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right to life cannot be transformed into an obligation to live. That is why it is important that today be the day when a new right is born, a right which will only be used by whom, free and informedly, decide which one needs to do. Today, when we vote this diploma, in conscience, I will lift-CL-I will again in your favor and lift-L-I will -I will always be in favour of the individual freedom of each Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the IL, from the PS and from the BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u56	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, present audience: We are facing one of the most involved and debated legislative processes that has passed through several legislatures, a process that is therefore not irreflected, quite the contrary. Debating on drug-assisted death will never be easy. We talk about life, we talk about dignity, but we also talk about the right to choose how people should be able to end their lives, when they are trapped in irreversible, irrecoverable suffering, under the conditions in which this law, quite clearly, establishes it. Is this the solution that we all wish to achieve, a solution such as that which we have presented in the past legislature, but which has collapsed in the concepts and interpretation of the Constitutional Court? It is not, but, as has already been said by Mrs Isabel Moreira in a democracy, we must respect and know how to interpret the Constitutional Court. That is why we are bringing forward today a proposal that aims to overcome all these concerns and, above all, to bring empathy to the legislative process, because those who suffer deeply must have the right to choose. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, successive requests may be made postponements, used dilated records, may speak in legal contradictions, but, for many occasions, there is no legal figure which, overall, answers to all beliefs and individual opinions. We have an obligation to create a just and adjusted law to the reality of all of our fellow citizens. This is therefore the law of Luís Marques, as has already been mentioned here, and of all those who, like Luís, have fought for the right to choose a dignified end of life. We hope that the path of this text will find greater openness, that it will make a clear path of personal, religious convictions in relation to justice. We hope, above all, that they have the notion of what it is to live in a suffering so terrible that the only dignified solution, made in full consciousness, in full will, is the use of assisted drug death. Human dignity, in our view, must be respected at all stages of life and the end of life is neither, nor can it be, except. [[P.S., I.L. and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u58	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are speaking today, once again, about the legalization of euthanasia, although on a new text. As we have already said, and we have reaffirmed again, the choice we take when voting against is not taken lightly. It is not in any light that this issue should be debated, as it should not be like a war on the left against the right or of those who profess a religious faith against whom it is atheist. Nor should it be a discussion between those who value more or less the dignity of human life, until the dignity of each one, before his death, is subject to no one's judgment. What we have decided is a legislative option and not a judgment on consciences. We are talking about an option of the State, not of individuals, about the end of their lives, an attitude that the State takes with regard to the final phase of their citizens' lives. Our position results from a deep and anchored reflection on the existing reality which, unfortunately, as we see every day, has not evolved in the sense of mitigating elements that weigh heavily in our evaluation. As we have said, individual autonomy is something that must be respected, but an organised society must not merely add up to individual autonomys and the legislator should not take a legislative option on the life and death of people, without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of that option. Therefore, when discussing whether a State should offer legal means to anticipate death, we cannot forget that this is the same State that denies many citizens the means to live properly. And here it is important to never cease to repeat: most citizens cannot continue to deny the health care they need, particularly in times of greatest suffering. A country should not create legal instruments to help die when it does not guarantee material conditions to help live. The first duty of the State is to ensure that death is always assisted, not in advance. For this, the strengthening of the SNS (National Health Service) is central. It is an absolute priority to create a network of palliative care, with universal character, which ensures, in fact, that people who are in suffering, have access to all the care they need through good medical practice, that they respect the autonomy of individual will expressed in the anticipated manifestations of will — which the law already permits — but also to prevent practices of therapeutic obstinacy. Mrs. Members, this is an issue which, by its complexity, by the concerns and doubts it raises and by the importance of the values in question, deserves each one's effort to counter temptations of intellectual arrogance or even of moral superiority. That is why it should not be an endlessly dragged issue. The CFP has never raised the issue from the point of view of constitutionality and also believes that the Assembly of the Republic has all the legitimacy to decide. I'm done, ladies. Members, repeating something central and we have always put on this issue: we live times when the value of human life is often relativized according to criteria, whether they are of social utility, economic interests, family responsibilities and charges or public expenditure and therefore we cannot ignore the new risks that the legalization of euthanasia brings us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u60	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u61	Mr President, good morning to all Members and Members, and to the present audience: The key word, that without which such a debate cannot be held, is respect, respect for individual autonomy, for the diversity of faith and consciences, for the situation in which each and every one is in when he or she is under a terrible suffering or when he or she wants to decide about his or her own life, about his or her own death. I respect, secondly, the rule of law, a rule of law in which the legislator does not decide alone, does not want to decide alone, has the opinions of other institutions and bodies of sovereignty in society, as was done during this long-term debate in Portugal. I respect the seriousness and difficulty of the debate itself, respect for those who present the debate with opposing opinions, but loyal to the facts and to the previous two respects by individuals and by the rule of law. The Free House was not in this House of the Republic when this debate began — therefore, it witnessed, like many citizens and citizens, the seriousness with which this debate was held inside and outside the Assembly of the Republic — and it is in a position of gratitude to the Members and Members who have taken this debate seriously, understanding and respecting those who oppose it. We are in favour of legalizing the death of assisted medicine and we will vote in favour of this text which now responds to the doubts of the Constitutional Court. This is our position. We respect those who have an opposite position, we respect, if they present themselves faithfully to the facts, to the debate, to our citizens and to the rule of law. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u62	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are again facing another version of the law on assisted drug death, although, in this current version, assisted suicide has been introduced as a preferential method, i.e., now euthanasia becomes subsidiary. That is, we are faced with the cruelty of those who cannot kill themselves, so they can resort to an assisted drug death. This paradigm change does not explain how this law will live with article 135. that of the Criminal Code, which lays down the aid or incitement to suicide. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to examine this new text was clearly insufficient. We received the proposal in question late, giving us no time or space to analyze with the depth and care it deserved, especially since the amendments were substantial and did not merely accommodate the recommendations of the Constitutional Court’s judgment — and soon on a subject and on a subject that is truly fracturing in Portuguese society. Moreover, public debates on this subject have revealed that this subject is far from peaceful and consensual. Opinions on assisted drug death are so deeply disparate and antagonistic that it is well evidence of the absence of any generalized consensus in our society on this matter, contrary to what has already been said here today. For this reason, on December 5, 2022, the PSD presented a draft referendum for Portuguese and Portuguese to be given the possibility to pronounce on the non-punitability of drug-assisted death when practiced or assisted by health professionals by the person's own decision. [[PSD applause.]] That, and the decision to live or die, is personal, matter of the sphere of each one, matter of his individual freedom, i.e. if someone kills, this is considered a fact, a mere fact that remains within his own legal sphere. Different thing is entering this game another or other people. In the case of assisted suicide or euthanasia, because we are already in the sphere of social fact. However, when it comes to a social fact, other care and other issues will have to be equationd. There is no doubt that each and every one of us has the right and freedom to make a personal choice, until that choice is not to live, which may seem to legitimize that each of us takes the decision to approve or reject this law in this House. But the truth is that one can hardly recognize the existence of a proportional, effective correspondence between the individual vote expressed by each of us, Members and Members, based on our individual conscience and on our moral and ethical standards, and the collective will of the generality of the Portuguese and Portuguese, elective citizens we represent. [[PSD applause.]] This is, yes, the relevant issue for the PSD and a matter of relevant national interest, which does not directly imply the Community assumption of a non-return path. He therefore understood and understood that the Portuguese should be called upon to deliver a national referendum. For the PSD, it is even imperative to provide the Portuguese people with the opportunity to speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u64	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u65	But for purely formal reasons, our proposal for a referendum has been rejected or, as is usual in the football field, we have been eliminated in the secretariat.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u66	It's true! Neither did Ventura!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u67	However, who was affected by this decision was the Portuguese people, prevented from speaking on a matter of enormous sensitivity, which cannot be seen as a mere medical issue, forgetting the moral and awareness issues and forgetting the reality in which we live, in a frightening society where there are more and more elderly people living with little health, abandoned, weakened, fragile, in a country that does not care for them as it should, neither of them nor even of those who need an urgent consultation or surgery. [[PSD applause.]] Since we do not have the illusion that there are simple choices when everything is very complicated, as we know that we are before each other's conscience forum issues, we will maintain the decision to give voting freedom to Members and Members of the Social Democratic Party. In conclusion, I would like to say to the Portuguese and Portuguese that, in order to avoid working as a secretary, such as that of which we were victims last December, with the convivence or restraint of those who appear in their speech to "rend the garments" to prevent this law from being approved, but at the time of truth, he gave his hand to the PS,... [[PSD applause.]] ... in a collection of interests we are already getting used to—if it is still appropriate, I repeat, to those who have already called on the referendum here today not to hand their hands on the PS and those who refuse it, then it is our commitment that, at the next legislative session, we will propose again that this matter be subject to a referendum. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u68	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u69	To defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u70	In defence of the honour of the arrival bench, which you consider to have been offended by Mrs Paula Cardoso? [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u71	Please. You've got up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u72	Mr President, for the sake of arriving, saying that your hand has been handed over to the PS is a very serious offense. Very serious! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u73	She didn't say! You're the one who shoved the toad!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u74	Mr President, I will give you the floor, of course, because I have used the criterion as wide as possible. But of course we cannot always consider the expressions of political characterization used by one another as offensive expressions. The offence of honor has a particular meaning, which cannot be confused with the political characterizations that the various parliamentary and parliamentary groups intend to do. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I understand what he says. Here the question is that, in parallel with the expression « handing over the PS », the insinuation was made that the Arrival was in a sort of conspiracy of behind the PS to prevent the PSD referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u76	And you didn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u77	This I can assure you that the arrival has never had, has and will not have any contact with the Socialist Party for any purpose!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u78	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u79	We don't want to either! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u80	You're the same as them! Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u81	on the contrary, Mr President, of the conciliation, that is, between PSD and PS, to end the 15-year debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u82	Well, there it is! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u83	That's where there was conluio. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] But no, but no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paula Cardoso, I greet her because a good part of her speech was delivered yesterday by the Arrival during the afternoon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u84	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u85	... in particular with regard to Article 135. the Criminal Code and criminal legislation. But it has to correct what he said, because it was not the arrive, honestly, nor the Socialist Party that prevented the PSD referendum project from being voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u86	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u87	Mrs. Deputy, it was something that has three letters. It's called her. She!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u88	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u89	It is the law that forbids it that, when there was already a draft referendum — and there was, ours, that the PSD, in fact, did not vote in favour — be accepted another. The honourable Member and her parliamentary group have come, at the same legislative session, to present a draft referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u90	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u91	It was the same thing that arrived tomorrow with a new bill on euthanasia and said: "Oh, they didn't let us discuss the law! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] Of course not, if she was discussed today, she won't be discussed tomorrow. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, you can be sure, I leave you with the absolute assurance that on the side of the Arrival — and I know that on the side of the PSD too, at least that was what Louis Montenegro said — there will be complete openness and availability, as well as availability of work, so that we can not only repeal this infamous law as to why the Portuguese people vote. Therefore, in the wake of this request for honour, Mr President, and with this I shall finish, I ask you, Madam Member, whether the PSD maintains its commitment and assumes its commitment to, if we win — and when I say we win is a right-wing majority — the forthcoming elections, we will repeal this euthanasia law. That's a compromise. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u92	You now have the floor to Mrs Paula Cardoso to give the explanations she understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. This thing we saw here was all but a defense of honor. It was another political statement to launch challenges. [[PSD applause.]] I therefore ask Mr President to prevent such attitudes in the conduct of the work that only harm the Rules of Procedure and the parliamentary debate. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] However, only in order to respond to the referendum, Mr President — since you felt it was an insult to the honour to hear you say that you gave your hand to the PS — I must say that the PSD continues to understand that the question that came to referenda was a mere question that merely said whether we agreed, or not, with a particular article of the Criminal Code. The person shall say that he agrees or does not agree with Article 2. o, 3. o, 4. , whatever it is, the Penal Code does not have the same meaning or the same scope to ask the Portuguese what we asked. What we asked was whether the non-punitability of assisted drug death, when practiced or assisted, should be decriminalized or not. Therefore, it is not the same thing as saying whether or not it agrees with a particular article of the Criminal Code. I can agree with a certain article of the Criminal Code and agree with it, or not agree. It doesn't have the same scope, it doesn't have the same scope. So you have to leave the truth here, because you are a user and a worker to make these numbers to look like what it is not. But here, what it is, it is! [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the referendum, you have indeed put yourself next to the PS, hidden behind these three latrines, "law", but the fact is that our question had nothing to do with yours. We understand that there was no repetition of the object of the draft resolution to request the referendum. That was our understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u94	What a mess he's going there! As for the challenges that the PSD launches, the PSD has a head. We have too much criticism, we have the ability to think and we will make our decisions. We don't accept anyone's challenge. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u95	At the conclusion of the first item on the agenda, we move on to the second point, which consists in the assessment of draft resolution No 482 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines to ensure the effective right of access of all citizens to the Public Administration, ensuring the possibility of face and spontaneous care in all its services, together with in general Bill No 677 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 58 / 2016 of 29 August, providing face-to-face assistance to the public to beneficiaries of priority care. To present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The degradation of public services has been the indelible mark of these years of governance of the Socialist Party. In fact, today we are discussing, see well, a draft resolution of the PSD that recommends to the Government that ensure effective access of all citizens to the Public Administration — thus ensuring spontaneous and face-to-face care — and a draft law of the Arrival to ensure face-to-face care to the beneficiaries, see well, of priority care. But only today is the fact that we are debating this need, which clearly constitutes a constitutionally enshrined right of citizens, is symptomatic of the state of absolute degradation to which our public services in Portugal have reached. Proof of this is the recurrent annual records of complaints with the Ombudsman or simply our experience, as citizens, when we go to a public division to simply deliver a request and we are required to do so through a previous marking, to be treated there two or three weeks. Logically, this deeply anachronistic way of dealing and interacting with citizens, businesses and institutions has tremendous consequences in people's lives, in their decision-making, in the country's economy and competitiveness, because the difficulties in solving from the simplest to the most complex issues are immense and the congestion of services, which already existed before the pandemic, has worsened in an intolerable way for all of us. [[PSD applause.]] But then we ask ourselves: is all this happening, but there are fewer public officials, who, in turn, have to care for more citizens? And the answer is « no». There are no more citizens — which unfortunately happens — as we have today the largest number of public servants since public employment statistics are published in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] The state machine has won over 93,000 public servants since Antonio Costa is Prime Minister. However, there are no workers in the IRN (Instituto dos Registres y do Notariado), social security, health, education, courts, prisons. And this lamentable portrait is no more than a mirror of the mismanagement of the Public Administration to which successive socialist governments have used us in recent years. [[PSD applause.]] This is a mirror of the lack of structured, sustained public employment policy, of a government that does not plan, but only manages day by day; that leaves workers — who often do what they can and impossible with the resources parks they have — to be the burden of user dissatisfaction, and that this situation has been aggravated by the fact that, after almost two years of the end of the state of emergency, the services continue, without any justification, to require a prior marking for the care of the citizen. Therefore, and in summary, in times of normality, we saw a totally unnecessary and unjustified extension of exceptional care rules that existed during an exceptional period, rules that were justified by an emergency state in which, fortunately, we no longer live. In fact, this incompetence of the government is so evident that today we watch surreal situations, such as those that have been reported in the shops of the citizen, with the existence of mobs of passwords, with people who go to the morning queues and sell the passwords at 50 €. It's an invitation to madrabice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not diabolise service by prior marking, in fact, we understand that it is essential and that it confers predictability on the organization of services. But this type of care cannot be the norm, it cannot be even 50% of the service. Before we spread digitization, we must not forget the exclusion. There is a very significant part of the Portuguese population that does not have access to digital services — it is difficult to believe, but it is true. And it's not just because of lack of digital literature, it's sometimes simply because they don't have internet networks, because they're inside the country, because they're elderly, because they're vulnerable. And the state does not respond to these people; the government is totally disconnected from this reality. After the complaints of civil society and the PSD — and it is noted by some Members of the Socialist Party — the Government, pressured by public opinion, announced that it gave guidance to the services so that 50 % of the services would become by earlier marking. But after four months of this orientation, substantially little has changed and the complaints of the citizens remain - and it is enough to read the news. For all this, the initiative we are bringing here advocates that the constitutional right of access to public administration is fully complied with, not at 50 %, without obstacles and without artificial obstacles. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u97	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Covid-19 brought many restrictions on the rights of our fellow citizens. This designation of the "new standard" has limited many of our freedoms, rights and guarantees, enshrined in the Constitution itself. However, we do not want to let the day pass, so that they will never forget, without mentioning that the only party that brought about a precautionary measure to prevent citizens' rights and guarantees from being disrespected was the Arrival, when it tried, during the period of cover-19, to prevent them from restricting the movement between councils. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Socialist Party, during the pandemic period, imposed the rule of the "new normal" and came, during this period, inhumanizing the Public Administration. Moreover, the expression of the ageing of the Public Administration was made clear in the Government of this Parliament's Programme. And we realize from there the clear positioning that the Socialist Party would take along this legislature. They cannot capture the interest of young people in the Public Administration, and they cannot capture it, because wages are reduced, because career progression is not guaranteed, because careers are not reviewed and force young people to emigrate. So, what's the solution? The solution will be to extinguish basic services to the population, with an excuse for modernisation and digitization.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u100	Modernisation, yes; digitisation, yes— we agree—but not at the expense of the most vulnerable. You, who spend their lives tearing clothes about the most vulnerable, are those who now limit their access to public services. Today, the system does not even allow an online marking to identify whether the person is entitled to priority access or not, which our Constitution allows and should guarantee. What measures have the Socialist Party taken over the course of time, however? He did not think of the older ones, he did not think of the most vulnerable, but he presented something fantastic, which was the social rate of the internet — a flop! When they presented the social rate of the internet, they clearly did not know the Real Country. They presented the measure to 700 000 families; they said it would cover 700 000 families. In fact, the data show that the current coverage is 0, 06 % of that which was the initial will and intention of the Government. And why? Because they did not even understand that the social rate of the Internet would be immediately impermissible by the fact that people and families have contracts that include internet, television and telephone and have loyalty programmes; that is, we are talking about more than 90 % of the population. Thus, the social internet tariff would be a flop, of course, and would never have any results. They also forget about the interior, where there are often no Internet at all. And the Socialist Party's policy has been this, and we could talk about the situation of Trás-os-Montes, where, in order to invest in a data network, 12 million euros would be needed, but that does not exist, and in which there was no such investment. On the other hand, the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) has managed to cover 47 million euros to invest in insect feeding projects, including beetles and larvae. It is a matter of priorities, and the Public Administration is always behind. Our project is clear: at least those who have the guarantee of access priority must have access to services in person. We cannot continue with this unconstitutionality. You cannot limit access to service in the way you are limited. We clearly see that what they want to reduce is public services, eventually limiting intervention by public administration officials, who are workers and employees. For your own sake, they ended with much of the careers, reduced them. Looking at the galleries, I see many young people, but I see older people. I'd like to know how old people, with digital iliteracy, with difficulty in accessing data, with lack of knowledge, will do their whole life without having face-to-face access to a number of services. And you want to continue, thinking that one day, who knows, we'll have a medical consultation with TikTok or we'll take a question or get an explanation through ChatGPT. Mr. Secretary of State has the name of Campolargo. It must certainly be forgotten that there is no need for such a wide band for what it wants to do in digitisation and that it has to be more concrete, without forgetting the most vulnerable. That is why we believe that we cannot enter this madness, this demand, that the path is digitization and modernization, because we cannot, in any way, leave behind the most forgotten. They know that a few days ago, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic said that we should do as Buddha did when he looked at a plant. The luck of Buddha is that he contemplated a lotus flower. In Portugal, the only thing we have been able to contemplate, over the last 50 years and this year, the only plant we have seen is 120 roses. And we all know that when we get home with 120 roses, what we're told immediately is: "Or you've screwed up or you're about to do it. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u101	For an intervention in the debate on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the initiative under consideration, I leave some notes that seem relevant to us. The first finding that it is important is that there is indeed a concrete problem with regard to access to public services, to the Public Administration. I am referring to an example that has come to us very recently, of a citizen who needed to deal with some urgency of matters related to parental leave. As this mandatory schedule is necessary, the citizen made the request on 24 March and the scenario before him, for the case of Lisbon, was as follows: in the social security services of the Saldanha Citizen's Shop there were not even vacancies, all lots; the service in Marvila would be vacant on 13 April; in the Laranjeiras, the vacancy would be on 27 April; at the national headquarters of social security, the vacancy available would be on 20 June. The honourable Member spoke here within two or three weeks, but we know that in some services it will take two or three months to obtain these markings. Therefore, it seems to us that the scheduling times for access to public services do not coincide with the times and emergencies that citizens and citizens have when they go to a public service, whether to social security, to the Tax and Customs Authority (AT ) or to any other. And while it is true that the previous schedules were indeed important for a pandemic context, it is also true that the digitization of many requests and many services came to the aid of fewer people, for simpler things, to go to the services. However, it is essential to ensure access to public services and, therefore, it is also important to remember that there is a very important fringe of the population that does not have access to the Internet and therefore does not make a marking or deal with online issues. This is for various reasons, whether by age, whether it is found in territories such as those in the interior, where access to this internet service is often difficult, and also because in many of these territories, particularly in the interior, many of these services have been closed over the past few years or some have become mobile or are in charge of the freghey boards, which is a confusion. Moreover, there is another inequality between services, because prior scheduling is not mandatory for all public administration services ; and therefore there is a very obvious inequality here. The diagnosis seems quite clear to us, we all know it, and therefore we will follow the initiatives proposed here. But there is one point that we could not stop raising and which is, in fact, behind all this: the lack of investment in public service and in public service workers. For years, the right — and here I also include the PSD — spoke of "state fats". Mrs. Members, so often spoke about the state's fat, that the result is this, and so many times they attacked public officials and public services and shut down public services, which the result is this. In conclusion, Mr President, it seems to us that, in this draft resolution, they conveniently forget the attack they have always made on these services and on these officials, but I am glad that they want to reverse that position right now. Therefore, following these initiatives, what we say is that it is necessary to strengthen investment in the public service and to strengthen citizens' access to these services through the strengthening of workers, so that the answers are given in due course. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u103	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The relationship of the citizen and the taxpayer with the Public Administration must be based on transparency, speed and proactivity by the Public Administration in an attempt to reduce the number of interactions required. To this end, all attempts to digitize services should be adopted in order to facilitate bureaucratic procedures and exchange of information. However, we cannot consider digitalization, the Internet or artificial intelligence as a panacea that will solve all bureaucratic obstacles and all the inefficiency of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u105	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u106	It is true that technological innovation has helped, helped and will continue to help, even more, the Portuguese interact with the State. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must not forget that bureaucracy does not cease to be bureaucracy just because it is processed through a screen, not a role, until the public administration continues to need the role and the Portuguese continue to need presence services. According to the data available for the year 2022, only 49 % of Portuguese interact with the Public Administration through digital platforms when the European average is 58 %. Several factors can explain this reality. One of them results from a large part of the population still not having the necessary digital skills, and we cannot but say that this is also a failure of the education system and the state, which imposes distance communication without teaching citizens how these means work.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u107	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u108	Mrs. Members, who have arrived here, we see the need for the presence service and even the need for the organization of the presence service through marking and prior scheduling. We know that it is an essential tool in the provision of service, but it cannot make an open door policy indispensable.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u109	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u110	If the previous schedule was the model of operation used during the pandemic to reduce the number of people in physical spaces, and if it remained unfounded, this debate is even more relevant and more relevant, since last week the Assembly of the Republic voted favourably to revoke dozens of pandemic-related diplomas, in a final statement that we are no longer in an exceptional state. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while the Portuguese have to continue to make use of the services of the Public Administration, they must be truly free to provide their services. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u111	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Lino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already standard: whenever there is some kind of media noise, the PPD makes a political sprint to try to stand at the front of the right. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It begins to be such a repetitive behavioral symptom that we ask ourselves: was the PPD bench computer system contaminated by some kind of virus or populist intelligence, like ChatGPT? It's just that you've been replicating behaviors of the benches that just become a resonance box of the press clippings. But let us return to the sophisms of this draft resolution of the PPD bench, which recommends to the Government guidelines that have already been issued on 29 November 2022 — listen carefully: 29 November 2022!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u113	And nothing happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u114	Four months ago, the Government gave clear guidance to all services to ensure that 50 % of the services were carried out without prior marking and on a spontaneous basis. The Government Programme is very clear when it provides uniform and omnican care in the most sought after services of the Public Administration. This means the integration of multiple channels of care, focusing on users, which, of course, the presence of care. More: in the State budget for 2023, the government plans the installation of 12 new citizen stores, 170 new citizen spaces and 6 new mobile citizen spaces. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that service in public services is not perfect, but do not come to make sdrug recommendations about something the government has done four months ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u115	You didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u116	Fez, he did!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u117	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u118	Portugal is at the top of the list of countries of the European Union with regard to simplification and administrative modernization programmes. And you know why? Because of the Simplex.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u119	What is 'complex'!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u120	The Simplex changed the way the Public Administration works and provides services. [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Gomes.]] It is an administrative modernization programme whose main objectives are to reduce bureaucracy and bring public services closer to citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u121	This is Magalhães!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u122	We could present dozens and dozens of measures with positive impacts on the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u123	Is that Magalhães?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u124	Here's the question I leave to the PPD bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u125	PPD?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u126	It's PPD / PSD, if you don't know, go read! This is the question I leave to the PPD bench: what are your concrete measures to modernise the services of the Public Administration and improve your relationship with the Portuguese? Does the PPD bench have proposals or is it now just a resonance box of the day's foam? [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Simple continues. Simple says 'yes' to people, citizens and businesses. Simple is simple, it's innovation. They're more and better services. And, never forget, the Simplex is the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u127	Simplex is from Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u128	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lino, I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity you have given me to tell you a few things after your intervention, which is also very sdrujula. [[Mr Bruno Nunes's laughs.]] Starting at the end, the honourable Member said that the Simplex was the PS. I understand that you have this tendency to try to appropriate the things of the state, because, in fact, it is a way of being in life that you, the Socialist Party, have,... [[PSD applause.]] ... to take advantage of and appropriate the state machine, to the point of being confused with it. Turning back to the question that brought us here, Mr. Deputies said that the PSD was always at the front, in the foam of the days, but, not the PSD, many months ago, had drawn attention to this problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u131	...you would not have issued the guidance you said they issued on 29 November. [[PSD applause.]] I would also like to say that, on 29 November, five months have passed. Are you going to the street? Do you usually use this kind of services, you usually need the state? It is that, if you go to the street, you will realize that Passwords and queues at 6 o'clock in the morning, without the guarantee of being heeded, are really a reality, Mr. Deputies, they are not PSD imagination! [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u132	Neither do they!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u133	First of all: this orientation applies to whom?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u134	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u135	Mr. President, I'm done. Is it valid for all Public Administration services or just for some? Does it apply to complex situations or to simple situations? By the way, where is he and when do they begin to fulfill what they promised? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u136	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Lino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u137	Now it is! From Monday.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u138	Mr President, in fact there are some issues that become repetitive, which is normal. Mrs. Sofia Matos, I walk on the street, regularly.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u139	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u140	Every week — last week, last week and next week — I visit regularly, at work, because that is my job, as a Member, but also as a citizen, the Citizen's shop, in Coimbra, and I have never checked there, live, anything that you said here. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I don't have any problems: I get here, I pull a password on the machine, I turn to public services and I'm served within 10 or 15 minutes. And it works fine. Since there was a little quiproche...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u141	You have to go inside, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u142	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a mountaineer in Coimbra, and I know the interior very well! Since there was a small misunderstanding between our bench and the table, I will give the floor to my comrade and colleague Susana Amador to also make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u143	What about the answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u144	Mr. Ricardo Lino, there was no misunderstanding. Applications for clarification are made during the interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u145	Sure! He should know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u146	There was no contact between the PS Parliamentary Group and the Bureau as Mrs Sofia Matos spoke, symmetrically happened when Mr Deputy intervened, and that is the logic of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group is now included for intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The degradation of public services in our country is a reality that is not today and has been worsening for a long time, with the lack of investment and the political options of the Government of the Socialist Party. But I also remember the policy options of the PSD/CDS government, which together led to the reduction, concentration and closure of public services, the attack on workers' rights, which are necessary every day for these public services to be in operation and provided to our population. Therefore, there are responsibilities of PS, PSD and CDS in those that are the conditions of public services today. There are delays, it's a fact. There are markings and care that are done only one month, two months or three months later, when people need a reply more quickly and in advance. There are increased difficulties, long waiting lines and services that do not respond to the needs of the populations. What this requires is investment, on the one hand, in the expansion of the response of public services, at the present level, and on the other, in greater coverage and proximity of these same public services. Investment in the hiring of workers is necessary to ensure public services and also to value their wages, careers and wages. With regard to this set of issues, what has been attended either by the PSD or by the PS is in fact a refusal to adopt the solutions that are necessary to value workers, because, in order to have present services of quality, workers need to be recognized and valued in their work, careers, wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u148	All right, exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u149	And this, today, is more necessary than ever. When the cost of living increases, when the working conditions worsen, what is needed is, in fact, to regain the power to buy lost, to increase workers' wages. But what has been the positioning of PS and PSD in this matter? Not to follow up the CFP, when we bring concrete proposals for investment, recovery of rights, guarantee of working conditions, recovery of wages. in this remaining time, we would like to say the following: we have nothing against digitisation or the use and use of new technologies in the relationship between the state and the citizens. Now, we have to keep in mind that this doesn't solve all the problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u151	... and that there are even regions in our country where there is no coverage in terms of telecommunications. Well, we can have all the digitization, that the citizens will still not have access. That is why, as I said, what is needed is indeed investment in terms of response and greater proximity to present services. We will not oppose the proposal that the PSD brought here, because we consider that presenceal care cannot be subject only... [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u153	I will finish, Madam President. I said that presenceal care cannot be conditioned only the previous marking and that there should be a response to those who address the public service, but this requires investment in the hiring and valorization of employees of the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u154	Good morning to all of us. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members, as well as the many young and less young people who accompany us in the galleries. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u155	Madam President, access to public administration is and must be a guaranteed right for all, without exception. These are essential services, which are fundamental to the functioning of our society, the many lines that we have seen, not only in the pre-pandamy but also in the post-pandamy, are incomprehensible. We regret, in fact, that the PS has come to give the example of a place that works, when in the rest of the country—and to realize that it is enough to go to the Laranjeiras, not far from here—for hours in a row, either in the shops of the citizen, or in other essential services, in addition to what has already been mentioned in relation to password schemes or even even to treatment, often inhuman, to which people are subject, when they are not even informed about their rights. in this sense, we follow the proposal that the PSD brings us, because it makes no sense that presenceal access continues to be impaired. Moreover, although there may be a technological evolution that is an auxiliary in marking or in the care, the same cannot and should not replace presenceal care, even by the aging of the population. The population with less access from the point of view of technological literature has to be guaranteed their presence. in this sense, it seems to us that all that can mean the allocation of faster and more effective care is to accompany, so we will vote in favour of the PSD proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u157	In conclusion, Madam President, I would just like to make a note on the proposal from arrive. We agree that priority assistance in public administration is important, however, it seems to us that the proposal is redundant and is already fully enshrined, so we will not be able to accompany it favourably.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u158	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u159	Madam President, I greet you too. This is one of those simple debates, which, perhaps because of that, started in all directions. On the basis of this is something with which everyone agrees: Portugal must, at the same time, be a dynamic country and dignity, in which all those who have access to new technologies can benefit from them to have more direct access to public administration — and now less authoritarian access, less disciplinary, less rigid, less hierarchical, giving more freedom to each of our citizens — but in which everyone who does not have that access is entitled to personalized, priority, local, human, face-to-face care. There is no way to disagree with these principles. The Free will vote in favour of the PSD proposal, not impeding the other proposal presented here, but the final word must go to the 120 Members who support the absolute majority that supports the Government. at a time when it is found that, after all, the deficit is more than 1 percentage point below what the government itself thought reasonable, i.e. that there is a budgetary strike to be used, one part of which must be used in the fight against the crisis and another part of the PS and the government want to allocate to the payment of debt and deficit, which is normal, but it was already in the plans, that a part does not go so that the State can modernise itself, so that the public administration is strengthened, that public officials find more career opportunities and that citizens have easier access to what they need, that is, public care—and there the economy thanks and grows more because of it — is a lost opportunity, which is still in time to correct. I hope they will talk to the government and realize that part of this investment has to go to modernise our country, but also to maintain that which, in addition to a dynamic society, has to be a society of dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u160	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is coming to an end and it is important, firstly, to make a statement and then to talk about data and facts very quickly. The first finding is obvious: whenever the Socialist Party has ruled, administrative modernization has advanced; when the Socialist Party has ruled, there has been administrative simplification and inclusion has deepened. This is an obvious observation, which can be seen with the successive simplification programmes, that the Simple is the most visible face—and could speak of programs and measures such as the citizen Nascer, the automatic renewal of the citizen card, the Ready House, the request for online death certificate and so many other measures that have simplified the lives of all Portuguese citizens. We have the notion that care should serve all citizens and that they should choose the means which is most convenient for them to solve their problems on a daily basis. This access guarantee requires an articulated use of all service channels, whether physical or digital. During the time of the pandemic, the appointment by marking was almost exclusive, and well, because the Public Administration has not stopped serving the people, and, already in the present time, we have resumed the presence. The numbers speak for themselves and the data confirm this: in the shops of the citizen, at the Social Security Institute, we have 79 %, at the IRN (Instituto des Registrets and the Notariat) we have 94 % and at the Tax Authority we have 92 % spontaneous or presenceal care. With regard to the shops of the citizen, it should be said that only in 2022 did 6, 6 million services and, in the first two months of 2023, more than 1 million services already occurred. The inclusion of access is well evidenced in the numbers I just demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u163	Also the digital must not be neglected, and I am setting an example, in this case, in the context of migration: the immigrant service platform has already had 100 000 applications for residence authorization. Therefore, this means that our path should be of balanced commitment between all modalities of service in Public Administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u164	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u165	...arguing in the presence of public services throughout the national territory, in conjunction with local authorities, because, as was evident in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Days, we daily realize a closer state, at the service of people and at the service of all, including and leaving no one behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u167	Is there still much to do? There is, but it was with the PS that we always moved forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u168	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this stage of the debate, we shall proceed to the conclusion. To this end, Mr. João Barbosa de Melo, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As we are nearing the end of this debate, I would like to make a little bit of the arguments that have gone through here. Portugal is facing a paradox difficult to understand. Our Public Administration has many collaborators—which, in fact, "make tripas hearts" to go beyond their duty—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u170	They're workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u171	... being that, today, much more people work in the Public Administration than they have been for 10 or 20 years, but many of the operations that lead the citizen to interact with the Administration are, well, increasingly digitized and depend less and less on direct human intervention. in this context, it is asked: how is it possible, then, that the service in the Public Administration is working worse than when the socialist governments began to govern, for more than seven years?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u173	The malfunction is witnessed by the experience of so many, confirmed here, indeed, by many indicators and by many interventions. A mystery, a true paradox: more people working, more technology incorporation, population decreasing and more qualified, but worse public service? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u174	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u175	Any management consultant, even a weak one,... [[Eries from PSD deputy Sofia Matos.]] ... will make the diagnosis obvious: worse result with more resources is a clear symptom of a serious management problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u176	They don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u177	Improving this management is the responsibility of the government, of course, and our project is just a contribution to that improvement. Without ending the service by marking, whenever it suits the citizen, we propose the extension of the presenceal care, protecting the constitutional rights of all, especially those of the excluded, the poorest, the most disabled. Our proposal is to make care more inclusive, more unconditional and more universal.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u179	This is not an abstract project, markedly ideological or unrealistic, so we invite the other political forces to approve this recommendation to the Government — and, when I say 'all', they are all: the Socialist Party is obviously also called upon to make this contribution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u180	At the conclusion of the second item on our agenda, we will take a look at draft resolution No 442 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government be provided with financial resources the Co-management Committee for the Catch of Perceives in the Berlengas Natural Reserve ( GNI) and the establishment and financing of the co-management committee for the Algarve powder fishery. To present this draft resolution, Mr Salvador Formiga of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by leaving a special compliment to fishermen, scientists, authorities and civil society who have been involved in various fisheries sustainability projects in Portugal and who have chosen to make a presence in Parliament in order to accompany the discussion of this draft resolution. “ Unfortunately, we took the oceans as guaranteed and today we face what I would call “emergency in the oceans. ” We have to reverse the tide. Healthy and productive oceans are vital to our common future. These words were spoken by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, at the opening of the Conference of the Oceans, held by the UN ( United Nations ) in Lisbon, in June 2022. Overfishing, accidental catches and illegal fishing are of the main threats facing the oceans, endangering species survival, significantly affecting their populations and biodiversity. The most recent report by the European Commission recognises that only in the North-East Atlantic are the stocks in line with the goal of maximum sustainable income, i.e. the maximum amount of fish that fishermen can withdraw from the sea without compromising the future regeneration and productivity of the stock. For the North-East Atlantic the evolution was positive, but for the Gulf of Biscay and Iberian waters, which include Portuguese waters, this evolution was even more positive, with only one population unit in imbalance in 2020. In 2015 the alerts in the Iberian waters sounded, after the biomass of the available sardine has reached historical minimum values. After this, Portugal encouraged its work in the area of research, which, together with the enormous effort and sacrifice of fishermen, allowed to resume an ascending path of recovery of the stock of the sardine in our waters, defining global catch limits, daily catch limitations and reduction of the number of fishing months, thus affecting the income and subsistence of thousands of fishermen and their families in our country. After Portugal and Spain had ensured the recovery of the Iberian sardine, together with the sector in 2022, we achieved for our country an annual fishing quota of 29 000 tonnes, plus 16 000 tonnes than in 2015, results that enable us to trust that the fishing quota of 2023 sardine will be higher than last year. With the two co-management committees here under discussion, it is intended to replicate this case of success, although on a smaller scale, on which everyone has voice and decision on the future of the activity, with regulatory competence, having the function of sustainable fisheries management and monitoring, according to scientific knowledge, evaluating the available data and coordinating the various activities involved, approving and monitoring the implementation of their management plans. Co-management, defined by decree-law since 2020, promotes profitable, sustainable, socially fair fishing that contributes to a balanced ecosystem, being attractive to young people, improving the socio-economic condition of fishermen and safeguarding food security, affirming Portugal as a leading and innovative country in the European context. This is evidenced by the Co-management Committee for Percebe Catch in the Berlengas Natural Reserve, formally established in December 2021 and installed in March 2022, signaling the historic milestone in collaborative and participatory management and proximity work that has been developed with the implementation of the Co-Pesca 2 project, supported by the Community programme Mar 2020, which aimed to strengthen relations between researchers, fishermen and administration entities with licensing and management functions, involving, moreover, local authorities and NGOs (non-governmental environmental organisations) who have developed a leading role in the process. Co-management is also an important milestone in the sustainable management of a natural resource with great economic value, demonstrating that collaborative management, involving all parties, is the future and the path of sustainable development, especially in protected waters. On the basis of the available data, the quantity captured in Berlengas was, on average, 15 t per year in the last five years, representing 15 % of national catches. On the other hand, dust fishing in the Algarve accounts for almost 45 % of all the dust caught and downloaded in Portuguese batches, with an average of more than 2000 tonnes in recent years, representing more than 20 million euros in sales in 2022, a clear proof of its importance in the economic, social and cultural context of the region and the country. For all this, the ParticiCFSPA project, co-financed also by the Operational Programme 2020, aims to implement a system of co-management of dust fisheries in the Algarve, an initiative with the collaboration of various public and private entities and in particular of 14 associations representing more than 700 fishermen throughout the region,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... promoting more participation of local communities, more involvement and co-responsibility by decision-making, more value and more income for fishermen, reducing the pressure on resources. in this context, and before these two intervention axes, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to be of the greatest relevance the financing of these committees, with a view to adopting the measures necessary to achieve its priority objectives and actions, ensuring its proper functioning, promoting a new paradigm in the management of our natural resources, affirming Portugal in its pioneering role and leadership in the sustainability of marine resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u182	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The objective of the Co-management Committee for Perceived Catch in the Berlengas Natural Reserve, as well as the Committee now proposed by the Socialist Party for Dust Fishing in the Algarve, is essentially the pursuit of sustainable fishing, which enables the mitigation of the impact of exploitation in the context of a natural reserve, which we must, of course, protect. The model of co-management designed here implies not only the involvement of fishermen, but also of academics, environmental organisations, appropriate local and national political authorities, in a collaborative logic that we naturally value. However, we noted that, despite the establishment of this committee in 2021, through Portaria No. 309 / 2021, only in January 2023, just over two months ago, we finally had the publication of the portal that would be determining the co-management plan for the achievement of the realization. From 2021 until now, we have had a genuine legal void in regard to this initiative, a learning period that could have been important to form our position on the creation of another committee, in this case, for the capture of dust in the Algarve. We also note that none of the legislation presented demonstrates any clear and appropriate exposure to the concrete objectives, benefits and problems that are intended to be solved with the creation of this committee, although we can obviously deduce, from the proposal and from international examples, that we are faced with still poor legislation, which works in a purely self-referential logic, without pointing out paths and scenarios of what is actually intended to be achieved. The Liberal Initiative will not, however, prevent the allocation of the resources necessary for the proper functioning of this Committee regarding the achievement of the realization, since we understand that this model, although it raises some reservations due to some corporate logic that represents, nevertheless, is a decentralized approach to the sustainable management of these economic activities. Given that in the past this activity has already been banned in the Berlengas, we certainly prefer that it be allowed in the forms proposed by the co-management committee, avoiding the problems for which the Liberal Initiative usually warns, with regard to the incompetence of the central State in managing local realities and specificities. We will therefore pay attention to the success of this model, in the pursuit of the objectives proposed in its co-management plan, with openness to support the replication of this model to the special cases where the local characteristics of the activity so justify, because, due to the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the country where we all live, we need to guarantee a future with freedom and sustainability. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u184	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need to adopt legislation to regulate awareness-raising in a natural reserve is clear evidence that in Portugal, in addition to a serious problem of awareness, there is a serious problem of effectiveness in compliance with the legislation, in particular the legislation that guarantees the protection of natural resources, in particular in an area considered as a reserve. More than regulation, there are no means and no materials to prevent the systemic destruction of marine fauna, which has not been a bet of our country, in the dimension of conservation. The project that the PS brings to us fails, once again, in this dimension, because, in the size of conservation or even animal welfare, in the case of the dust catch in the Algarve, nothing is said on this initiative. If it is true that the harmful activities to habitat conservation require regulation to ensure that human activity does not cause the extermination of species, it is no less true that our society has to rethink the entire fishing industry, in particular fisheries, by promoting changes in the level of consumption. However, in the size of the funding allocation for the establishment of the Co-management Committee for Algarve Dust Dust and also by the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services, it is clear that it is not a priority to develop conservation projects or to improve the control services for which there is no money, as well as the inclusion of animal welfare materials, for the most part when a species with a complex nervous system is concerned. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] This initiative should also have animal welfare measures. For these reasons, we cannot follow her.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u186	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Max Weber, sociologist, explained that legal rationality defines the essence of the state and that the rationality of the state depends directly on legality, and vice versa. The project presented shows that the Portuguese socialists have abandoned the rational state—that is why public services are as they are—and have only remained with the legal state. It's like selling the TV to buy the video, or selling the car to pay the gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u189	The Socialist Party's draft resolution portrays a state that does not stop growing piece by piece, a machine disjointed and rational, enemy of society. Of course, it is the obligation of the State to ensure the sustainability of the awareness-raising in the Berlengas Natural Reserve and also of dust fishing in the Algarve, and it must do so by safeguarding environmental balance throughout the country. The protection of the oceans is also not at stake, nor is it at stake the protection of the fishermen.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u191	The problem is that there are over-entities, which run against each other, to carry out exactly the same functions: the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Economy and the Sea, the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests, the Association Nature Portugal, the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, the Maritime Police. Then there are local entities: the Higher School of Tourism and Technology of the Sea, the Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, in Peniche, the Municipal Chamber of Peniche, the Centre of Sea Sciences, the University of Algarve, the municipal chambers of the Algarve, etc. It is ridiculous to force the Portuguese, embroiled in taxes, to pay another committee dedicated to catching insights in the Berlengas and a committee dedicated to fishing for dust in the Algarve. The lightness with which these legal creations are proposed portrays a monstrous socialist state, without consciousness and without social responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u193	... that insists on growing the flap to serve political customers. We regret Max Weber's wisdom, by the way, a socialist. António Sérgio, a essayist and also a socialist, Portuguese, wrote this about Portugal : « We are the dead kingdom, we are the kingdom of stupidity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u195	The question remains for Mr Salvador Formiga: why is it that it is never to rule rationally, not even for fishermen? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u196	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u197	Mr President, it will only be an assessment of me, but today the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen are a little restless and the noise that makes us in the Chamber a little uncomfortable about our intervention. I would ask the President to make the Chamber have more conditions. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u199	It's true! What a lack of respect for PS and PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u200	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions so that you can speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for this draft resolution which the PS brings to us, Mr. Salvador Formiga, the CFP has no difficulty in accompanying it. We will, of course, vote in favour of the same, which, however, leads us to mention three or four aspects which we consider to be very important, with regard to co-management and financing, and which we must pay attention to. In fact, these processes result in greater participation and involvement in the case of dust fishermen or captors, who accompany all phases of these co-management processes. I would like to greet, present in the galleries, the promotional bodies of the committee, the catchers, fishermen and researchers. Of course, there is another concern that we have: it is that the dust fishing professionals and the captors of the perceptions are used as a pretext for financing research studies and research entities. These, of course, are very valid and are necessary, that is not what is at stake, but professionals should not feel used as a means of financing these institutions and these studies. These processes should be developed taking into account that all information must be made available, in its various stages, shared, discussed and accompanied by fishermen and also catchers. Of course, these studies have to mean something very clear, they have to be a more valuable, from the professional point of view, from the point of view of income and from the point of view of the balanced management of the stock, which, of course, we are very concerned about. The results obtained from these research studies should also be known by the fishing community. Mr President, I would like to tell you, when you referred to the situation, in particular, of sardine fishing, the following: how many, but how many times did our fishermen warn that the sea had already overfished? Oh, my God! The fishermen, who were the main ones sacrificed for the stock to be recovered, warned that the stock was already in recovery and was already in excess. At the same time as fishermen said this, ICES (International Council for the Exploration of the Sea) said : zero quota fishing! Let us imagine what would have happened to these fishermen, if they had remained zero quota, without fishing, without an important revenue, not only from an economic point of view, but also from the point of view of what the country's dynamics means, fish consumption, because we are the biggest fish consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u202	0 % VAT for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u203	What we want to make very clear is that it is essential to study and characterize, even in the case of dust, its stocks, to know and establish the guidelines that must be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u204	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u205	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is also necessary for these studies of marine ecosystems to involve the fishing community, because only then can we have better results and the results can be better understood. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u206	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. [[CH protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I call on them to create conditions for speakers to intervene. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS initiative we are discussing at some point states that « for this co-management committee to function properly, in accordance with Decree-Law No 73 / 2020 of 23 September, money is required to ensure the following actions ». Then list the actions that need to be funded in order to run the committee. The question I have to ask is, why have you only discovered this now? One year ago, the Free Paper presented, in the discussion for the 2022 State Budget, that was the first initiatives in this Parliament, this legislature, exactly the same measure and, at the time, the PS made it impossible for it to do so. Clearly, in order for these types of instruments to function and safeguard our national heritage and living conditions for those living in it, there must be funding conditions. A short time ago, we heard here the expression that all this is bizarre of the state and that it is money spent. Nothing more absurd than someone who does not understand everything how a country works and how it can function a country, valuing people, knowledge and territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u208	And you understand? Oh, my God! You're the smartest guy! You're gonna get it, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u209	The knowledge economy we defend in Portugal passes through universities, passes through fishermen who are on the ground and shares information about people's way of life. So we welcome the organizations of the environment, the fishermen and the people who came from Peniche or Olhão, because we are all, using here the nautical metaphor, rowing on the same side. Fishermen are not against the fish and those who defend the environment are neither against each other. It is sustainability: sustainability of nature and sustainability of the ways of life of people who depend on this sustainability of nature. We will therefore follow this initiative. We're just sorry it's late.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u210	Mr João Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u211	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After welcoming the entities present in the galleries, I would like to begin by congratulating the proponents of this draft resolution, but unfortunately I cannot and must not. It is that, after assessing what is at stake, the kind of recommendation that the Socialist Party is making to a socialist government, which supports with an absolute majority, seems to us totally unusual and even hilarious. [[PSD applause.]] What is being recommended is nothing more than what is already planned. In other words, the Socialist Party is asking the Socialist Party's own government to do something that is already decided by law, but which does not comply. Is it paradoxical? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u212	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u213	It is, yes, but it is not to be admired, for it is customary in the times that run, with this majority. Let us see: Decree-Law No. 73 / 2020 and Ordinance No. 309 / 2021 create and regulate fishing in general and the Co-management Committee for Perceiver Catch in the Berlengas Natural Reserve. The ParticiCFSP project implements the Co-management Committee for Algarve Powder Fisheries. It is therefore assumed that financial resources are needed to dynamize and operationalize the five actions provided for in this legislation. But, curiously and unacceptablely, these words were not planned, so the Socialist Party is now recommending that the Socialist Government make them available to ensure what they promised. Notable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialist Party must not fail to be charged with 'drawing its ears' to the Government, in order to show the need to finance the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Security and Maritime Services, in order to ensure, through these co-management committees, that the Basic Law on the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area should, in fact, be assured that it could not fail to be. Environmental preservation and sustainability of species are the main pillar of the law of bases that we approved in this House, in 2012, therefore, either in the grasp of perceptions, whether in dust fishing, the balance between the economy and the environment, between the fishermen and the preservation of marine ecosystems must be ensured. Without this guarantee, there is no model or co-management that interests. [[PSD applause.]] In essence, despite the co-management and model of ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and the preservation of ecosystems have the greatest merit — that is, we subscribe —, this recommendation is no more than a statement of incompetence to the Government. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the Berlengas Natural Reserve, it is important that the sustainability of the exploitation and management of marine resources be done in a joint and collaborative manner among the various agents, such as seafarers and guardians. For the PSD, it is relevant and essential to ensure that, in a broader perspective, this specific issue of understanding is always considered at the level of the co-management of the natural reserve itself and its own planning instruments. I recall that there is still a need for the renewal of the planning plan to the special programme, so there is still an operational deficit in managing this vastly rich territory in terms of biodiversity. It is important not to forget the marine dimension of this classified area, on which great pressures continue to be exerted either through fishing or through nautical-tourism activity. It is essential to ensure the proper compatibility of objectives and activities to avoid biodiversity losses and mitigate the risks to ecosystems and their ecological productivity. With regard to dust catch in the Algarve, the issue involves a much wider community, which must and deserves to be heard and whose claims deserve to be met as far as possible and desirable. Dust fishing is particularly relevant in the country, assuming particular prominence in the Algarve. of approximately 3000 registered licences at national level, 800 correspond to this region. In the last decade, the sharp decrease in catches has led to large losses associated, marked in terms of profitability and employment, reflecting dramatically on the robustness of the economic and social fabric of the small existing fishing communities. It was in this context that the PSD requested a hearing in 2018 for the guardianship and local economic agents, shipowners and fishermen. At that time, we can recall the difficulties of management measures and the process of inclusion of fishermen in decision-making. The PSD believes that an extended co-management is desirable in the search for new approaches to dust fishing, in particular in the Algarve, enhancing innovative responses that preserve the ecosystem and reconcile it with the associated economic activity. Consequently, the PSD accompanies the establishment of the Co-management Committee for Algarve Powder Fisheries and also demands the need for the Co-management Committee for Perceive in the Berlengas Natural Reserve, providing it with the necessary financial resources. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u214	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the promoters of the Co-management Committee for Algarve powder, fishermen, catchers and, also, at the moment we are discussing, the scientific community. Unfortunately, we cannot greet neither the Socialist Party nor the Government, because those on the ground know that it is hostage to the wars that the PS creates in the country. Let's see: who wants to defend the sustainability of the seas? I believe that, first of all, they are the fishermen. However, it is the government itself that creates anathema about fishermen, accusing them of being responsible for the destruction of the seas. It's not knowing reality! This is the same government which, after structural choices over the sea, continues to leave our seas to plunder foreign industrial fishing vessels, which, indeed, destroy our sea and our resources. But who are those responsible? They're the Portuguese fishermen. Does that make sense? Oh, my God! It makes no sense, but it is the reality of our political choice, it is the reality of our government.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u216	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u217	What does the Socialist Party come here to propose? It is extraordinary, but the Socialist Party, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party that supports the Government which has an absolute majority, has come to propose to the Government to comply with the law. Well, it's extraordinary! So the government is not complying with the law, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! What are you and the ladies? Members of the Socialist Party, of the same party that is in government, do they do on the subject? They say to the government: « Buy the law there, do the favor there! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u219	But is it not the government's obligation to comply with the law? Oh, my God! Is it not the government's obligation to respect catchers, seafarers, respect the scientific community, respect environmentalists, respect the sustainability of the seas? Oh, my God! Yeah, but the government doesn't. We could even discuss whether the law is right or wrong, but we could not even evaluate compliance, because the government does not comply with it. Who then becomes hostage to this breach? They are indeed the communities that live from the sea; it is the country, because it has a strategic resource that is not properly cared for; it is the future, it is the next generations, because the seas are fundamental to responding to climate change and we do not care for them as we should care for them. Could it be different, this government? I could, but the Socialist Party doesn't. What the ladies and gentlemen do. Members of the Socialist Party? They are recommending to the Government: « Come on, don't get very upset, keep the law there. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a little more than that, otherwise this act will only serve to wash the conscience of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and to respond to the honourable Members. Members of the Algarve and Leiria, to, when they go to their districts, they can say: "We did everything we could! The government is not doing it. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS Member Protest Sara Velez.]] But the government is your party, it's your responsibility. This schedule does not remove the weight they have in their conscience, nor does it give you white paper to lie again to fishermen and catchers. So tell them here that they even have the phone number of Mr. Minister or Mr. Minister. State Secretaries, but don't call them, or then call them, but they don't answer. Thus, we realize that the Socialist Party, after all, as a parliamentary group, has very little power before the Government of the Socialist Party. In fact, despite good words and good ideas, those who suffer are always our people. Those who suffer are always these fishermen and these fishermen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u220	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u221	Do you understand or do you not understand?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of this debate, what we realize is that we speak in committees — I do not know whether it is a central committee or not, given the influence the Communist Party had with the Socialist Party — but what I know is that the Socialist Party wants to distract the Portuguese. He doesn't want to know about seafarers or fishermen. This is a fact-of-the-art and the Socialist Party, what you want, this is because, at a time when families have difficulty putting food on the table, the agenda that the Socialist Party made here today is about perceptions. What is the most important subject for the country and for people who have difficulty putting food on the table? You get them. There are still 20,000 students without all the teachers, but the problem in the country is the realization. [[The PSD Member Paula Cardoso's laughs.]] The country fails the goal to decentralize health, but prevents the PRR from being suspended, however, the problem of the country is the perceptions. Internal security: crimes in school context reach higher values in six years, but the problem of the country is the perceptions. [[L. Protests.]] Inspection closed witness of the TAP case (Portuguese Air Transport), but the problem of the country is the perceptions. This agenda of the Socialist Party is to enjoy who you work with, Mr. Salvador Antiga! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]] We have to be aware. There are 230 Members here — or should be at least —...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u223	You can start by asking yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u224	... we're arguing and people at home are wondering about this: what are we talking about here? Oh, my God! We are here discussing whether your perception is greater than mine, if you realize from the Berlengas is greater than that of São Torpes, if the dust of the Algarve is greater than the dust of Viana do Castelo. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u225	Tell that to the fishermen! Tell that to the fishermen who are up there watching!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u226	Mr. Rui Tavares, be there now! He's there alone too, just making noise. Stay there, little fella! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u227	Mr. Pedro Pinto... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Madam Member, please remain silent and allow your colleague to continue his speech. In fact, the honourable Member must finish the speech, because it has already exceeded the time it was given. [[What about Rui Tavares?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u228	May I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u229	If they are not satisfied with the Bureau's decisions, they may appeal to plenary. Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u230	Madam President, here you are not satisfied or not satisfied with the decisions of the Bureau. There is a duality of serious criteria here and the President, particularly, always prevarious. Mr Rui Tavares always doubles his time and we are not saying anything here. I mean...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u231	Mr President, if there is a parliamentary group which frequently and frequently exceeds the speaking time, it is the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u232	It's not enough, absolutely!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u233	The dictatorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u234	In addition, Mr President, comparisons are not regimential. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] It does not appear from the Rules of Procedure that comparisons can be made between speaking times. They are assigned and the Bureau has the right to manage in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, in accordance with the evaluation of the use of the word. Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u235	Madam President, what I ask you is that you should not forget that when you leave the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party to preside over the Assembly of the Republic, you are no longer a Member of the Socialist Party and can defend the Socialist Party, which is what you have done. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because what the Portuguese ask at home is what we are discussing here. Some don't even know what you understand. Look, one realizes this is what's here! The speaker showed an image of insight. You see, this is it. This is what we discussed here a whole morning. It was a whole morning that we were here discussing this.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u236	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u237	Any day, we're gonna be here discussing the snail, the perception, we're gonna be discussing all this. I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u238	Everyone knows what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u239	There's a lot of people who don't know. Perhaps there are even Members of the Socialist Party who do not know. Madam President, I will end by saying that you realize it grows this way: the wave hits the rock and — back! — it realizes it grows; the wave knocks again and sees it grow again. It reminds us of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u241	Every time the President interrupts my arrival, she grows up in polls, and that's why we're growing up. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u242	We have concluded the debate on this point and we will move on to the closing phase. To that end, Mr Salvador Antiga of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u243	Mr President, I thought I had seen everything, but I think today we have exceeded unacceptable limits. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u244	It was a lack of respect, above all, by the sardine fishermen, who in 2015 went through enormous difficulties,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u245	They're not sardines!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u246	...without knowing how long they would be deprived to support their families, whether it was only that year or if it was for more years. Mr. Deputies should respect the families who suffered in the skin,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... and what we are trying to do today is to fund committees that are in the embryonic phase and that need this boost, because only with science and with the participation of fishermen will we be able to return to the need for sustainability of marine resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u247	And the wind farms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u248	We all like to receive at the table the realizations, the dust, the sardine, but it is important to know that the resources are depleted. That's important to know! And when they wear out, it is the fishermen who hurt, in the pocket, so it was important to have more respect for fishermen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important, too, to know what good is done. In politics we also have to be able to recognize what is good and here we have to give credit and recognition to all the entities that have participated in the development of these committees. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is good, too, for the opposition, to know how to recognize what is good. Besides, I think it's all said.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u249	Yeah, it's better. You don't have anything else to say either!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u250	We know who we can count on and, above all, the fishermen and all the entities involved in these committees leave here today, who they can count on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u251	Fishermen can count on wind farms!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u252	We move on to the fourth item on our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 258 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the prohibition on the marketing of burning wood resulting from forest fires. To present this bill, Mr. Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u253	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussions of this Parliament cannot be idle, nor can national chagas be forgotten. We are on the last day of the first quarter of the year—there are only 82 days left for the summer—and only the Arrival is concerned about scheduling this fire problem. We speak with truth and only with truth. These seven and a half years of socialist government have only brought us incendiary and land-burning policies; they have destroyed education, destroyed housing, health, security and defense and also the future of the Portuguese. Socialists are like this! But today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing forest fires and how to minimize this scourge. Without wanting to return to the painful memory of the tragic year 2017, a historic moment disgraced by the 114 lives lost in the fires, the truth is that we simply retreated to 2022 to see that 110 000 ha were burned in Portugal. It was the fifth highest value of burned area since 2012. The fact is that, of these 110 000 have been burned, the ICNF shows us that 28 000 ha were protected areas. It's true! It is the fourth worst number for 48 years, the highest number since the hottest year of 1975. The truth is that Portugal was the most burned European country last year. The truth is the state has failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u254	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u255	And the truth is also shown, then, a direct correlation between socialism and fires. If the prevention of these two is not well done and effective, they arrive through the silence of the night and burn everything, transforming the coloured fields into black-ash cemeteries. [[Congrats from the CH.]] These truths, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they should be ashamed of the political forces that have passed this forgotten winter of this national chaga and that today they do not bring to the agenda of the Arrival any — I repeat, none! — initiative. It's not enough you ignore, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the country, afflicted, that you abandon. You draw a red line between the politically correct of your benches and the affliction of the Portuguese, but the Portuguese know that they can count on the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When the common cause of this distress is arsonism — 28 % — it is very urgent to adopt structural solutions in addition, in particular the one we bring today, to prohibit the marketing of burned wood. But this PS, what will you say? He'll say the same thing he's been saying for decades, he's going to invest. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen the promises of 2021 to the More Transparency portal and 89 million euros have been planned, but only EUR 38 million has been paid, less than half; 179 vehicles have been delivered and up to this day, 0% have been delivered, i.e. 0% have been executed; the installation of double polarization radars, with 0% executed; the delivery of six bombers helicopters has so far been executed zero. And, look at it, ladies. Members, the only measure that exceeded 100 % of the implementation is the one that fattens the state, the one that creates more structures. It has 116 % implementation for the Civil Protection Authority. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot play with fire, because whoever plays with fire burns. Thus, as has been reported, both by SIC News and TVI24, the economic benefits of forest fires and the pine mafia cannot be ignored. There are, in fact, economic benefits that show disturbing realities. Our project prevents fires with economic motivation and there is hope. Now is the time to act, not next summer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u256	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival presents us with a bill that supposedly intends to combat the interests around the forest fire drama, which we obviously follow, in particular in the dimension of the fight against the firewood business resulting from these same fires. The way it proposes a solution is that it is already a path in which we diverge, because the solution presented by the Arrival, to be achieved, would have a more devastating effect on the environment than the fires themselves. The solution that arrives at us determines the combustion of tons of wood resulting from forest fires, in biomass plants, thus generating high carbon emissions to the atmosphere, which we cannot actually follow. Now, at a time of climate emergency—well knowing that the arrival is a negationist of climate change—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u258	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u259	... what needs to be done is an energy transition, and not being contributing to the problem of global warming. The fire problems are not solved by burning the wood that results from them. We understand, yes, that there must be compensation for ecosystem services; there must be a monitoring of the scale of the crime of fires, and in this regard we fully agree; we must attract people to the interior of the country. It is a path that needs to be made to reverse years of promotion policies not only of eucalyptus as the dependence of vast forest areas that have contributed to the desertification of the interior itself. But I remember that the Government has made a commitment to reverse the direction of the march with regard to the biomass strategy in Portugal as well as the commitment to the Climate Bases Act, which is to be regulated and where the government has to come to land with its regulations. As for the fight against fires and the fate of burning wood, it is a debate that we understand that both the Assembly and society have to do, because it is a complex, very complex debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u260	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u261	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. This is a very complex debate in its management, so we cannot follow the proposed solution. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u262	Mr António Monteirinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u263	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs. Members: The Bill No. 258 / XV / 1. the, which determines the ban on the commercialization of burned wood resulting from forest fires, which, above all, centred on the fire that devastated the Serra da Estrela, is now presented by the party Arrival, is at least radical, because it represents a direct interference of the state in the economy, generally punishing all those who engage in the trade in wood, whether or not they are responsible for the fires. We admit, in this matter, that there may also be damage to this objective, but it does not seem reasonable to generalize, with a law of this nature, mere suspicions of illegitimate, immoral and illegal profit interests. Such measures would accept-CL, yes, if the wood concerned were the direct result of concrete criminal acts, proven and clearly imputable to those responsible, which, however, should be determined and judged by the judiciary, already existing legislation providing for these sanctions.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u265	Our fundamental philosophy is not to promote blind coercive measures, but to promote measures to promote balance and the environmental economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this case, the truth is that it is not even demonstrable that part of the forest fires is explained by the reasons that justify and justify this bill, although the news from newspapers or televisions is not enough reason to become a decision of this extent and gravity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the real fight against these practices must be carried out in advance: the amount, through, on the one hand, of planning and settlement of the forest and, on the other hand, of constant prevention and surveillance devices in the effective fight; and, downstream, through the investigation and punishment of possible crimes, detected and proven, whether they are motivated by this or by any other reason. For example, the concern to encourage the recovery and preservation of forests, as recently happened with the project of the voluntary carbon market, promoted by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, aiming to increase the financial profitability of forest producers and contributing to this project to promote surveillance and active mechanisms in our forest, can prove to be much more effective than purely punitive measures that this bill wants to create.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u266	Punitive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u267	This measure helps to preserve forests and to respond, on our scale, to the demands of combating the planet's climate sustainability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u268	It's the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u269	It does not seem wise, therefore, to move forward with a simplistic and broad-spectrum measure banning, on the one hand, the entry of burnt wood into the economic circuit and, on the other hand, giving it a destination that still takes more value to the product, with the use of biomass for the production of energy, that is what the project of arrive says. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You don't have to be a specialist in these matters to realize that this wood can have more economically valuable and advantageous uses than just as a source of energy. But this legislative measure, proposed here, is at the forefront of what we want and we consider to be good forest policies. It is also presented as a blind measure that hits negative and directly the economy and to all alike, whether or not they are responsible for the deflaming of the fires. I would also like to draw attention to the dual penalizing dimension of the forest owner, who, when the burning wood loses value, adds this loss of value to the injury that occurs if it cannot be sold. If it is the State to compensate forest owners, we are encouraging a negative action with the potential of huge fraud. On the other hand, an exaggerated intervention by the State on the market, such as this one, reducing the commercial value and use of burned wood and based on an explanation that does not find a solid basis that sustains it, does not seem to me to be sensible, either politically or economically.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u270	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u271	I will finish, Madam President. The size of the case and the extent of the measure are not at least equivalent and are not even solid and proven grounds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u272	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue of fires could not be more serious — they are more than 100 000 hectares a year — and there should also be no more debate in Portuguese society. We all have today the perfect consciousness of which are the risk factors of fire, since the disorder of the territory, the fragmentation of property, the desertification of our interior and of the territories with forest fitness or the absence of cleaning of forests, both private and public land. But for these risks to constitute effective deflagrations, something else has to happen. There are natural causes, there are accidental neglects, but there are also criminal piromanias and land or commercial interests, also criminals. And it is in relation to these last two needs for deflagration that arrives to us today to propose a solution. We already have a heavier hand in monitoring and penalizing the incendiary phenomenon, but the Reach, for those who never reach the hand is heavy, will try to put even more weight on the matter. And do what? It proposes a ban—there is always prohibitions or obligations! — the sale of burning wood in any fire. On the way, he makes the state do what? Make the State buy wood—excellent idea! Make the State pay for wood — I'm going to see what day of St. Never! Make the state burn wood for biomass — excellent environmental idea! — or to sell the burning wood, in the same way, reintroducing the commercial motivation it intended to eliminate. In other words, it puts the State everywhere and then it has faith that the parallel market will not appear, as always,. This is a proposal which does not solve any of the problems it wants to solve, which creates others and shows that the better the better the state, the better the better the better the prohibitions. And there is no better definition of the differences that separate us than this: for us, less prohibitions and less state. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u274	Mr Carlos Cação, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate shows well what the PSD has been reporting, i.e. the lack of rigour, the lack of criteria and, above all, a propaganda campaign on everything and everyone. Today, once again, we talk about a subject that haunts the country every summer, we talk about the topic of forest fires. We therefore argue that the ban on the sale of the burned wood resulting from these fires is prohibited and that the proposal here does not respond to the problem itself, does not respond to what is really at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u276	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u277	We recognize the goodwill of the initiative, which aims to contribute to one of the biggest scourges in the country, which is to see, year after year, a very high area of the burned territory, following fires, suspected of being sometimes associated with economic reasons. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u278	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u279	Mr President, I believe that you have only now noticed the mistake you made in bringing this bill here, but you have to listen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u280	You're not proposing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u281	But the truth is that the imposition proposed by the Arrival does not satisfy, does not seem viable to us, nor is it the way to prevent fires. Understand that all burned wood is considered lost in favour of the State, as described in Article 4. that of the diploma, it is not an effective solution, nor is it the desirable one.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u283	What is the PSD solution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u284	It is important that the State should remove the burned wood from the site and promote its use for energy production through biomass is, in our view, incomprehensible. It costs us even to understand how the arrival, which so much accuses the government of incompetence in public management, has now proposed that it be the government to manage the products resulting from fires! [[PSD applause.]] The National Forest of Leiria is a clear example of public management, or lack of it, and of the excessive laziness it places in the implementation of its measures on the ground. The State or national forests have their own means, which would be to respond to competent and effective management of all burned wood. In addition, it would like the burning wood to be, all of it, sent to biomass to raise, from the very outset, questions of favouring the biomass industry and reveals a complete lack of knowledge of reality, because we cannot forget that, after being damaged by forest fires, a large part of the wood retains relevant commercial value. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with all honesty, this bill seems even to set up an abusive attack on woodworkers, since it seeks to link the economic interest of the trees to the scourge of fires...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u286	... where it refers to the use of the situation to pay a third of the value for the burnt wood. Instead of fighting fires, this bill even encourages them, as it presents the burning matter as useful and valuable for energy production.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u287	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u288	On the other hand, it removes national wood from the industry and promotes imports, because not all the burned wood, as mentioned above, is lost, with a single destination for energy production purposes through biomass. The ban on the marketing of burning wood can negatively influence the small rural economy, which depends heavily on the production and sale of wood—so it directly affects its subsistence. In many regions, wood is the only fuel option for rural families and not only, which can lead to a clandestine market for the sale of wood and result in a loss of control over the activity. Measures are necessary, yes, but effective, viable, fair and sustainable measures... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u289	... being sure that the PSD accompanies and defends the need of the State to support owners whose land has been victims of fires, with economic damage to their own and with environmental and social damage to the territory. It is important to ensure that minimum selling prices are guaranteed that do not harm the affected forest owners and producers, in particular through the creation of firewood collection and storage parks for subsequent sale in public and control of the entry of wood into the market. [[PSD applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that the motivation of this debate is again the problem of rural fires, a problem which, with the reform of the forest, the government has not been able to attack and which, with the agricultural policy that has been raised, would not be contrary, on the contrary. Therefore, what is really needed — and that the PSD has been successively demanding — is that the government is strongly involved in the prevention of fires and in support of forest owners and producers, in particular by creating conditions for the forest to be economically sustainable, so that at least it is able to bear the costs of its maintenance and is not a constantly charge-generating liability to its owners. The PSD defends a reform of the forest turned to the forest and not to the abstract. A forest that ensures the landscape and environmental sustainability, but also a forest turned to production. It was with this position that we defended, in the forestry reform, the creation of a biodiversity grant, compulsory for each treery or re-arborization with species of rapid growth. The competitiveness of forest companies must be met and valued in public policies. That is why we are pleased to note that the National Forestry Council has finally reconvened, in order to listen to the various actors in the sector, and it is good for the Government to realize that it is still far from the objectives and expectations that legitimately the forest owners and producers it expects. We reiterate the need for an effective link between the environment and the economy with regard to forests. For all this, excuse me to say that the PSD will not follow the claims of this bill of arrival. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u290	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is worrying. He aims, above all, to transform the business of burning wood into the cause of fires, and this, in addition to being worrying, has perverse effects. In fact, we do not ignore or neglect what criminal and incendiary behaviours are, which must in fact have their fight, but the causes go far beyond that. There are concerns that we should have, in particular, with brutal passiveity in the face of monopolization of the forest line. I'm talking about cases of cellulose duopoly, pine monopoly and cork monopoly. These, yes, are the first causes of degradation of forest production prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u293	All within the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u294	We must also be concerned with the refusal of intervention in these markets, which were fundamental even through the Competition Authority. Mrs. Members, how is it possible that there is no transparency in the formulation of wood prices in Portugal? How is it possible that a producer, who sells wood, Viana do Castelo, Bragança or Monchique does not know the prices that are practised at all? — it is entirely in the hands of the monopoly of these companies and these industries! What must also be known and taken into account is that Portugal continues to pay a heavy bill of right-wing policy, successive governments that have promoted the economic and human desertification of vast territories, the lack of liquidation, the promotion of the liquidation of thousands of forest farms and the profitability of forestry production in particular. All these consequences of the fires did not fall from heaven. These consequences are a heavy burden on the policy of degradation of public services, including the Ministry of Agriculture — which has so far passed over the area of forests to the Ministry of the Environment — in particular by failing to cope with all these monopolies which are subordinated to the policies of the European Union. But we can ask: does the government know or don't know what you're doing? The government has always done, does and will do what it knows best to do, which is to make laws. Now, defending the forest, that's, you don't know how to do it. Because this is not a matter of wisdom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a class matter and class interests. This is a matter of policies that are subject to monopoly capital. Until we take this, we are feeding the circle of depopulation, this vicious circle: less employment; more emigration or migration; ageing of the population; depopulation; decrease of productivity; less consumption; less investment; less public services; as it is natural, again, less employment; and, at the end of this circle that binds everything, more fires. That is why we have to ask who this country rules today about its responsibilities. In particular, we can call to mind the responsibilities for climate; for incendiaries, as does arrive; for authorities, how much they like to do the PS; or for small forests, for whom the government has always blamed! I'm asking the ladies. Members of the PS Parliamentary Group remain responsible for the policies of successive governments, including yours. [[PCP applause.]] It's just that we have to take into account that policies...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u295	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u296	I will finish, Mr. President. We must take account of the fact that in fiscal restraint policies, policies that lead to the disorder of the forest, the lack of prevention, the lack of cleaning, the lack of Florist guards, these policies we see no interest or will or wisdom in doing so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u297	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u298	Mr President, in the previous debate, we heard mingle, stack the interests of fishermen and dust catchers, in the Algarve, or of understanding, in the Berlengas. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Now, with this project, presented by the same speakers who did it, we see to run over and spit not only those who have small plots with wood as well as the victims — the victims! — fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u299	The victims, yes! Say your eyes in your eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u300	Because, look: a person has a small property with forest and an incendiary goes there and grabs fire. Who does this project intend to punish? The person who was a victim of the fire!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u301	With compensation!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u302	With compensation? But, honourable Member, I heard yesterday, in the Possible Committee for Constitutional Review, that it was against the social function of property and talk a lot about expropriation. But what is proposed here is an expropriation which does not respect Article 62. the Constitution, which says that there can only be expropriation with fair compensation! [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] What you say in this project is that the person is compensated to clear the ground, not that it is compensated for what you lost. So they don't even respect your convictions yesterday! But we know that yesterday's convictions are not the convictions of today, so it is important that the people be attentive. I don't even talk about the issue of biomass burning anymore, because nobody knows if you believe or don't believe in climate change, it's as the wind blows. What is important is that the people be attentive, because whoever envelops the fishermen, who then comes to victimize those who have been victims of the fires, and does so against their own convictions, is because they do not have good intentions, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u303	Don't point your finger! Pointing your finger is ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u304	Anyone who hears only the title of the proposal and does not hear the rest risks falling into the account of the vicar. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u305	What you guys do is hide who's got a lot of land!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u306	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Left Block. [[CH protests and L-protests.]] I ask for silence. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u307	It's to sneeze who has a plot and was the victim of an incendiary!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u308	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] The other Peter will let you speak to Peter who has the right to speak now.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of forest fires is very serious, particularly in our country, with the recent past that we have been marked by the loss of many lives. Therefore, the first word must always be of solidarity with those who have lost property, with those who have lost family, with those who have lost their lives and left a future to fulfill, and of responsibility, that the country has to have, to respond to this legacy. On this subject, being too serious, I should start by telling the Arrival that I expected your colleagues to repudiate what happened, for example, last summer, when, while a fire was on, Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro stopped making videos for Facebook, direct to social networks — videos for Facebook when there was a tragedy going on! [[Racist!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u310	This shows well what politics and entertainment is and what it is to have an empathic thought with the victims of forest fires. Clearly, this did not exist in that reality. But I think it is worth discussing the content of the bill of arrival, regardless of this recent past that binds itself, or themselves — there they will know!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u311	Proximity policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u312	For example, on one of the measures that could respond to the problems of the forest — the promotion of land exchanges; land sharing; the guarantee of small property, which does not give profitability, is transformed into a wider property, with other prospects of transformation — the arrival says: « Attention, there comes socialism! It's an attack on private property! » This is the response of the Comes to this proposal, which is fundamental to changing the structure of forest property and to guarantee you some viability. However, what does arrive now propose in this bill? It proposes that the State be responsible—because it is given as lost in favour of the State—for removing burned wood and promoting its use for energy production purposes. Now, the State, which promotes parceling to ensure profitability, is socialist because it will attack private property, but can enter private property inside to remove private wood, because that is what the Arrival proposes! Coherence is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u313	If there's fire!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u314	And what do you propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u315	That's it, sir, that's it. If you don't know your project, read it. I'll read article 4. the, again, « Burned wood is considered to be lost in favour of the State, which must proceed with its removal ». It is the State that must proceed, and this is white letter for the State to enter private property! Mr Member, I confess that we can discuss private property structurally—and the position of the Block is that it does not have a sacrosanct right, fulfils a social function—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u316	It is only "sacred"!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u317	...but that has not been the position of the Reach! Now, it's another example of your consistency. Still yesterday, we heard: “Local housing? No, private property, it can't be! » And now the state can enter with the machines through the private terrain inside to remove the private wood. Well, get organized. They organize and know what they say.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u318	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u319	But there is another accusation here, and I wanted to follow the whole chorus of criticism in this sense, until I come from a rural region, with a lot of forest, and I know this reality. There may be—because I don't put my hand into the fire for everyone—one or another badly-intended person in the wood business, it's a heinous charge to say that fires all turn out to trade firewood. And that's exactly what's implied in this bill of arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u320	But who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u321	We therefore turn away from this accusation, from this generalization over all the rural heritage and all its people and say that, yes, within Portugal, there are good people in the forest areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u322	People who vote in arriving!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u323	People who deserved better public policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u324	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u325	Mr President, I conclude with this sentence: some people deserve help to derive profitability from the forest and it is essential to ensure both the sustainability of the forest and the sustainability of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH and IL Member Protests João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u326	You now have the floor to speak to Mr. André Ventura from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u327	Mr President, our project is indeed radical. It is radical, because it is radical the problem with fires that we have in Portugal for years. For years, the Portuguese have seen their land burn, their properties being destroyed, their dead animals and their lives completely destroyed. In 40 years, the game system — CDS, PSD, PS, PCP and Left Block — what did you do to solve this problem? Zero! [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u328	And today, that we are debating this problem with an innovative, radical, bold solution, we were actually waiting for the proposals of the other parties. And here is the proposal from the Left Block: there is no. Here is the PS proposal: it does not exist. Here is the PSD proposal: it does not exist. The Liberal Initiative is here: it does not exist. Here is the Free: there is no. And here's the one about the NAP: it doesn't exist. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In 40 years they did not make a proposal—not one! — the problem of fires. Mr President, Portugal last year had the largest burning area in Europe. Thousands of people have seen their lives affected and, yes, there is a perverse and obscure business of wood around the fires. If you don't want to see it, you're complicit!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u330	They're complicit in the negotiation around the fires!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u331	What about the victims? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u332	We will not allow this negotiation to continue. But yes, the PSD says it's going to propose a biodiversity grant, and I think who's at home said, « Oh, the biodiversity bag! This was what was needed to fight fires, the biodiversity bag! Do not keep on seeking. ” According to Mr. PSD, now we are going to listen to the actors in the sector. Now, sir? Forty years of fires and they're just gonna start listening to people now? Oh, my God! Now you want a biodiversity advice? Oh, my God! Now you want to do something? Oh, my God! Now? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u333	It's not just now, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u334	We have no doubt, because only in 2022 did we have 10 500 fires. The honourable Member and the Socialist Party say 'we will do this after the trials'. Do you know how long the trial takes, sir? Do you know what it would be to judge and only then ban the sale of wood? The wood would be rotten, nor would it be useful to make the benches of this Parliament. Have a sense! Have a sense of what he says! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, Mr President — and I will finish — today it is clear that there is a party who wants to combat the enormous perversion of the fire business and there is a whole system that wants to be next to that business and that system. on our part, we will continue to fight so that this business is not possible and that good incendiary be held forever! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u335	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo da IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u336	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to, with the same indignation from Mr Ventura, confirm that we have no proposal here! We do not have, but in the day when we have a proposal with more state, it will not be a proposal with prohibitions and it will not be a proposal to attack private property! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Rice from the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u337	Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão has the floor for an intervention to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the end of the debate on our legislative initiative, we must remember what all the parties in this House did last summer. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we know what they did last summer. We know of the steamed Kamov helicopters, we know of the broken drones, we know of the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal), which fails, and we know of the remaining propaganda of management and the PS, which have ruled us for so many years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the forest continues to burn and today the parties of the system have not brought a single solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u339	What about Madeira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u340	They could come to the debate with the finish line, but no. They chose to be all against one. We're already used to it, but the Portuguese out there are looking at you and they know they're counting on arriving. The Kamov, the drones, the failed SIRESP, are the milestones that define the competence of Antonio Costa, the PCP, the Left Block and the PS in the fight against fires. They're useless. They don't serve to extinguish fires, they don't serve to fly, they only serve to burn millions of euros to the taxpayers and to the friends of all time. After these phantoms of past summers, António Costa now launches the future summer ghost: he wants to close the Portuguese at home whenever the socialist civil deprotection wants. Whenever there is fire danger, let's close the populations at home! We can't meet this idea, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. They also called us « negationists». Well, negationists, perhaps, are those girls your friends, the « Gretas » of life, who were now forced to erase a tweet where they said the world was going to end in 2022, when, after all, we are already in 2023. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is to be a negationist, that is to be apocalyptic in relation to the end of the world, and that, in fact, is not arrive. No one can ignore that there is an immediate and obscure economic benefit that shows disturbing realities about the fires, which have been reported, as if they were planned, in which the purchase of the wood was already pre-established and the burned wood was already pre-supply.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u342	This has been reported by the media, but if they do not believe they claim with the media. Our project comes, yes, to prevent fires with an economic motivation, compensating forest owners injured by fire. It is a bold proposal, it is a proposal that has given a solution to a problem that has been attacking us for years and years and to which you have not been able to answer. You need to have the courage to solve the problems. If you have the courage, stand up today and approve the legislative initiative of the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u343	That is how we end this item on the agenda. We turn to the vote and I call on the services that operate the quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão, from the Czech Republic, indicates that you have not been able to register, Mr Nuno Carvalho also... have you succeeded? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u344	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u345	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u346	Mr President, I cannot register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u347	Has any other honourable Member not been able to register? [[Pause.]] All of you. Ladies and gentlemen, did you hear me ask if anyone couldn't register? [[Pause.]] All right. I would ask the services to close the quorum verification system and to advertise the result, please. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, we are going to vote. We begin with the Vote Project No. 306 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities and by the Members of the Parliamentary Group of Amizade Portugal-Israel )............................................................................................................ I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u348	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « In 2020, the Assembly of the Republic consecrated 31 March as National Day of Memory of Inquisition Victims through Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2020 of 26 March. As historian Jorge Martins said, this day is set up as a “resurrection of the memory of the various victims of the Inquisition, from the Jews to followers of other creeds. ” The Inquisition entered Portugal in 1536 and ended in 1821, one year after the Liberal Revolution. The persecutions to the so-called “ heretics ” lasted 285 years and, of the existing records, we know that between 1543 and 1684, the Inquisition condemned in Portugal 19 247 people, of whom 1379 were burned and hundreds died in prison while awaiting trial. The most frequently persecuted heresy by the court was that of the alleged Jewish practices of the so-called “new Christians. ” Since the formation of Portuguese nationality, there have been signs of the presence of Jews and Jewish communities. However, the trajectory of this minority in Portugal has not always been peaceful. At the time of D. Manuel I, Jews converted to Christianity were called new Christians, in a clear demonstration of inequality with other Christians. The three centuries of Inquisition destroyed Portuguese Judaism, contributing decisively to almost total deletion of collective memory. This memory must be recovered and it is necessary to ensure that the past does not repeat itself. Members of the Parliamentary Group of Friends of Portugal-Israel and the Signatory Members of the Assembly of the Republic of the Inquisition of the Memory of the Victims of Inquisition, 31 March are pleased. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary therefore decides: 1 - To welcome all national initiatives that allow the past of the Inquisition not to be forgotten, such as the inauguration of the House of Inquisition in this March, in Castelo de Vide, the Damião de Gois Museum of Gois and the Victims of the Inquisition in Alenquer, as well as the recent convening and celebration by the Assembly of the Republic of the 200 years of the Constitution of 1822, which marked the end of the Inquisition in Portugal. 2 - To prevent the past from repeating itself, they appeal to the Members of Parliament and to the Members of the Commission. Members of this House who actively combat prejudice and anti-Semitism. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u349	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] Mrs Paula Santos, from the CFP, informed the Bureau that she would present a written statement of vote as well as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block. Be registered. We passed the Vote Project No. 307 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, IL, BE, and PAN )................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u350	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On the morning of March 28, a man unleashed a violent attack at the Ismaili Center in Lisbon, killing two women, Mariana Jadaugy and Farana Sadrudin. The suspect of these crimes, 28 years old, is of Afghan nationality, and came to Portugal, as a refugee, together with the three minor children, having already considered the police authorities “averted all signs of terrorism”. This vile attack took place within the ismaelita community, a Muslim community very well integrated for several decades in Portuguese society, developing the Ismaili Centre in Lisbon, since its inauguration in 1998 in the context of development support, with an important work of educational, social and cultural charis, including the integration of refugees. This attack, which shocked everyone, was perpetrated in an institution that works for the common good, counting on the dedication of such people as victims, two young women, whose generous and supportive spirit has been emphasized by many in recent days. The tragedy ended with the prompt response of the police authorities, who soon ran to the site, neutralizing the aggressor, as well as medical emergency services, who attended the present and the teacher injured during the attack. in these days of great constancy, we have witnessed multiple manifestations of solidarity by Portuguese society and political and religious institutions, to which Parliament is associated through this vote. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Mariana Jadaugy and Farana Sadrudin, addressing their families and friends, as well as the Islamite community and the representative of Imamat Ismaili in Lisbon, the most sympathetic condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u351	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence, in the gallery, of Commander Nazim Ahmad, in representation of the Ismaelita community of Portugal and also of the family members of the two victims, to whom address the most sympathy on behalf of Parliament. As I am sure that this will in no way harm the integration of the community between us and the remarkable work that Imamat has done in collaboration with the Portuguese authorities. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mr Pedro Pinto pointed out to the Bureau that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a declaration of vote in writing. I invite all of you to join us in a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to the general vote on the Bill No 70 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transitional application of VAT exemption to certain food products. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH and the IL, and with abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The proposal goes down to 5. the Commission. The Freeman informed the Bureau that he was going to make a written statement of vote on this vote and that he was going to arrive. We then have a set of three requests, if I know it, from the committee. This is to bring down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, Bills No. 59 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes ( 55. the amendment to the Penal Code), 513 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change criminal legislation to give greater protection to victims of sexual crimes, 599 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrates the public nature of crimes of rape and other crimes against sexual freedom by amending the Penal Code and 671 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes. They are four lower requirements for the Commission, and I wonder if we can vote them together. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on these requests in general. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] All the requirements were approved unanimously and therefore the respective bills are down to 1. the Commission, without a vote. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 681 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of crimes against sexual freedom by amending the Criminal Code and the Law on Access to Law and the Tribunals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project goes down to 1. the Commission. We will now review the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 23 / XV / 1. a — Regulates the conditions under which the death of an assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, with the vote, in the speciality, of the proposed amendments. First of all, we voted on the amendment tabled by the PS, the IL, the BE, and the PAN to amend Article 2 ( f ). o [[Submitted to the vote, subject to vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, IL, IL, IL, IL, the PAN, the L and 6 PSD Members (André Coelho Lima, Cataré Rocha Ferreira, Isabel Meireles, Monaco Quintela, Rosina Ribeiro Pereira and Sofia Matos), votes against CH, PCP, PCP, 5 PS De De Deputees (Cristina Sousa, João Pedro Sousa, João Suusa, João Suusa, João Azevedodo, Maria João Rroa Firo, Marló, Marló, Antonio Antonio Cuná, Antonio Cronio Cronia Rròa, António Topa Firoa Fironia, António Topa Goraya, António Topa Mirara Goronia, Artio Mouriera M then, Romania, Artio Moche Gonaeraera was put to vote, subject to vote. Subject to vote. Subject to vote, it was put to vote, it was put to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote on vote on vote on vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote on vote (P subject to vote (P to vote on vote on vote (P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: recorded vote of Ru L and on vote of Ru L and on vote (PPPPPPP of Ru L and on vote of Ru L and on roll roll roll roll roll::::::::::: Mr RPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP]] It is as follows: « Article 2. o Definitions For the purposes of this Law: (a) [...] [...] (b) [...] (c) [...] (d) [...] (e) [...] (f) Suffering of great intensity: suffering from serious and incurable disease or permanent injury of extreme gravity, with great intensity, persistent, continuous or permanent and considered intolerable by the person itself; (g) [...] (h) [...] Do not keep on seeking. ” In the meantime, Mr. PSD Members Alexandre Poço, Fatima Ramos, Firmino Marques, Lina Lopes, Maria Emília Apolinário and Paulo Mota Pinto made the Bureau aware that they will deliver written explanations of vote on this vote. [[Pause.]] We now turn to the vote on the amendment tabled by the PS, IL, BE and PAN to add a new paragraph 5 to Article 3. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u352	Mr President, I question the Bureau and, in asking the Bureau the whole House to know whether we can vote together on all the amendments. That is because, in my political sense, I understand that the votes may be all the same. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u353	The Bureau does not object and also does not object to the benches, so we shall then proceed to the vote together on the two remaining amendments. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose you will also agree to include in the bloc the vote on the new decree. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall vote together on the amendments tabled by the PS, IL, BE, and PAN to add a new paragraph 5 to Article 3. the amendment to Article 9 ( 2 ). the, as well as the new decree, with the amendments introduced. [[Submitted to vote, subject to vote, were approved, subject to vote, subject to vote, with votes in favour of the PS, IL, IL, IL, IL, PAN, L and 6 PSD Members (André Coelho Lima, Cataré Rocha Ferreira, Isabel Meireles, Monaco Quintela, Rosina Ribeiro Pereira and Sofia Matos), votes against CH, PCP, PCP, L and L, L and L and 6 PSD Members (Ristina Coelá, Catario Roelho Lima, Cata Rocha Ferreira, Isabel Roeló Lima, Catarina Roulello, Isabeli, IL, IL, IL, IL IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL IL, IL, L, L, L, L, L, L and IL, L, L of L and IL, L and IL, L of L and 6 Members of L and 6 Members of MP voting voting vote vote, I voted vote vote vote vote, were put to vote vote vote vote, voting for vote vote vote vote vote vote vote, I voted to vote, I voted to vote, I voted to vote, I voted vote vote vote, I voted to vote vote, I voted to vote, I voted in vote vote vote, I voted for vote vote vote vote (V in favour (V in vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote (R (R (R (R (R (V in favour (V in favour (V in favour (R and 6 vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote vote (R and 6 Vice in favour (R and 6 Vice in favour (R in favour, I will in favour (R and 6 vote vote vote vote vote vote (R RR R RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR RR R in favour, Vice:::::::::::::::::: Vice Vice Vice Vice Vice Vice in favour, I will in favour, I will were approved, I will in favour]] The amendments are as follows: « Article 3. The death of non-punishable assisted medicine 1 - [...] 2 - [...] 3 - [...] 4 - [...] 5 - The death assisted medicine can only occur by euthanasia when the assisted drug suicide is impossible due to the physical disability of the patient. 6 - [ Current No. 5 ] 7 - [ Current No. 6 ] » « Article 9. o Concretization of the patient's decision 1 - [...] 2 - The guidance physician informs and informs the patient about the methods available to practice amortised assisted medicine, including the self-administration of lethal drugs by the patient himself or the administration by the physician or health professional duly qualified for this purpose, but under medical supervision, when the patient is physically unable to administer lethal drugs. 3 -... 4 -... 5 -... ” Mr. João Barbosa de Melo asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u354	I would like to inform the Bureau that, along with more than 20 Members of the PSD, we will present a statement of vote on all these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u355	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, continuing to vote, return to page 5 of the main script, with the vote on draft resolution No 482 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government issue guidelines to ensure the effective right of access of all citizens to the Public Administration, ensuring the possibility of face-to-face and spontaneous care in all its services. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 677 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 58 / 2016 of 29 August, providing face-to-face assistance to the public to beneficiaries of priority care. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CH and IL and with abstentions from the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] I would like to draw the attention of the parliamentary groups to the fact that we will have lawyers. Therefore, the voting period will be long and I will not proceed to any vote if the voting quorum is in danger. Make it clear to everyone. This circumstance has never been placed before nor will it ever be placed with me. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u356	We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 442 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government be provided with financial resources the Cohesion Committee for the Catch of Perceives in the Berlengas Natural Reserve ( GNI) and the creation and financing of the Algarve powder co-management committee. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE and L, votes against the NAP and the abstention from the CH.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 258 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the prohibition on the marketing of burning wood resulting from forest fires. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes in favour of the CH.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 496 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the opening of service posts, with a profile similar to that of the shops of the citizen, in cities of higher emigration density. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 497 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Declaration of rejection of the Syrian Government and relocation of the Syrian conflict on the international agenda. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u357	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u358	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u359	It is to inform the Bureau that I shall make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u360	We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 381 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government create and invest in alternative measures for the detention of immigrants under the law of foreigners. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 568 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the budget of the Lusa agency as a guarantee of the wage increase of its workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolution No 10 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government put an end to the discrimination of trans people in cancer screenings for breast, colorectal and cervix cancer of the uterus. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]] We moved on to additional script II. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two requests, submitted by the PSD, to vote. If there is no drawback for any parliamentary group, we can vote for them together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, then we will vote on the two requests submitted by the PSD. The first shall be for the plenary of the vote in respect of the speciality of proposals for amendments to Articles 6. o, 7. o and 11. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the scheme of a set of tax benefits. The second is the vote by the plenary on the speciality of proposals for amendments to Articles 8. o, 9. the addition and addition of Articles 10. o -A is 10. o-B of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the scheme for start-ups and scales, amends the scheme for taxation of options plans for start-ups workers and innovation companies and strengthens the system of tax incentives in research and business development. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, as is customary in these circumstances, the parliamentary groups wishing to intervene on the proposed amendments, in the case of Bill No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the arrangements of a set of tax benefits, have up to two minutes to do so. The Bureau records a number of entries. I give the floor to Mr Carlos Brás of the Socialist Party, and I strongly ask that no one exceed two minutes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u361	Mr President, if I may, I think you should be the author of the request to speak first.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u362	No objection, sir. And that makes sense. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Bill No 35 / XV / 1. a, of the Government, which we are going to vote partly in the specialty and in a global final vote, entered this House with the mark of lack of transparency. No studies, no documents, no opinions, no consultations. Nothing! Worse than that, without even realizing by your text why what was proposed to us. This, unfortunately, has not changed in the process of specialty. Therefore, the PSD presented its proposals to correct this same proposal in what was still possible to correct. But the Socialist Party did not really have an interest in deepening this debate, but only in achieving the main objective that it chaired in presenting this bill. That is, what is the purpose of this bill? Is it correcting tax benefits? No, no, no. It's increasing tax revenue. And you did it through either the revocation of existing tax benefits—which did not explain why— either by not repealing tax benefits, also without explaining why. However, because it was justified, from our point of view, for reasons of socio-economic relevance, or because they still chaired the reasons for creating these tax benefits, the PSD presented a number of proposals for amendments to the Government's bill, including those which are now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's counsel. What we ask of this House and what we ask of the parliamentary majority in particular to be led by the Socialist Party is that, in the name of fiscal justice, and not yet on behalf of tax revenue, it approves the proposals we now advocate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u364	Mr Carlos Brás, from the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tax benefits are special tax instruments consisting of tax reliefs, exemptions, tax reductions, deductions and even tax credits, and must, by their very nature, be exceptional and transitional and therefore conjunctural, and must correspond to an interest for the community superior to the interest of taxation. In Portugal, they are dispersed by several legal diplomas and in fact lack a reorganization and systematisation. Otherwise, we continue the trend of its multiplication, at some point we run the risk that they will remain unintelligible in their whole. In view of the importance of this public policy instrument and the trend in dispersion and multiplication, the 21st Government considered it necessary to form a working group for the study of tax benefits. The working group existed, Mr. This unprecedented initiative has produced a deep and unprecedented analysis and, as expected, some tax benefits are inadequate or unnecessary in relation to the initial objectives, by the reduced number of beneficiaries or even by the exhaustion or completion of the end that determined their creation. On the other hand, and in view of the environmental objectives and targets with which Portugal is committed, it is necessary to discourage critical behaviors for the environment, opting for green taxation. This is a bill that aims to contribute to consistency and equity in tax benefits, taking into account these environmental goals. In recent days there has been a misinformation campaign according to which the coloured and marked diesel, commonly known as green gas oil or agricultural gas oil, would no longer appear on the intermediate list of VAT (tax on added value) and would be subject to the normal rate of 23 %, and that the reduced rate of ISP (tax on oil and energy products) would also be eliminated in the coloured and marked diesel. This does not, in fact, correspond to reality, and Portugal is even the only country in the European Union with a reduced rate of VAT for agricultural gas oil, which is maintained and which corresponds to an unequivocal demonstration of the Government's commitment and commitment to the implementation of all measures that mitigate the effect of the crises affecting the national agricultural sector. In addition, and now responding to the speech of the PSD Member, in the specialty, several amendments have been received...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u366	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u367	...and the process unfolded with all normality. What I think is that we should not enter a demagogic and populist path, like the far-right parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u368	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor to speak on behalf of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at a time when the country is still under strong inflationary pressure, with our farmers and fishermen suffocating with the increase in prices and raw materials, how is it that a government that has enjoyed a budget surplus of EUR 3, EUR 5 billion now wants to raise taxes? It is totally against the aggravating of taxes in a budgetary surplus situation. How is it possible for a Government to apply a measure of EUR 140 million to support agricultural production and at the same time to increase taxes on fuels, which fall into products used by that same agricultural production? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is authentically « enjoying with whom you work». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u370	But, in the case of this proposal, there is also a problem of aggravating the ISV (vehicle tax) of motor vehicles. The Government has decided to increase this tax without even realizing the impact this measure will have on the national economy. It is not only the trade and rent of motorhomes that are damaged by this measure, it is all the national trade that lives at the expense of this type of tourism and which is cross-border throughout the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u371	A completely unnecessary measure and its impact is residual in terms of tax revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u373	Finally, I appeal to the Members. Members of the Government, instead of presenting measures of circumstance that will only bring more poverty to our country, are concerned, first, with reducing the high tax and tax burden on Portuguese families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u374	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u375	Portugal has the percentages of taxes and social contributions on the highest labour costs of the European Union. It was about these matters that the Government should take up, implementing structural reforms to increase competitiveness, productivity and wages, which were never priority for socialist governance policies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u376	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, from the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD advocates its proposals for amendments to Articles 6. a is 7. o Law No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which relate exactly to the coloured and marked gas oil and even to the heating gas oil, and clarified that there was no withdrawal in the case of VAT from the intermediate step, in the case of the ISP, of the reduced step of these taxes. I made it clear, Mr Brás ; it is not clear. You are here to say that there is no intention to raise taxes, but it is not clear in the drafting of the bill that we have followed the PSD proposal, which made this clear. In fact, in this current situation, with the highest inflation of the last 30 years and, above all, in energy matters, being taxed on alternative sources of energy, which both affect families, businesses and, above all, the agricultural sector, would be extremely insensitive. But to the PSD proposals, as in fact to the proposals of all parties, the PS made mucosal ears and voted against. He voted against all, except those who came from the Socialist Party itself. And in this « I want, I can and I command » it did worse because in Article 10. the proposed law requires a legislative authorization to revoke all tax benefits that have already expired. All right, simplify, take the trail, the remnant that is in the tax benefits. All right. Only if the IL proposes that these revocations be informed by the Ministry of Finance to Parliament. And what does the PS say? No, don't report anything. Revoke whatever you want and you have nothing to report. Therefore, in the "I want, I can and I command" of the PS, the PS now decides that it does not want to inform the Assembly of the Republic about what it repeals and does not revoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u378	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u379	I just have one thing to say: no wonder the Portuguese are getting more and more sick of the PS. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u380	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u381	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The CFP voted against this proposal for government law, because it considers that the government, instead of attacking the main tax benefits — as is the case with non-standard residents, the various loopholes that exist in the IRC (tax on the income of the public), so that many companies escape taxes through a set of tax benefits that have, and even the tax benefits associated with the financial sector — sought, in this bill, essentially, to exacerbate the ISV on motor cars, which does not seem to us to be the high priority of tax policy in Portugal, and to increase taxes on heating diesel and colored and marked oil. He said well and that is what the Government's bill does. We will vote in favour of the PSD proposals that delete these articles, because we are voting against the bill that exacerbates these taxes. Regarding motorhomes, we would like to say that it is important to consider that much of the value of a motorhome is not associated with the vehicle itself, but with the set of equipment that are associated with its use.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u382	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u383	And, therefore, it would make sense for another vehicle tax table to adjust this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u384	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u385	It is that the value of a motor vehicle is not only that of the vehicle; most of it is not even that of the vehicle. So we do not find this worsening which is proposed here to make sense. We would also like to point out that the PS took advantage of the specialty process, with the proposals it presented and approved, in order to extend the tax benefits to large companies, in particular by removing some of the limits for the deduction of tax benefits within IRC. Therefore, the PS, in this specialty, has further aggravated the enormous inequality of tax policy, benefiting the large economic groups and harming those who take most of the fiscal effort, which are those who live from their work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u386	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN. You have one minute for your speech, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u387	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The tax benefits must have their fair proportionality and reason to be, in particular clearly identify objectives with which they are established. However, there is a package of 120 tax benefits for which the Working Group for the Tax Benefits Study has already indicated that it could not identify an extrafiscal objective for its maintenance. The NAP presented a proposal for an amendment to this proposal for a government law, which specifically aimed at eliminating one of these benefits. Article 3 ( 4 ). that of the IRS Code, for the most part when it conflicts with the principles of taxonomy, by virtue of European regulations and directives. And it also runs counter to the Roadmap agreement for Carbonic Neutrality. And we cannot at one time say that we are very friends with the fight against climate change and, on the other, being here contributing to the allocation of tax benefits to highly polluting activities and that they contribute more — in particular with 8% of the total — to carbon emissions. in this sense, we will not follow this proposal, precisely by contradicting its principles, particularly in the field of combating the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u388	Heat gas!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u389	We shall then proceed to the vote. The possible consensus allows us to individualise the first amendment and to vote together the other two. We therefore vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PSD which deletes Article 6. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE and the NAP and the L.]] We are now voting together on the amendments tabled by the PSD to delete Article 7. that of the final and replacement text of Article 11 ( d ). that of the same text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL and the PCP and abstentions to the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The proposed replacement was as follows: « Article 11. o [... ] [... ] : ( a ) [... ] ; ( b ) [... ] ; ( c ) [... ] ; (d) Article 89 ( 1 )(j ). (e) [...]. Do not keep on seeking. ” We return to the main script to vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 35 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the scheme of a set of tax benefits. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD, CH, CCP, BE and L and abstentions by the IL and the NAP.]] We are now going to additional script III, since the request for lawyers has already been approved. They tell me that the parliamentary groups want to intervene in the pre-voting period. Thus, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor for the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u390	Mr. President and Mr. Members: At the end of the summer of last year, we began to discuss here in Parliament, on the initiative of the PSD, the proposals on SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives for Research and Enterprise Development ). What did the PS do? He led them. Meanwhile, in January, we resubmitted new proposals. What did the PS do? He led them. And in the meantime, the Government, which did not understand between the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance, was able there to present to Parliament a proposal aimed at both startups and scales, or an amendment to SIFIDE. SIFIDE problem: it does not solve abuses in the case of indirect investments. He does not want the PS either, because it has led to the PSD proposals, to evaluate what we do with EUR 400 or 500 million of tax expenditure. So it does not completely solve the problem of abuse, it tries to take a few steps, but it does not get there, and on the other hand, it does not want to know where 400 or 500 million euros of tax expenditure are going. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u391	This is one of the problems. The other problem — and I must also say that it is a good idea to consider this with the PSD proposals — is also serious because what PS does is to completely abandon startups and scales in Portugal. They exclude, on the one hand, participants holding up to 50 % of shares in this type of enterprise, which was the PSD proposal, and exclude the founders from the stock options regime. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if we want an innovative, enterprising economy, if we want to bring out the best, but also to take the best from the inside, we have to give a signal to this sector, to this ecosystem. And what the government does, and what the PS supports, is precisely to give the opposite signal, is to keep all these people away. Therefore, the appeal I make to the PS — which today has a last chance — is to amend the hand and not remove and exclude the ecosystem from startups and scales. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u392	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative we are discussing today is related to startups, scaleups and also to SIFIDE. With regard to SIFIDE, the PSD proposals concern only one question: prejudice against this instrument; the PSD has always been defending that it ends. This is also at stake in these proposals. With regard to scaleups and startups, this legislation allows these important companies to be trained for the economy. We remember that they account for more than 1 % of GDP ( Gross domestic product ). We recall that, for example, 50 % of exports are the responsibility of small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ). And in relation to the SIFIDE system, and what is at stake here is the prejudice of the PSD, we remember that it allows an increase of up to € 1, 8 per euro invested. We also recall that only in 2021, according to existing data, it represented more than 1, 6 billion euros of earnings. Therefore, what is at issue here is a bias of the PSD in relation to SIFIDE.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u394	That's propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u395	With regard to the proposal, the truth is one: the proposals that have been improved by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group in the field of expertise respond to the report of the IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u396	They've dropped everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u397	... respond to some abuses that must be combated and improve transparency. I recall, for example, that it is clearly not a financial instrument, does not allow the cascade effect, does not allow direct investment or does not allow gains that would become abusive by SIFIDE. Thus, the proposal is in the right way to allow growth and business development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u398	Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, from IL, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u399	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Articles avoked by the PSD in respect of the Proposal for a Law No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) have two main themes. The first of these refers to action options. We have generally voted alongside the PSD for the amendments that have been proposed today, particularly with regard to ending the time of taxation being the one in which someone no longer lives, which has a lot of xenophobia and is, above all, totally inapplicable — no one will be able to take account of this greater value. But, finally, the PS will know why he insists on this. And we also voted alongside the PSD when we wanted to extend the action options regime, I already said it here, both to the founders and to the holders of up to 50 % capital. I tell you, Mr, it was good that you also voted in favour of our proposal, which before you wanted the same thing. With regard to the issue of SIFIDE funds, coincidence has not yet been the same, but we have followed an important proposal, which was also a lawyer, to limit the detention of SIFIDE funds, by a single investor, to 49 %. In fact, this prevented what many people complain about, which is the abuse, by unipersonal funds, of the SIFIDE funds, but the PS, within its — I will repeat the expression— « I want, can and command! », voted against this proposal, go there to know why. Therefore, the PS, which has the mouth full of business innovation and wants to encourage economic growth from small businesses and startups, does not provide ANI ( National Innovation Agency ) or AT with any type of resources to be able to validate and process applications under SIFIDE and, now, still resolves to asphyxiate the rest with rules or illogical, or inapplicable. The PS has no idea how to make the country innovate and therefore, as I said before, it does not admire that Portuguese are getting more and more sick of the PS. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u400	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, the CFP has put forward a proposal for the revocation of SIFIDE, with the aim of transferring the associated tax expenditure — over EUR 400 million per year — for a genuine research and development programme involving the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation), the national scientific and technological system and businesses, prioritising the productive sectors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We want public resources to be used for a genuine national strategy for research and development, within the framework of an industrial policy that promotes greater technological integration, increasing value creation and valuing work — essential factors for re-emerging our productive sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u403	Having not approved the proposal of the CFP, in the discussion of this bill, the CFP is against, for example, the legal definition of startups and scalings, considering that the door to corporate discrimination in access to support should not be opened simply because they are more or less recent. Mr Hugo Costa, what he did here was to change the ideas a little bit, since he said that more than 50 % of exports are from SMEs. I ask you what this has to do with startups. It has nothing to do with it and you confuse the two concepts. There are many micro, small and medium-sized companies that have 10, 20 and 30 years of existence and that make more innovation than startups! [[PCP applause.]] Therefore, there cannot be a policy of discrimination of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises because they are not startups or scaleups.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u404	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u405	As regards amendments to SIFIDE, we believe that they are below the minimum, that it would be the exclusion of investment funds, taking into account the negative role they have played in the national economy. The domain of these investment funds ends up business strategies in quick profit logics and dividend distributions, not in medium- to long-term and investment logics. In spite of this consideration, we have abstained from voting on all the amendments that end the loopholes that allow these funds to double count the tax benefit, and we will also abstain from voting on the only proposal from the PSD that seems to us to go this way. However, with regard to the other proposed amendments by the PSD, we will reject the vast majority, because they basically want to strengthen the tax benefits for these funds, which, in our view, have a negative role in the national economy. We wanted to point out that what results from this specialty process is, in fact, the genuine convergence between the Socialist Party, the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative in the idea that this logic should continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u406	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u407	I will finish, Mr. President. I said that there is a convergence in the idea that this logic of tax benefits should continue for investment funds rather than tax relief for workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u408	We shall now proceed to the voting on the various proposals for amendments to the final text on the Proposal for a Law No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the scheme for startups and scales, amends the scheme for taxation of options plans for startup workers and innovation companies and strengthens the system of tax incentives for research and business development. It was possible to obtain small aggregates and therefore consensus between parliamentary groups determines that we can begin by voting together on the first four proposed amendments to the PSD, which are amended by paragraph 1, replacing paragraph 4, amending paragraph 7 ( a ) and deleting Article 43 ( 7 ( b ). the C of the Statute for Tax Benefits, as set out in Article 8. that of the final text. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and abstention from the NAP.]] There were the following: « Article 43. o-C 1 - The gains provided for in Article 2 ( 2 ) ( b ) ( 7 ). that of the IRS Code shall only be taxed under this scheme and considered to be 50 % of its value when the plan is allocated by an employer defined in accordance with Article 2 ( 10 ). the, of the IRS Code which, in the year prior to the granting of the plan, is recognised as a start-up under the existing legal regime. 2 - [... ] 3 - [... ] 4 - Taxation in accordance with this Article depends on the maintenance of the underlying rights to the securities generating the winnings or equivalent rights, even if of an ideal nature, for a minimum period of two years being the gains taxed at the time of disposal of the securities or equivalent rights, being determined by the positive difference between the value of realization and the price of exercise of the option or right, plus what has been paid for the acquisition of that option or right. 5 - [... ] 6 - [... ] 7 - [...] : (a) taxable persons holding directly or indirectly a share equal to or greater than 20 % of the share capital or voting rights of the assigning entity of the plan. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u409	We shall then, together with the speciality, vote on the proposed amendments to the PSD for the addition of Article 43 ( 9 ) to Article 43 ( 9 ). the C of the Statute for Tax Benefits, as set out in Article 8. that of the final text and amending Article 38 ( a) and ( b ) ( 1 ). that of the Fiscal Code of Investment. [[Votes were put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH, and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] There were the following: « Article 43. o-C 9 - For the purposes of this scheme, it is considered that the time for approval of the plan is the time when it is made available to the worker or the time when the worker adheres to the plan, irrespective of when, the worker is not fully invested in the rights inherent to those values or rights, even if of an ideal nature, in particular those of disposition or payment. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Article 38. o 1 - [...] : (a) base rate - 40 % of expenditure incurred during that period; ( b) incremental rate - 42, 5 % of the increase in expenditure incurred during that period in relation to the simple arithmetic average of the preceding two years up to the limit of ( euro ) 1 500 000, 00. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u410	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD amending Article 38 ( a ). that of the Fiscal Code for Investment, as set out in Article 9. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: « Article 38. o 7 - [...] : ( a) the units of participation in the investment funds referred to in Article 37 ( f ). the amount that has been deducted from the collection, in the proportion corresponding to the missing period, shall be added to the IRC of the alienation period before the expiry of the seven-year period, plus the corresponding compensatory interest. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u411	We can now vote together on the proposed amendments to the elimination PSD in Article 38 ( b) and ( c ). that of the Fiscal Code for Investment, as set out in Article 9. that of the final text. [[Votes were put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH, and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] We turn to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD to add Article 38 ( d) to Article 38 ( 7 ). that of the Fiscal Code for Investment, as set out in Article 9. that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and L, votes in favour of the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] It was as follows: « Article 38. o 7 - [...] : (d) - The maximum deduction allocated to contributions to investment funds made by a single investor subject to Article 37 ( 10 ). the, may not exceed an amount corresponding to a representative contribution of 49, 99 % of the capital of the fund as at 31 December of the relevant taxation period. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u412	The special vote is followed by the proposal for an amendment to the PSD replacing Article 38 ( 10 ). that of the Fiscal Code for Investment, as set out in Article 9. that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: « Article 38. o 10 - In the case of companies primarily engaged in research and development financed by investment funds which have received contributions qualifying as relevant applications in accordance with Article 37 ( f ) ( 1 ). the deduction referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article corresponds to the unfunded value of the relevant applications in the field of research and development activities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u413	We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD for the addition of Article 38 ( 13 ). that of the Fiscal Code for Investment, as set out in Article 9. that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS and the CH and IL and the NAP.]] It was as follows: « Article 38. o 13 - For the purposes of paragraph 10 it is considered unfunded value of relevant applications in the field of research and development activities resulting from the multiplication of the total value of relevant applications made by a fraction that has by numerator the total amount of relevant applications carried out in the taxation period, deducted from the sum of values reported in accordance with paragraph 11 and by denominator the total amount of relevant applications carried out in the period. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u414	We have followed the special vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD to add Article 40 ( 14 ). that of the Fiscal Code of Investment. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: « Article 40. o 14 - Checking Article 38 ( 7 ( a ). the, the management companies are obliged to communicate within 30 days to the companies benefiting from equity and quasi-capital investments the information necessary so that they can adjust the unfunded value of relevant applications determined in accordance with the previous paragraph. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u415	We shall then vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD to add Article 40 ( 15 ). that of the Fiscal Code of Investment. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] It was as follows: « Article 40. o 15 - The value corresponding to the adjustment of the unfunded value of relevant applications provided for in the previous paragraph is deducted from the declaration referred to in Article 120. that of the IRC Code relating to the taxation period in which the communication provided for in the previous paragraph is verified. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u416	We are now voting on the proposal for an amendment to the PSD to add Article 40 ( 16 ). that of the Fiscal Code of Investment. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CH and IL and with abstentions from the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: « Article 40. o 16 - Management companies benefiting from SIFIDE II shall be obliged to communicate until 31 January the information necessary for the determination by each investor of the limit provided for in Article 38 ( 7 ( d ). o. Do not keep on seeking. ” The special vote is followed by the proposal for an amendment to the PSD for the addition of Article 40 ( 17 ). that of the Fiscal Code of Investment. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CH, IL and L and abstentions from the CFP, BE and PAN.]] It was as follows: « Article 40. o 17 - The annual reports of the investment funds referred to in paragraph 12 shall be made publicly and in an organized manner by the National Innovation Agency, S.A. on your website. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u417	We shall now proceed to the special vote on the PSD proposal for an addition to Article 10. o -A to the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the PS and CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] It was as follows: « Article 10. o -The Supply of ANI Human Resource Insufficiency in SIFIDE Monitoring With a view to the effective functioning and monitoring of the SIFIDE incentive scheme by ANI, the Government, together with that entity, shall take the necessary steps to supply the lack of human resources. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u418	We also vote on the PSD proposal for an addendum to Article 10. o-B to final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the PS and CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] It was as follows: « Article 10. o-B Commission for the evaluation of SIFIDE II 1 - Within 45 days, the Government shall promote the establishment of a multidisciplinary committee of experts with a view to producing a report on the evaluation of the effectiveness of SIFIDE II, in particular with regard to the benefit attributed to the relevant applications provided for in Article 37 ( f ). o; 2 - The report referred to in paragraph 1 shall also be forwarded to the Assembly of the Republic by 30 June 2024. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u419	We then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 56 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the scheme for startups and scales, amends the scheme for taxation of options plans for startup workers and innovation companies and strengthens the system of tax incentives for research and business development. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the BE and the L, and abstentions to the CH and the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion on draft resolution No 515 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive extension of the free of charge of day care centres and friends of the Institute for Social Security, IP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We conclude with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolution No 511 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government classify the Generation Park as equipment of public interest. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CH.]] Let us now proceed to the reading of the dossier, for which I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u420	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolution Nos 584 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 585 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u421	We are thus at the end of our agenda. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 5 April.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u422	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u423	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u424	Mr President, it was only to say that I forgot to state that I will make a statement of vote on draft resolution No 442 / XV / 1. a ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2023-03-31.u425	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The agenda for the next sitting, which is Wednesday, includes at the first point a debate on the current issue required by the CH on immigration and security policy. The second point follows the discussion of the Bill No 64 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2021 / 514 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. In the third point, the Resolution Projects Nos 532 / XV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( IL) — Return to the PPP management model in the hospitals of Braga, Loures and Vila Franca de Xira, and 533 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Model for the management of hospitals of the National Health Service, and Bill No. 224 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Flexibility of the legal regime of public-private partnerships in the field of health. of the fourth point is the debate of draft resolution No 262 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By strengthening the network of equipment and services to support the elderly and valuing the associations of pensioners, pensioners and elderly, and the Bill No. 676 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates the Charter of Senior Citizens' Rights. of the fifth point is the assessment of the Drafts of Law No 561 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Integrates the procedural recovery supplement into the maturity of judicial officers ( amendment to Decree-Law No 485 / 99 of 10 November, which establishes compensation measures for the recovery of procedural delays ), 646 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integration of the procedural recovery supplement into the maturity of judicial officials ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 485 / 99 of 10 November ), — 668 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 485 / 99 of 10 November, which establishes compensation measures for the recovery of procedural delays, raising to 14 months per year the benefits of the procedural recovery supplement of the judicial officers, 669 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 4 / 2017 of 6 January integrating the judicial officers into the differentiated retirement scheme provided for in this legal diploma, 672 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures payment of the supplement to compensate for the work of recovery of procedural delays, and 679 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Guarantee, as part of the review of the Staff Regulations of Justice Officers, the review of careers, wage conditions and a special retirement scheme and establishes compensation measures for the recovery of proceedings, and of Resolution Projects Nos 540 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the review of the Staff Regulations of Justice Officers and undertake urgent recruitment of judicial officials and 552 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of urgent measures concerning judicial officials. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 48 minutes.]]
