ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Elżbieta Zielińska, Wojciech King, Krzysztof Kubow and Daniel Milewski. In the first part of the session, the Secretaries will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Zielińska and Daniel Milewski. I consider the minutes of the 77th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on: - a parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and certain other laws, - the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and certain other laws, - a senate bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the law on road traffic, - a government bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and certain other laws. This is print number 3279. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2019. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions: - information on: - participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2018, - significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017, - on the committee's report on draft laws on combatants. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on legislative actions undertaken in 2016 and 2018 leading to the sealing of the tax system and the guarantee of budgetary revenues allowing the implementation of numerous social programmes, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Legal notice - hour. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 15, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Polish herbalization - hour 11, - Parliamentary Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Team - h.m. 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 17, - Parliamentary Group for Rural and Urban Development - h.m. 6:30. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u3	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finances on the governmental draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund (prints no. 3200 and 3228). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u4	Dear Marshal! High Seym! February 11th this year The Marshal of the Sejm sent a government bill to his first reading... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u5	Member, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask those who are talking to me to move the talks to the colloquials and allow us to conduct our deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, please move the conversations to the colloquials. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u6	February 11th this year Marshal of the Sejm sent to the first reading a draft law on supporting scientific activity from the Polish Science Fund, contained in print no. 3200. The submission concerns the creation of a new financing mechanism for research and development and their commercialisation, in the form of the Polish Science Fund, co-financed among others. from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Joint Committees: Committee on Education, Science and Youth and Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 19 February this year. they did their first reading and examined the bill. The Commission welcomed the draft submitted and the report is contained in print No 3228. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The joint committees bring to the High Sejm about the adoption of a government bill on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u7	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, print no. 3200. In line with the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2017, the development of science is an important element contributing to an increase in the level of competitiveness of national actors. This strategy includes the internationalisation and opening of Polish universities to innovation and ensuring inter alia. a legal environment conducive to innovation and competitiveness of research results by universities and research entities. Scientific activities supported by the Polish Science Fund should focus not only on research and development, but also on commercialisation of their results in the form of innovative products which will be able to compete on the Polish and global market. The solutions adopted in the draft law implement the strategy's objectives both in terms of increasing funding for scientific activities and in terms of supporting the emergence and development of innovative ways of organising R &amp; D activities. One of the flagship projects mentioned in the strategy are the Biotechnology Development Centre and Polish medical devices. The resources of the fund will first be allocated to the broad-based biotechnology area. The National Science Centre provides financial support for projects only in the field of basic research, and the National Research and Development Centre finances almost exclusively industrial research and development. The analysis of the existing legal situation shows that there is no way to implement the solution provided for in the proposed law based on available legal tools and institutions creating a higher education and science system. The introduction of the proposed solutions in this project is linked to the need to create a new financing and commercialisation mechanism for research and development. An important feature of the proposed solution will be the provision of a stable financing system, which will be available in the long term for 5 and 10 years. The draft law aims to create the basis and mechanism for financing scientific activities carried out in a revised form so-called. a virtual research institute, in short WIB, which will be a form of organisation of selected, internationally competitive research teams carrying out scientific activities with high potential for socio-economic applications. WIB will not have legal personality, nor will it be an employer for researchers forming part of the research team. WIB funding fund will be established in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It will be separate from the state budget and will be able to finance these objectives over the long term. The main source of funding for the Fund is expected to be the amount of PLN 500 million that it will receive as a result of the reduction in the statutory fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The aim of the Fund is to finance scientific activities, which are particularly important for the implementation of the country's development strategy. The draft law introduces the design and financing of WIB's scientific activities based on contracts between the parties involved. The draft law sets the maximum amount of funding to finance research teams carrying out research activities under the WIB. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister shall decide how the funds are to be spent. The bill does not require the presentation to the competent authorities...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u9	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u10	...and the institutions of the European Union. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I make four amendments to this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome children and young people from the Youth Sociotherapy Centre of Gniezno sitting at the gallery. [[Applause]] We're very pleased that you're in the Seym. Now, please take the floor of Mr Adam Korol, PO-KO. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Coalition I am pleased to present an opinion on the government draft law on the creation of the Polish Science Fund. Like most draft laws proposed by Law and Justice, the draft law on the Polish Science Fund is an underdeveloped document. It concerns the promotion of commercialisation of research results through the creation of a new research funding mechanism - the Polish Science Fund in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego through the innovative formula of virtual research institutes in Poland. The only plus of this idea is to increase the expenditure on scientific activities, which will translate into modernising entrepreneurship. However, the proposed solutions raise so important doubts that even the Sejm Analysis Office suggests that the project should be discussed in depth. It may be more effective to modify the activities of existing entities such as the National Centre for Research and Development or the National Science Centre. Creating new solutions from scratch is less rational than exploiting existing potential. The project aims to centralise decision-making, i.e. the area of action and the amount of funding to be decided by policies, specifically - the Minister for Science and Higher Education, without trying to consult the scientific community or entrepreneurs. What, then, will be the basis for decisions on what and to what extent the funds will be granted? Only on the basis of the Minister's will. Moreover, for incomprehensible reasons, the project places the Polish Centre for Technology Development in a privileged position, which can only be appointed by the Minister to manage the project without competition. Other centres must apply for these functions in the tender contest mode. The question of funding the fund. For this purpose 500 million PLN is to be allocated once from the statutory fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This amount is intended to last for 10 years, which means little financial capacity of the fund compared to e.g. the budget of the National Centre for Research and Development, which this year will receive a grant of PLN 1300 million. So why create a fund that will not have financial opportunities in practice? Here's another thing. The project does not define the terms and conditions of cooperation with entrepreneurs, although it stresses the need to commercialise research results. The project lacks any concrete, even specific forms of financial support for companies willing to implement the proposed solutions. In the end, the project lacks decisions on intellectual property or on the principles of the use of research infrastructures of research institutes. In conclusion, the bill in its current form is likely to become a propaganda tool of Minister Gowin in the election campaign. It is therefore a sanctioned distribution of PLN 500 million without any inspection and consultation of experts. In view of the substantive shortcomings presented in the project, we will request that it be rejected in the proposed form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u13	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, print no. 3200. The justification already put forward by your Law and Justice Member should be a sufficient argument to reject this bill. Nevertheless, I will present a few reflections on this subject in order to justify such a position. First, the title of this law is already false: about supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. There is nothing here or there is little about supporting Polish science, but it is about redistribution of funds allocated to it by a body dependent on the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. If the government really wanted to care about Polish science, it would apply a simple and much less expensive solution. It would simply allocate 500 million to existing entities, whether the NCN or the National Centre for Research and Development, possibly also already introduced the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. However, such a solution would reduce the decision-making and distribution possibilities resulting from the management of these measures. It would also be acceptable to argue for such an institution if the drafters of the law pointed out that the current channels for the transfer of funds to science produce such pathologies, such as the one revealed in the last days, when it turned out that the relative of the lady, who thought it was 6,000. zł works only idiots or thieves, is involved in extortion of several million PLN from NCBR. But the creators of this project, this legislation, do not say anything about such a solution, because they know that under their rule there may be no crime, but certainly there is scientific pathology when funds are granted for research supposedly from history, whose workshop is based on dreams as a source of facts, which is used by Barbara Engelking in her publications of slanderous Poles. The draft law, both substantively and legally, was massacred by the authors of the opinion from the Office of Sejm Analysis and there is nothing to offend them for this opinion. It is not only true, but it should also be a source of reflection on not only improving the project but even rejecting it. The draft law must be accused of a clear centralisation, because the area of scientific activity, the amount of funds, the period of their spending or the choice of the managing body will be decided by the Minister responsible for higher education and science. Where's the famous deregulation and decentralisation? Another charge that needs to be raised is that there is no solution on issues such as: the role of parent institutions of entities forming part of a virtual research institute. How will their research infrastructure be used? The project also ignores intellectual and industrial property issues. In theory, it could be assumed that these cases can be settled on the basis of existing legislation. Unfortunately, as the Higher Education Act shows, called 2.0 - and this is indeed a good name - this cannot be accepted. By way of proof, I will refer to the examination of the final work of postgraduate studies, which is very important from the point of view of the competences and powers acquired by their graduates. It turns out that Law 2.0 does not impose such an obligation on the university. This was the answer I received from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education when it turned out that postgraduate work could not be checked directly within the framework of a single anti-plagiarism system. The Ministry stated that the newly adopted law on higher education and the law on copyright should be amended. Of course, responsible universities must find a solution in this case, and they do it: either they buy an additional anti-plagiarism program or they celebrate the system as part of a single anti-plagiarism system. I will add, by the way, on the basis of this legislation, but also other legislation in this area, that it is evident proof for the Ministry of Poland, in which every minister wants to have some piece of cake to split to make himself feel important. This law also proves the thesis that in the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki another group creates a backup for a soft landing after a possible electoral failure. However, these countess may turn out to be flaming, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] possible Polish rulers, who will win the election, can...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u16	Can I finish with the conclusion? Here's the conclusion. Kukiz.15 requests that this law be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u17	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u18	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the governmental draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, prints no. 3200 and 3228. Ladies and gentlemen, prepared by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the project provides that the fund is to be set up in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and will be financed by PLN 500 million by reducing the BGK statutory fund. The fund is to finance an innovative formula for national cooperation: a virtual research institute. Virtual - this word on this project can be a key word. The question remains: Why create an institution that duplicates the powers of existing institutions? Every scientist in Poland knows that we have a National Science Centre or, for example, a National Research and Development Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't the new creation supposed to lead to the destruction of the institutions that I have already mentioned? Of course, there will be an argument that the Ministry of Science wants to build a flexible way of funding research. Question: "Isn't there a second bottom here?" Maybe it's about setting up another institution so that you can, colloquially speaking, fill it with your own - your own. Unfortunately, this thought comes to mind if we look at how over the past 3 years the PiS and appetizers have taken into Jasyr all the institutions that could cast already famous Pisiewicz or Misiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, you know each other as well as anyone else. But let's leave this to the point, because here is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, and there are many substantive doubts, starting with the issue of the ubiquitous centralization of institutions, through the lack of clear division of competences, the loss of subjectivity and the lack of clear rules of consistency in the event that the initiative does not produce certain results - according to the principle of the PIS... Ladies and gentlemen, is this how you want to build the future of Polish science? Sharing entities? Because according to the project, some institutions that are designed to create a new creation are privileged, others are not, and without clear reasons. Finally, the question of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Well, his role is really brought down to the role of PiS's favorite pet, the domestic cow. The voice bank doesn't exist. He's got the funds he's got to give, and that's it. Of course, the diagnosis contained in the bill is correct, the goal is noble, but with the implementation as usual worse. Where would it have to start? Not since the recommendation of the Sejm Analysis Office. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of the solutions proposed raises so much doubts that the project should be discussed in depth with all stakeholders as far as possible. The consultation process should certainly involve the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego more, as in its case the consequences of the proposed provisions may go further than the scope of the project in question. The opinion, ladies and gentlemen, which I just said, is a quote from the recommendations made by the Sejm's experts in the case of the project. I leave this to the applicants to reflect quickly and encourage them to take recommended action. As my previous speakers recommended, I am willing to support the motion to reject this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u19	Thank you. I would like the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Practically everything has been said and we can, we are willing to say, like the previous clubs, that we are against this project. This project doesn't actually have much justification. I know he's a pretty name, because this title, the law on supporting science, sounds proud. But, in reality, you are creating another fund -- you have a tendency at all to create new institutions that duplicate existing institutions -- so that arbitraryly the Minister of Science and Higher Education can give away money. It would still be a lot of money, but it is not a lot of money, because, in reality, if we look at the percentage of funds spent on research, on development, which are also significant too small, because I will remind you that Mateusz Morawiecki promised us, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, then not as Prime Minister, promised about 2%. GDP, which is about 1% GDP, it is clear that you do not significantly increase resources for science and development, while you are creating a new institution that will duplicate tasks, e.g. the existing National Centre for Research and Development. At the same time, the central character of this institution, the authoritarian decision by the Minister of Science and the question that, while all the NCBR grants are very carefully reviewed, here we have a situation in which there is no certainty as to whether this money will be awarded with equal care, it is necessary to have doubts. about the pure intentions of creating this fund. Let us also note that in the education committee we asked that there should also be a minister or someone from the Ministry of Finance to answer clearly the allegations, doubts of the Sejm Analysis Office regarding the fact that the allocation of funds, 500 million from BGK's statutory fund, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, could lead to the inclusion of all BGK's finances in the public finance sector - which creates risks from the point of view of assessing the macroeconomic situation of Poland's budget, Polish debts, etc. In general, the project is underdeveloped, we do not see the point of creating such a fund, and we have not yet been able to respond at any time to the doubts about financing in the form of these 500 million from the statutory fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which should serve other purposes. If I were to tell you why this fund is being created right now, I would say that I have the impression that it is only to give more power and at the same time mark actions in an area where you are simply blowing up. We will be in favour of rejecting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u21	Now I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki talks about the development of the Polish economy and innovative solutions dedicated to it. Polish science, which has been particularly neglected over the years, may be the driving force behind Poland's development. In Poland there was a lack of a system that would commercialise innovative ideas and support the development of research. I have no doubt that the way scientists have been supported so far has been insufficient. The problem was also the lack of a long-term solution on the financing of research and the implementation of its results. It should be stressed that the regulations contained in the draft law perfectly fit into the draft of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, a strategy for responsible development. It covers a number of areas where R &amp; D is an important element in increasing the level of competitiveness of national actors. The solutions adopted in the draft law implement the objectives of the strategy, increasing the financial expenditure allocated to scientific activities, as well as supporting the development and development of innovative research solutions. The draft law aims to create the basis and mechanism for financing scientific activities carried out in an innovative formula - a virtual research institute. The draft law clearly indicates the source of funding to be included in BGK's statutory fund. The virtual research institute will also allow faster knowledge transfer between, among others. small and medium-sized enterprises and research teams. The regulations in question also specify precisely all the mandatory elements of the contracts concluded under the project. New solutions are being introduced for the funding and commercialisation of research and development. I believe that thanks to the proposed law, Polish science will be able to compete with foreign research centres. To date, there has been a lack of a stable financing system in this area that would allow long-term planning, e.g. in biotechnology or medicine. After all, such solutions are possible thanks to the current government. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u23	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my honor to present the position of the Members' Circle now! against the draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund. One of the challenges for our economy is the skilful use of all innovations, the creation of new patents, and then their commercialisation. As it looks like in Poland, we know very well, because we have talked about this on numerous occasions in the Committee on Education and Higher Education. I also feel that there is awareness in the ministry, there is reflection that this area is limping. Question: "Is there really an intention to improve this area, and is there really research, observation, which external factors affect this lack of trust between the business environments and the science we are witnessing?" It should be noted that in highly technologically advanced countries, the largest expenditure on R &amp; D comes from the private sector. An example here are companies such as Google, Samsung or Microsoft. These are also the leaders who are in the top ten of the world's innovators, these are the most innovative companies. Again: Is there a reflection to trace this benchmark to these most innovative examples of cooperation between the scientific community and business? I don't think we have anything to break down an open door, but we have to learn from the best. We also get signals that universities themselves make it difficult for their employees to work with business, because they often see commercialisation of research results as something unknown, risky and uncertain. So here there is certainly also the role of the ministry to eliminate such a sense of risk in the academic community. In January, a report from the Supreme Audit Chamber appeared, which also leaves no illusions about cooperation between business and the academic community. And it seems to me that this really is a key area to take care of it, so that transfers of capital to universities or research institutes come from the private sector. And only the conclusion from the report of NIK: The companies created by scientific units have so far failed as effective tools for transferring knowledge, transferring science, developing results to the economy. An example of what happened to graphene in Poland can be an example of what happened to innovation in Poland. There's graphene madness going on in the world. Examples are South Korea, Japan and China, and some European countries are also extremely active. What do we hear in Poland? That graphene didn't meet the expectations of commercialization. So the question is, how did this happen? High Seym! During the last meeting of the Education Committee, we drew attention to the shortcomings in this law. Here it was already from the speaker, representatives of clubs, such as the Civic and Modern Platform, who pointed out these shortcomings, the lack of criteria for assessing offers, the selection of experts or the assessment of the potential of research teams. It's also incomprehensible to them why it's being created... I know, because you said it wasn't a new institution, it was a science fund, but somehow a new creation that would manage the capital of PLN 500 million, where we have the NCBR, the NCN. So what about these institutions? If we're creating something new, it means that we recognize that something doesn't work in another area. So why aren't we dealing with those institutions? We're definitely dealing with creative accounting here because we have a transfer from the bank to the fund. From an economic point of view, this is creative accounting, that's just lowering the forecast deficit for this year. I'm sure there's also a lack of information on how to return the bonds issued. In short, this project duplicates the tasks and roles of the institutions mentioned above, it is also highly centralized and Prime Minister Gowin has announced a very strong decentralisation, which raises doubts. I do not understand here the lack of consequences of the policy of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who has just stressed very strongly the cooperation of business and science, and in this project there is absolutely no reflection of these needs. And certainly a bureaucratic machine, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause I don't get the argument...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u25	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u26	...that it will be cost-effective to manage these funds. One sentence at the end. We support the proposal to reject the law at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u27	Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to add to the list of people asking questions? You're welcome, sir. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Alicia Chybicka, PO-KO. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the speakers have already raised the topics I want to talk about, but maybe more practically. There will be another institution that will allocate funds for research. In addition, there is a virtual research institute in the records, which is to be interdisciplinary, i.e. medicine, physicists, theorists, and it is interdisciplinary not only in the country but also abroad. Here's my question. Practically, if a medic works at a medical university, to whom, to which institution - to which minister will be assigned the funds for medical research - should he turn? Can he address all the institutions you know about? To the NCBR, to the Medical Research Agency, to the newly established institution? And who's gonna be in charge of spending money? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u30	Is the Minister of Science or the Minister of Health, if this is medical research? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u31	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u32	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The main entity managing the activities of the first virtual research institute is the Polish Centre for Technology Development, a centre which already has experience in coordinating scientific research and commercialization. Should not the entity selected in the open competition also include the requirement to include in the offer information on experience and results, if not commercialisation, at least the implementation of research results for practical applications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u33	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main assumption of the draft law on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund is the development of innovative products. This is the purpose of virtual research institutes bringing together outstanding scientists who have the potential to come up with something, to develop something, but also to effectively commercialise this product. The whole creation of the WIB, its work and the evaluation of its effects will be supervised by management bodies. So far, a number of projects financed e.g. by NCBR had an implementation objective, but the effects remained on paper. So what will be the mechanisms to force effectiveness and bring the matter to an end by WIB research teams? And second question. There is much talk about the objectives of this law in the context of biotech research in the medical field. We recently adopted a law on the Medical Research Agency aimed at financing research in this field. How do you get one institution to the other? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u35	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u36	High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Minister! Funds are reduced when the situation is difficult and basically to cover losses. Why are you trying to do this? You're looking for money. Maybe that's good, maybe you need the Polish Science Fund, but not what you've come up with. This is a fund out of the minister's pocket, which we want to spend whatever 500 million on. We've had promises like this before. Innovative electric cars. Where are they? There isn't. In this case, your idea is unfortunately from space, there is no chance of realization, and the biggest opposition is that you will spend it freely. I agree because today almost all opposition speaks with one voice: you did wrong, you try to reduce debt and you do tricks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't do anything for science, you reduce the funds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u37	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law cannot serve the development of science or innovation. This law can serve to develop the administration and satisfy a group of beneficiaries. The beneficiaries chosen by the Minister, who knows which minister, are not known according to which rules. My question is particularly about criteria and principles. You mustn't write in the bill so much money, that you can give it to someone, you don't know who, while science suffers from a shortage, when medical research is suspended, the most important research, it will admit each of us. Cancer research is suspended because there is no money to pay for volunteer research. In such a situation, the adoption of this law is evil, it is really a reduction in the money for research. My first question concerns the criteria, and the second question concerns the operation of this fund, because as it was said at the committee meeting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It won't require a fee. It's gonna take a while. How high? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u39	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law does not specify the financial or legal consequences if the actions do not produce the desired results or the proposed solutions do not raise the interest of the commercial sector. It may turn out that research isn't worth a pound of lint, for example. on the arrangements relating to climate change in the world and the role of man in them, or on the search for a famous philosopher's stone. Money for such research will be wasted. I have a question: Why was it not secured against such spending, and is it intentional or accidental? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u41	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In general, you can say that this bill is wrong. I have a question and I pay attention to the problem with the selected management unit of WIB. The draft law explicitly lists the Polish Centre for Technology Development, which would perform this function without competition. Is the fact that it is directly subject to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education a reason for its preference? And Polish science, as it was underfunded, will continue to be in the bonds of decision-making centralism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u43	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There is no such thing as institutions that work costlessly. Even if it is a virtual institution, it will certainly generate some costs. I ask the question: Why create a virtual institution if we have real institutions? Why are we making it in the election year? Isn't it created only so that the minister responsible - whether the minister of higher education or any other minister - because it is not precisely specified in this law - can divide these funds into selected centres manually during the election period so that it is another election sausage, which we already had a lot of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u45	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u46	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The project to create the Polish Science Fund is good and innovative. Firstly, it ensures the stabilisation of the funding system for research and development, and secondly, it involves increasing the scale of commercialisation of innovative ideas. This is extremely important and necessary, and you know it. And it's hard to understand the opposition that criticizes the project. I ask if you do not want to support Polish science, research, implementations. I am amazed that today you have a whole lot of ideas, and I ask why you did not have them when you were responsible for the development of Polish science, and you have only led to many negligence that we are repairing today. Minister, what are the next steps of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education in implementing the project? Because I still hope that the opposition will reflect and support the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u47	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u48	High Izbo! Science and research must be supported, but not at the expense of ruining the state and institutions. It cannot be that anyone who has power invents a formula for drawing money from anywhere, as in this case from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. What is the role of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in this business, what is he really going to decide about? We know that this bank has a conscious policy regarding local governments, development support, housing support, revitalization and many other issues. And in this case, where is this synergy effect to be? Looks like Prime Minister Gowin was jealous of the Prime Minister of the Capital Investment Fund. There's 2 billion to hand out, there's 500 million to hand to hand. We still have two Deputy Prime Ministers, and more funds are bowing down, right? From anywhere - like e.g. from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to public roads [[♪ The bell ♪]] or from the MON budget for self-government roads. Is that how it's supposed to be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u49	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Adam Korol, the PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. According to the Act submitted, the only source of funding is the statutory fund of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which allocates PLN 500 million for this purpose. The source of funding is not indicated next year or next year. I ask the question: What will be the financing for next year and next years if Minister Gowin spends this 500 million this year - because this can happen, of course, theoretically - where are you going to get the money to finance this fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u51	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the procedated bill on supporting scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund, I have a question: What are the costs of creating, maintaining, equipment and handling the Polish Science Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u53	Thank you. And as the last question you ask Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the speech of representatives of the opposition it was stated that the Minister of Science and Higher Education would be arbitrary, one person, and manually distributed this amount of PLN 0.5 billion. However, the draft law states that supervision of the management of funds of the fund is entrusted to the Supervisory Board of BGK - that is art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 project - and the Supervisory Board is extended by only one representative of the Minister. So, Minister, is there going to be this arbitrariness, this one-personity, or is there really a supervisory board? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u55	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Dardziński to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for all your questions and for all your comments on the proposed Polish Science Fund. I will now try to answer the questions in the order in which you asked them. Mrs Chybicka asked who the scientist from the area of medical research should address, whether he should address the NCN or the NCBR, whether he should address the Medical Research Agency or whether he should address the newly created fund in the future. It may address all these institutions, depending on the stage at which it conducts the research, within which the subject carries out the research and what are the objectives of the research. Thanks to the fact that the Polish Science Fund will be created, this variety of possibilities for carrying out research projects is increasing. Mr Piotr Pyzik asked if we should take the criterion of commercialisation into account more seriously in the criteria for selecting the operator of research teams. This criterion is already in place, it is written in the act. It says that potential operators of virtual research institutes should have experience in commercialisation. This is an important element in the indication of such an operator. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski asked how the Medical Research Agency had to appoint a new fund. It is positive because they are mutually supportive institutions. The Agency for Medical Research will finance research that is at a different stage of research development. The Polish Science Fund, due to its long-term investment in science, will focus on the research that they have, say, an effect ahead of those researches which are already final research for the Medical Research Agency, e.g. This is about clinical trials, which is the Agency for Medical Research will support clinical trials to a much greater extent, and we will rather support those studies that may possibly produce products that should then be subjected to clinical trials. So that here there is a line of cooperation, there is no problem with the disorder of the entire cycle of research. Mrs Fabisiak mentioned the development of the administration and also asked about the criteria for the choice of operator, as I mentioned earlier. These criteria are defined in Article. 7. On the other hand, as to the question of the principles of selecting beneficiaries or setting up an operator, I would like to say that the operator is defined in Article. 7, while the beneficiaries, i.e. the research teams that will benefit from these measures, will be selected by experts. By the way, Mr Brynus has put a rather devastating criticism into a situation, speaking of the scientific pathology that exists in one of the agencies with the highest quality experts. It seems to me that it was quite inappropriate to talk about pathological behaviour, unless there is evidence in the context of functioning agencies where decisions are ultimately taken by experts and not by ministers or directors of those agencies. Mr Brynus also asked how we would prevent the possibility of funding research on the search for philosophical stone. Until now, as long as we have reliable information, this type of research has not been funded. In the previous term, however, one agency financed drugs from the corner of a deer, but unfortunately this project failed. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski asked about operating costs. This is a thread that has appeared in several statements from your Members. As we have already said, we explained during the committee meeting, the costs are actually minimal here. They amount to 5% of the fund's value and if we compare this cost to maintenance, for example. agencies such as NCN or NCBR, this is a much lower cost. This is also one of the arguments behind launching such funds, because they work much more flexibly and respond to what is happening in the research area, which does not mean that there is no need for agencies that are more stable in research. We need both. Oh, why is this agency, this fund being set up in the election year? The work on the fund began actually in December 2017 and I must say that we thought that this fund would be set up earlier, but it turned out that this project was so complicated that we could only present it to the High House today. So it's rather a slight delay than the intended goal. Mrs Borowiak asked what the next steps would be. This is a very interesting and good question, because actually the purpose of the fund is not to set up the fund itself. The aim of the fund is to support the potential of Polish scientists, who in the area of medical research could start work today, whose effects will most likely be known in 5 or 10 years. So we're not talking about research that's going to end, but we're talking about starting it or pointing out research fields that are going to be the future of research. What the Ministry will do after the High House considers it possible to pass this law and when it enters into force... The process will be started as soon as possible with the operator, i.e. at the Polish Technology Development Centre in Wrocław. PORT is prepared, after initial discussions, has a prepared concept for the implementation of the entire project of the virtual research institute and consults it with the most outstanding representatives of the Polish scientific community. We would like, within 150 days of the entry into force, to have closed lists of the first teams to receive funding for the first tranche, i.e. for the first 5 years of research. Mr Adam Karol asked about the source... [[Korol.]] ... Korol. Excuse me, sir. He asked about the source, how the fund would possibly be financed. As a general rule, the Ministry is not planning to fund this fund in the near future, because the situation is impossible and there will be no situation so that all the funds are spent this year, as you mentioned. This is an iron fund, 500 million is an iron fund for those dozens of teams that will be set up so that they can carry out research in the long term. And that's a little bit of an answer. And your question is why we're calling another institution. Because the grant system, which operates in the NCN and the NCBR, is based on short-term grants, two - three-year-olds. This is actually an international standard - an international standard for this type of institution. But we were inspired by the Flemish example. I think Mrs Schmidt asked if we were making benchmarking or if we were learning from those who did it best. Yeah, we're studying. The WIP is based on the inspiration of the Flemish model, where, unlike the typical agencies that finance research, a small group of research teams from different institutions and disciplines were financed, but in long-term funding. Five to ten years makes it possible for scientists to risk their careers, to risk starting in discipline or in the field of research where no one has been active so far. If this is just a matter of 2 and 3 years, then the risk is simply too big, and we need to, we should explore phenomena where no one has research competence today, because only in this way will we be able to build competition in the future not only scientific but also economic. But there's an article in which it's mentioned what are the sources of possible funding, if the ministers decide so. These are both grants and bonds, as well as proceeds from commercialisation, because the fund will also collect elements from commercialisation of the effects of the action, i.e. from what research teams will do. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz asked about the costs. I mentioned them earlier, but once again I will stress that this is only 5% of the total amount of the fund. This is far less than maintaining large institutions. This is the topic, you have mentioned it repeatedly, but also nuanced, seeing that this is not a matter of real institution building. We are really not building any institution, we are not setting up any additional administrative posts. We're running an account at BGK that will feed the fund. The operator is already a company, the operator will only select teams of experts who must appear in this case, because experts - as I said earlier - will verify the competence of research teams and supervise the work that these teams will carry out. So the experts must appear and there will be a small management portion for which the 5% is intended. costs. So you could say it's the cheapest way to finance it. More precisely, this is the least burdensome in terms of the means to support science, the way in which research funding projects are carried out. Ratio: majority, i.e. 95% , means for scientists, and only 5% for the facilities that support the whole process, is very beneficial. Mr Andrzej Noblechta asked a question about arbitrariness. I must say that when I heard about the authoritarianism of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, I was trying to find the elements of arbitraryity that exist at this point, and like Mr Nobleman... It was very difficult for me to find fault anywhere or hit my chest, because first of all, the state is talking about centralization and at the same time criticizing us for doubles. We either centralize or double. In fact, we neither centralize nor duplicate. We build diversity because the types of research, types of researchers, types of teams and research units are very different and they require diversity. That is why this is another element in a different system, today it is spoken in fashion: the ecosystem of science. The ecosystem consists of a variety of entities. If we wanted to centralize, we would do everything in one agency and we wouldn't have any agencies at all, and we're just modernising, we're allowing different levels of research to be carried out by different institutions. By the way, the Agency for Medical Research is also modelled on a good example, as I recall, of an agency operating in the United Kingdom, which is well functioning and very effective. So we don't discover, we don't try to carry out projects that are the result of our dreams or dreams. We're on the ground. We check what is well realized, and with common sense we implement it at home, in Polish conditions, because we also have our own particularities, we also have our own ideas, we also have our originality. All arbitrariness, Mr President, will be limited to the fact that it will indicate the research area of a given virtual research institute, what should be carried out. In this case, as was mentioned, it will be oncology. Oncology, cancer is something that is our biggest problem today. It is not the best or it is not the only way to fight cancer to buy the most expensive medicines from already existing manufacturers. The way to fight cancer is also to equip Polish scientists with measures that will enable them to find medicines, therapies, procedures that will in future allow Poles to save not only health, but also very often life. That's what this fund is for. And if that is the case with the authoritarianism of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, I assure you that he will be very consistent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u57	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finances to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and some other laws (print No 3208). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment to the Act concerns a number of issues. It modifies the rules and procedures for the exchange of tax information, regulates in a slightly different way the obligations of financial institutions to automatically exchange information and control the performance of these duties, and also the obligations for the automatic exchange of information from information on entities forming part of a group of entities, i.e. individuals, but companies. In addition, the Act contains minor modifications to the Tax Order concerning the content of requests for individual tax interpretations, including the implementation of the Information Exchange Directives, and provides for the relaxation of certain obligations concerning the reporting of bank accounts by traders. This is because the Ministry of Finance already has such data, as they are transferred within the framework of the STIR system introduced by us in 2018. Changes in the automatic exchange of tax information aim to eliminate doubts about the application of the legislative measures initially adopted. To a large extent, these modifications were necessary in view of the concerns of the European Commission services regarding the details of the implementation of the EU Directives. The failure to introduce legislative changes could therefore result in the Commission initiating proceedings against Poland. We have therefore decided in the dialogue with the Commission services to make the changes that we present in this law. These changes relate primarily to the establishment of a catalogue of participating countries and countries subject to reporting obligations. These are due to the continuous dynamic process of joining countries in the mechanism for exchanging tax information. The point is that in our legislation we have provided for annual publication in the announcement of the catalogue of reporting countries, while many countries, as well as territories that do not have state status, but want to participate in the exchange mechanism, tax havens in quotes, territories that do not have tax paradise status, but from which we would also like to receive information on assets collected in accounts and in banks by Polish residents, proceed to this exchange mechanism within a year. We would like to be able to include them in the exchange mechanism, not to wait until we can include them in the next year's notice, but to include information that they have already provided during that year. This is the case for collecting information from them, but we leave the notice mechanism to the extent that we require our financial institutions to report these data received from countries entering the exchange mechanism. Here remains the mechanism of the notice, which will work in the same way as today, i.e. by March of each subsequent calendar year we announce - that is to say it will be like today - in the form of a notice, which jurisdictions, banks are supposed to show us the data for the previous year. This obligation for banks will always be the deadline of 30 June of the calendar year, while the exchange itself, appropriate, automatic, takes place until 30 September. Thus, the services of the National Tax Administration provide information received from banks by 30 September to all jurisdictions and countries that have entered the exchange mechanism. We are introducing provisions requiring the submission of declarations of tax residence under criminal liability. This is to ensure effective implementation and compliance with due diligence procedures and effective implementation of the standard of automatic exchange of information. In order to achieve some such systemic coherence, we extend this obligation also to testimony, statements made under the Law implementing the exchange with the United States, or FATCA. In addition, for the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 April 2017, we introduce additional verification of bank account holders. The point is that the persons holding accounts during this period whose tax residence the financial institutions may have certain doubts, the institutions have questions about what their tax residence is and that these persons should provide this information. Now criminal liability does not apply to the obligation for individuals with accounts to provide information. On the other hand, if someone gives it to them, they should provide the real information. And in this case, this rigor will apply. Again, this is an obligation which stems from the reservations of the European Commission services to correct the implementation of the Directive. We believe that this is a better solution, because an alternative solution in this case would be the need to close bank accounts, and this is definitely what the Ministry of Finance wants to avoid. The Act also provides for the obligation to re-identify account holders in cases where the so-called "ongoing account holders' are to be re-identified. an electronic search has not been clearly established that the person has a tax residence in a country. So it's all about the so-called. electronic search of persons who have bank accounts, apply explicitly the tax residence criterion. Therefore, some of the changes we are making here require changes in the IT systems of financial institutions. Therefore, in the Act we want to ensure appropriate transition periods. The second important group of changes, this is a group of changes concerning the so-called. The country-by-country reporting obligation. This is an obligation that affects very large groups of connected economic operators, so-called. international groups which, in addition, in principle exceed the turnover threshold of EUR 750 million per year. So, in principle, these are very large entities. And we make a few recommendations, this time addressed to us by the OECD, by changing the rules for currency conversion. The amendment consists of reference to the method of calculating the threshold amount adopted in the State of the parent undertaking in respect of the entity group concerned in order to ensure the uniformity of the exchange of that information concerning transactions between related parties. In addition, there are a number of minor changes, such as: the legal basis for the agents to sign information about a group of entities and notifications, the delay in submitting information on a group of entities until the end of the third month following the end of the financial year of the group of entities - it is important not to make it so that this obligation may be different, because the different entities in the group are of different years, let's say, financial - requiring that the additional information or explanations contained in the group of entities should also be provided in English. In practice, this is already the case because, as a rule, this information is prepared at group headquarters level and because it is exchanged, it is accepted in practice that it is drawn up in English. In addition, we clarify the issue of administrative sanctions for failure to provide information about the group, but we also extend these sanctions to cases where incomplete documents or incorrect data are submitted. The other two amendments that we make to this law are amendments to requests for interpretation of tax law. We would like to require that the State or territory of the place of residence or residence, as appropriate, be indicated, i.e. data identifying a legal person or an organisational unit or a natural person established or resident in a State or territory in which cross-border effects may occur or have occurred. However, this obligation will not include requests for an individual interpretation concerning an individual case only and requests for an individual interpretation on excise duty and on goods and services tax. The addition of these regulations takes into account the objective of the Directive on the exchange of information on the so-called '. tax interpretations. The situation is that we in Poland spend about 30,000. individual interpretations per year, while other countries - and I do not want to mention here, but they are those countries which had significant doubts about, say, the correctness of their procedures in this regard - issue interpretations that provide some tax advantages. Most often this happens in such a way that these tax advantages are provided at the expense of other jurisdictions and Poland is often a injured party here. We therefore very much want to properly implement the exchange mechanisms in this area and that we, even though it is organisationally difficult for us, meet all the requirements so that we also have the opportunity to receive the same information from other Member States. It is precisely those countries where, as we suspect, certain irregularities may be involved. This change is in line with OECD recommendations based on BEPS and is intended to enable an efficient exchange of tax interpretations with cross-border implications, and we are therefore also very interested in this. The last change is a minor modification of the Tax Order, which abolishs the obligation for banks to inform about bank accounts established for business purposes. This information has so far been provided by banks collectively on time, at such intervals up to 15 days. Since in July 2018 we introduced, as I mentioned, the STIR mechanism, which provided us with much further information, we want to eliminate the double obligation, as is currently the reporting of these data concerning the bank accounts of companies. We give up this obligation that has existed so far. It is quite anachronistic because this information about numbers and companies was not transmitted in electronic form. Today, we have something much better in terms of communicating this information. We give up unnecessary duty. It's all on my side. Thank you very much and I ask the High House to pass this bill in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u59	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. First of all, I would like to stress that Law and Justice will support the entry of these provisions into the legal order of Poland. We're requesting further investigation of this bill. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this draft law, the applicant proposes to introduce changes to the Polish legal order in several areas, among others. improving the rules and procedures for the exchange of tax information, clarifying the obligations of financial institutions with regard to the automatic exchange and control of tax information and sealing the obligations for the automatic exchange of tax information on entities forming part of a group of entities. The provisions in force so far need to be clarified due to the numerous interpretation needs of their importance. In the field of exchange of tax information, the government proposes inter alia. Extension of allowances, which will increase the operational efficiency of handling this issue. According to the rules in force so far, in order for information to be exchanged, the Head of the National Tax Administration shall conclude an agreement with the relevant authority of the Member State. The agreement shall allow authorised representatives of the competent authority of the Member State to be present at the premises of the tax authorities, including in the course of tax proceedings and control activities. Proposed by the applicant in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The amendment allows representatives of the competent authority of the Member State to participate in tax information procedures. In addition, the proposal proposes that representatives should have the right to ask questions to the witness and the party within the framework of the evidence carried out, access to documents, as well as the right to review and maintain them. The government proposes that evidence may be carried out in the course of the proceedings in order to obtain tax information. Following the entry into force of this provision, the Polish tax authority will be required to conduct proceedings within the scope set out in the request of the Member State authority. For the sake of clarity of the proceedings, when the competent authority of the Member State makes an application initiating an administrative case which may relate to a request for written information from the interview of the designated taxable person as a witness, the drafter in Article. 23 indicate the provisions of the Tax Order according to which provisions similar to those adopted in case of application should be applied in this process. As regards the presence or participation in the case of VAT, the same rules as for indirect and direct taxes have been adopted in order to harmonise measures. With regard to the automatic exchange of tax information, the government introduces a clarification of several definitions adopted in the dictionary in order to avoid the need to interpret their meaning. In addition, the proposal introduces in its provisions the principle of providing information which is limited to the scope set out in the proposal by Member States to increase operational efficiency at the level of action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said at the outset, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of further legal proceedings and will support the proposed amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u61	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws, print No 3208. The proposed law modifies the rules and procedures for the exchange of tax information, the obligations of financial institutions in the field of automatic exchange of tax information and the control of their implementation. The aim of the project is to eliminate doubts about the application of the legislative measures initially adopted, including, in the context of the objectives of the 2014 and 2016 Council Directives, the guidelines for a multilateral agreement on the automatic exchange of tax information and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. I'll focus on the most important things. The most reservations from financial institutions are raised by Article. 6 of the project, which requires additional verification of the financial accounts opened between 1 January 2016 and 30 April 2017. According to the project, reporting financial institutions will be required to apply to their clients with a request, I stress: with a request for a statement of the tax residence present at the date of the opening of the account. During a very short consultation of the project - only 7 days - most financial institutions raised the issue of high risk of banks being duplicated frequently already performed reporting obligations. The most controversial is the obligation to request historical statements to the client even when the customer has already made such statements. This may result in a significant increase in the number of complaints and may affect the risk of a loss of confidence in financial institutions. In many cases, customers may not respond at all to such a request. Financial institutions shall request that the obligation to re-submit statements be limited only to customers who have not previously submitted them. Insurance companies estimate that there are over 200,000 of them in this group. customers, and this applies not only to insurance companies, but also, and perhaps above all, to banks. The draft provides that, in the absence of a declaration, the financial institution will continue to make contact with the account holder in writing, by telephone, in person or by e-mail. It's hard to get a more imprecise record. We will be thinking, I think, on the resolution of this disputed issue where the financial institutions are very right in the course of further legislative work. Moreover, the Tax Order, which I would like to stress in particular, amends the provisions concerning the extension from 1 day to 2 months of the period during which banks are required to provide information on the accounts of fixed-term deposits. I agree with this provision, but I would like to highlight one point. Couldn't it have been predicted before? We are only now amending the Act, although it was known earlier that it was not possible to provide this information within 1 day. The impact of the draft law is mostly an unpredictable increase in regulatory burdens, an increase in the number of documents and, in particular, the number of procedures. For financial institutions, these are additional costs of changing electronic systems and increasing employment. It should be stressed that most of the changes contained in the project result from excessive haste in lawmaking and from errors and interpretation ambiguities. The directives have not changed. Unfortunately, we have not implemented them correctly, which is why we are now amending this law. You just have to admit it. Unfortunately, the timetable shows that we will be working on this project, attention, only 2 days - today and tomorrow. What else can be added? However, I believe that the debate in the plenary room and the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance will be able to clarify, clarify or remove controversial provisions. On behalf of my parliamentary club, I request that the project be directed to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u63	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print no. 3208, i.e. the government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The way of the young people gathered at the gallery! Minister! You say there are new needs. That's a nice way of calling it. In fact, you've just prepared this bill wrong. These are not any new needs, you just realized, in practice applying the rules that were adopted earlier, in 2017, that they simply do not work. Why aren't they working? Mrs Czernow pointed out the reason: too fast lawmaking, too fast knee-pushing. Is there any hope of improvement? Let's look at the way we're working on this project. Ladies and gentlemen, a week for a public consultation is a joke to me. You're giving the social side a week to talk about very complicated rules and very complicated legal conditions. These are special provisions. The Minister himself spoke for many minutes about these solutions. For many, they can be an absolute and complete abstraction. What does it turn out to be? I am referring specifically to certain solutions. You propose e.g. a change in the Tax Order so that tax interpretations refer to a particular entity and to the identification of a specific tax jurisdiction, that is to say, a given State. If an entrepreneur operates in two or more countries, then the countries concerned - I explain it to young people - are so-called. tax jurisdiction. So if someone's doing business, for example. When trading with Germany, it falls under the jurisdiction of Poland and Germany. The Minister says that this is why you want to know what tax jurisdiction it concerns, that there are competent authorities in the countries concerned that issue interpretations that are detrimental to the so-called. Polish tax jurisdiction. So? Because you will learn more about a particular case, will you, ladies and gentlemen, influence the fact that foreign tax authorities will issue jurisdiction less unfavourable to us, in the sense of our tax jurisdiction? This is ridiculous. I have the impression that it is a different thing, a realization or going towards such a provision: who is doing business is already suspicious of something. That's what I'm gonna talk about in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to interpret the rules... A rational legislator - young people will learn about it in law school, although my statement today is likely to destroy her faith in a rational legislator in the future - creates abstract rules, i.e. those that do not directly relate to Mr. X, Y, Mrs. Z. They refer to the general public. If there is to be a tax interpretation, it is supposed to relate in general to a problem rather than to a given situation. Some businessman, losing himself in a thicket of difficult, complicated rules, is yet to be exposed, to ask you about tax interpretation. Now the question is, what do you, ladies and gentlemen, and the tax authorities want to bring in a court of law? [[Applause]] If the interpretation is to concern a particular situation, a particular entity, then why the court? The Minister or the competent authority concerned shall give an interpretation and what? Then someone will go to court and what will the court do? The court is no longer necessary. There's interpretation, there's a specific situation, there's that. That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. We do not agree with this kind of clarification, to determine, to point out the finger, who specifically are concerned with these provisions, who are specifically concerned with this matter. If you hide yourself from the fact that it is the European Union that tells us, the directives... We want to go to the European Union just so that also such nonsense solutions, nonsense directives, which limit the freedom to do business, which are like a rag stuck in the exhaust pipe of a car - and wondering when the engine will eventually stop working... Ladies and gentlemen, the solutions you are proposing here are some kind of wire. You're trying to crush the solutions you took a year or two ago. It may not be a dictation and a October, but it's wired state. I would very much like this to change in the end, but I understand that these rules have to go to committee, we have to work on them and fix them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u65	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the government's draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and some other laws, print no. 3208. The draft law modifies the rules and procedures for the exchange of tax information, the obligations of financial institutions for the automatic exchange of tax information and for the control of their implementation, as well as the obligations for the automatic exchange of information on entities forming part of a group of entities. The aim of the proposed law is to eliminate doubts about the application of the solutions already adopted. The regulation is a complement to existing obligations, but, as the government emphasises, this is not the introduction of completely new legislative solutions. The project concerns the banking sector, investment fund associations, insurance companies, brokerage houses and SKOKs. The amendment takes into account the legislative solutions originally adopted, which are, inter alia, based on this. Council Directives 2014/107 and 2016/881, which amended Directive 2011/16 as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. The amendments are also based on the guidelines related to the multilateral agreement on automatic exchange of financial information, the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as well as the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The draft provides for consistency and complementing the statutory definitions and requires additional verification of financial accounts opened between 1 January 2016 and 30 April 2017 as regards compliance with the international standard for automatic exchange of information. The project also introduces regulations on trusts and entities belonging to a group of entities by establishing inter alia. the definition of the group of entities and the calculation of the threshold amount. It also introduces amendments to the Act on the Implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on improving the fulfilment of international tax obligations, which are envisaged inter alia. the extension of the exemption from reporting on the US NIP and the introduction of a declaration of tax residence under criminal liability. In addition to the basic amendment of the Act of 9 March 2017 on the exchange of tax information with other countries, the draft also amends three basic documents: the 1997 Tax Order, as regards the rules for the interpretation of tax law, the Act of 10 September 1999. The Tax Criminal Code, where the introduction of a type of privileged offence is envisaged in the case of actions contrary to the provisions of the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries, and the Act of 5 July 2018. - i.e. fresh, a year has not passed - on the amendment of the Tax Order and some other laws, where it is proposed to extend from 1 day to 2 months the period during which the banks will be required to provide information on the accounts of the fixed-term investment of the eligible entity. In conclusion, I confirm the assessment of my previous speakers that this project is the result of lawmaking in an unbiased way, without proper consultation, discussion and at a rate that is unacceptable, which I have often pointed out in my previous speeches, but of course we must work on the project, so we are in favour of referring it to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u67	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government bill amending the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries is an amendment, which is the result of legislative errors made, among others. in 2017, when we implemented European directives on the exchange of tax information between Member States. Unfortunately, this is a major problem for the Sejm of this term, where very little time is taken to draft very important laws. Members get their projects at the last minute, they often do not have the opportunity to analyse them properly, but most importantly, they often do not listen to the social side that represents those affected by the change, and already at legislative level, the social side often points to problems with the application of the law in practice. Unfortunately, once again, it is just that. representatives of the environments covered by the project, i.e. financial institutions, will, as a result of this amendment, be again burdened with work, sometimes with double work. This amendment, as I said, corrects the erroneously accepted, inconsistent solutions for the European Council directive on automatic exchange of information, guidelines, standards which Poland committed to comply with in October 2014 in the multilateral agreement on the exchange of financial information. The proposal also introduces minor amendments to the Act on the Implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America, as you have just said. I'm not gonna say it all over again. In fact, one of the more controversial provisions of the Act is the introduction of a requirement for additional verification of financial accounts opened between 1 January 2016 and 30 April 2017 in so far as this was not done in accordance with the Directive and the standard of automatic exchange of information developed by the OECD. This is the point where, as I said, due to the mistakes made by the government, the poorly implemented law financial institutions will have to do double work. And here we should seriously consider in the committee to what extent this additional information is necessary and to what extent it should actually be submitted once again, because this applies to a number of clients, a number of financial institutions, and this is a great deal of work to be done. In addition, this amendment provides for the automatic exchange of information on reported accounts, among others. consistency and complementing the definitions with regard to their compliance with the Directive. It is not the fault of the parties, the entities covered by the Act, that these definitions have been wrongly defined. In addition, the amendment also modifies the definition of a group of entities and the calculation of the threshold amount where the financial year covers a period of less than 12 months. In addition, the threshold amount set out in euro is also set in the equivalent set out in Polish zlotys, which will make it easier for operators to apply the rules in this respect and eliminate doubts about the rate to be converted. The Modern Club proposes that we continue to proceed on this bill in the Committee on Public Finance, but on the mistakes I have pointed out, it is worth to lean down and try to eliminate them this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u69	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under consideration, in principle clarifying and sealing the mobility of certain persons and financial actors in the grey area between countries, inter alia. In order to avoid taxing or financing illegal activities, it is a fact, but my question - this is probably the question of many of our voters - is: Does the changes made also apply to the accounts of Ukrainian citizens working and operating in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u71	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u72	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, is it true that the entry into force of this draft law will result in a massive request to the client to make a CRS statement, not only meeting the factual conditions set out in the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries, but also anyone who, during the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 April 2017, has opened an existing account? And another question. Is it true that the group of people requiring further contacts over 2019 is more than 200,000. customers with whom only one-time contact can increase costs by approx. 2 million PLN, and if this would be multiple contact - approx. 7 million PLN? And is it true that the customer's back-to-back service may call for changes in IT systems, which will further increase the cost of providing services, but also difficulties in carrying this out within the time limits required by the draft law? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u73	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Two short questions. Why, Minister, does the government insist that customers make historic statements about the tax residence when they have made such statements before? What is the point of this for the main purpose of exchanging tax information? And second question. The Minister said we're spending $30,000. tax rulings. Tell me how many other countries in the European Union spend. A few examples. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u75	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law that hinders business activity and further obstacles for entrepreneurs. These provisions, which applicants propose, are unacceptable, in particular as regards the introduction of the requirement for additional verification of accounts. I hope that this will be clarified during the committee work. Financial institutions must register with their clients and request statements up-to-date at the date of the opening of the account. The paperwork and the number of procedures are growing. In addition, verification of accounts from 1 January 2016 to 30 April 2017 is a misunderstanding. You're charging reporting agents. Will the real implementation of such a solution significantly reduce [[♪ The bell ♪]] volume uploaded... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u77	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the PO-KO question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The related parties will only be interpreted if they submit a joint application and describe in it the details of all planned transactions and tax benefits. Minister, I would like such a broader explanation, because usually the devil is in the details, but above all in the situations. And what happens, e.g. when the customer changes, or what happens if the planned transactions also change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u79	Thank you. The question is asked by Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Several times it has been said here by Members of the opposition that these are regulations that hinder business activity, that the Law and Justice treats our entrepreneurs very much in advance. Therefore, please give a broader history of the directive that we introduced in 2017 in the basic law, which is now being revised. Is it true that these provisions, which are being implemented, are only the provisions resulting from the directive, that there are no provisions that the government would introduce in order to hinder economic activity? You're clearly the minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He justified...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u81	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u82	...that this amendment... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u83	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor and ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question because it is said that this is the implementation of the directive. Has there therefore been a change in the content of the basis, namely those international and European directives and regulations, based on which the previous law, today in force, has been introduced, or has there not been a change in the provisions on which it is founded? That's the first question. Secondly, whether this amendment that we are looking at today and the law that we have already transposed, which you have adopted, are establishing a solution to the so-called. Directive plus zero, do you perhaps go beyond what is written in the directive, in the solutions proposed previously and already by the countries adopted and now proposed? I would just like to clarify this so that it is also clear, because, as far as I know, the directives do not change, they have their content, and the state simply could not implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u85	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this debate and for the questions that have been raised. I would first like to refer to one minor point from Mrs Czernow's speech on the extension of up to 2 months, from one day to 2 months, of the deadline for the transmission of information on fixed-term deposits. Well, Commissioner, it is so that at the time when we were investigating the STIR Act on this information, we consulted, we were in constant contact with the Polish Bank Association, in cooperation with them, we implemented it. Nobody then predicted, even the Polish Bank Association did not know that such investments could be used to make payments and therefore they were originally not covered by this law at all. Now we're adding it. This change also aims to meet the demands that different banks want to do it gradually, at different times, which is instead of doing it in one day, let's say, to phase it, that's how it would be defined. As regards questions concerning Ukrainian citizens, they can in principle be covered by this obligation. No, not at the moment, because Ukraine has not now joined the Convention on the exchange of information. On the other hand, it is very likely that this will happen in the future and then these citizens will be covered by this obligation. As for the question about the process in which... That's the question, sir, I'm sorry, maybe I misspelled my name, Barcikowski... [[Grabowski.]] Grabowski, I'm sorry, with the PO-KO, about the re-contact... [[Voice from the room: Please speak up.]] I'm sorry. It is about re-contacting within the verification process to a group of 200,000. persons. It will certainly be several hundred thousand people, because it actually seems so, but unfortunately in Poland there is an important group of people who meet certain criteria regarding the fact that a financial institution may have reasonable grounds to believe that they are not Polish residents or that they have a residence somewhere abroad. Is that gonna cost you extra money? Yeah, he's probably gonna cause it because it's the cost of changing information systems. I told you from the beginning, that's what's gonna happen. As for the question about the meaning of these historical statements, the point is that... Excuse me? [[Going twice.]] Going twice. Let me get this straight. It's not exactly like it's the second time. That is why, strictly speaking, the provisions of the Directive require that declarations be made on 1 January 2016. That's not what happened. This Directive should have been implemented in 2016 and should apply from 1 January 2016. That's why we need to get a statement like that for this day. So it could be like this, and it's likely that in most cases nothing changes between 1 January 2016 and e.g. 2 February 2017 But to rule out that any changes were, at 100% We can't. Hence the point of asking again about this statement. Ms Zofia Czernow's question about how it is in other countries when it comes to issuing tax information. I do not have accurate data, but it is quite common knowledge, and to this universal knowledge I refer to the fact that some countries spend from dozens to several hundred so-called. tax accounting, in which they date a taxpayer, what the tax consequences of certain of his actions will be. Most often, these countries do not play an important role in the scheme that a taxpayer is implementing, but are used as a sort of... to handle this scheme. So, as a general rule, these effects occur in other countries, hence the need to exchange information in this regard. On the other hand, our system was originally conceived as a system in which we only publish information on the scope of Polish law. Our system is not interfering in the sense that we did not introduce it to date the taxpayer on the side and allow him to treat the tax inflow so that he could benefit from some gaps in the system of another country, whether it's a Member State or a third country at all. We didn't do that. We did so only to give the taxpayer certainty about the application of Polish law, but unfortunately this kind of practice of issuing tax rouling was abused by some other countries. Małgorzata Płępek from PO-KO asked about issues concerning paperology. We tried to do it in such a way that there wouldn't be any paperwork, which means it would be as flexible as possible so that banks or financial institutions could ask through emails or simply using a text message. It was more about avoiding the paperwork. Mrs Elżbieta Stępień asked what would happen when the customer changed with regard to the interpretations given to related parties. I understand that there may be a situation that after we ask about the tax consequences of some transactions, the contractor will change. Therefore, it depends on whether the counterparty changes within the same tax jurisdiction or within another jurisdiction. We originally wanted a loan from Luxembourg, and we're going to have it from Holland. This is a major change. In this case, you have to ask for interpretation again, because there may be other effects. Just because. On the other hand, if the entity changes within the same country, protection remains because in a small number of cases such a case may occur where another entity has a different legal form, i.e. there will be a private company instead of a company with an o.o. Then there may be other tax consequences. You just have to take specific cases into account. If someone makes a complicated transaction with related parties and asks a question to be sure about the treatment of this transaction, I am sure that they will be able to adapt to the changes they make in the transaction if they are able to change. Maria Zuba asked for a broader history of this directive and asked if it was true that what we are introducing is merely the introduction of the directive. This is merely the introduction of the provisions of the Directives. Why are we doing this? In international practice, ex post evaluation of implementation is carried out. This is not just a Polish problem. As part of the OECD, there is a peer review process, i.e. countries which are parties to the Convention, which assess each other's implementation in other countries. And we, too, have recommendations resulting from this process, among others. This is where we implement it. The European Commission does the same. It looks at how it is implemented in different countries, at the full picture of how different countries understand what is written in the directive, and makes recommendations to the Member States on how this needs to be harmonised and improved. As a member of the European Union, we will not avoid this. It's not like the directive... If we could, if you ever allow it, rewrite a directive that contains technical regulations, and simply put it to the vote, that's okay, then we'll always be okay, but that's not the process of implementing the directive, we have to introduce it into the Polish legal order. The Commission will always assess the effects of such implementation at European Union level and we will not avoid the possibility of such situations in the future. It's just that, it's complicated matter. As regards the question concerning the history of the directive, because there were allegations from you that we are trying to do this quickly, I must admit that the situation is this: the original directive was published in December 2014. In 2015, there was time to implement it in its entirety so that it could start in 2016, because that was the original deadline from which it should apply. All the perturbations that have emerged now are due to the fact that it did not come into force in 2016. If we had kept this deadline, we would have had a statement on 1 January 2016 and everything would be fine. Meanwhile, in 2015 there were delays in the implementation of this directive, we did not implement it in time and this delay resulted in something that the Directive does not foresee, i.e. a transitional period between 1 January 2016 and 30 April 2017, which we must specially treat. At the level of negotiations with the Commission services, it was agreed how we should do this. So that maybe sometimes we implement something quickly, but in this case we do so to correct errors that have been made much, much earlier, when there was a lot of time to implement this directive, but unfortunately it was not enough. Mr Paweł Grabowski's question was about changing the content of the basis. I have partly explained this by answering this question, because the Directive is a legal act which is implemented in all the Member States of the Union. As I say, the European Commission is examining how the directive is implemented in all EU countries, and sometimes it comes to the conclusion that certain elements need to be implemented differently. As far as this question is concerned, I am partly responsible in the context of historical developments related to the fact that the Directive was initially not introduced within a time limit that was expected by the European Commission. In the case of this novel, can we talk about the plus and do we implement more or do we not implement anything else? We implement as recommended by the services of the European Commission and in accordance with our understanding of the text of the directive. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u87	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws, contained in print No 3208, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the Sejm to set a deadline for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and some other laws (Prints No. 3205 and 3248). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Public Finances in print No. 3248 on the Government's draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and some other laws, print No. 3205. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 13 February 2019 the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. Three amendments were tabled during the first reading, which were approved by the committee. The Public Finance Commission, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 21 February 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u89	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. I'm very sorry, but we discussed this.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u90	Again, I apologize for the confusion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Public Finance in print No 3248 on the Government's draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws contained in print No 3205. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on the establishment of a general legal framework for securitisation is a prerequisite for the amendment of that law. Regulation No 2017/2402 is directly applicable in the countries of the European Union as from 1 January 2019. However, in order to make the regulation more effective, it is necessary to amend the provisions of Polish law, in particular the Law of 21 July 2006 on supervision of the financial market, but also several other laws: banking law, the Law of Entrepreneurs, investment funds or the Ombudsman. The proposed amendment extends the supervisory powers of the Financial Supervision Commission to supervision of securitisation processes and confers control powers on the supervisory authority - KNF - of securitisation participants in respect of compliance with legal standards. Accordingly, for the purposes of the audit, the Financial Supervision Authority shall be granted the right to request explanations from the entities audited and, to the extent necessary, to inspect financial documents such as accounting, commercial, regulations, instructions, copies, copies of documents and extracts thereof, including those documents which are confidential and protected by law. The Commission for Financial Supervision will also have the right to conduct investigations under this Law. In order to make supervision effective, KNF will be empowered, in accordance with the project, to take corrective measures and impose administrative sanctions by decision for infringement of the Regulation. The sanctions envisaged are primarily the suspension in the activities of the member of the board responsible for the infringement, the prohibition of a member of the management board or management functions in the entities involved in the securitisation, the fines up to the amount specified in the Act. Thus, the fines included in the Act are amounts not exceeding PLN 20 869 500 - from both legal persons and natural persons - or twice the amount of benefits obtained or losses avoided as a result of the infringement when it is possible to determine them. The monetary penalty is fixed in the Law at the said level, but an alternative penalty may be applied: 10% of the net revenue from the sale of goods and services and the financial operations for the last financial year resulting from the approved report. The rules that apply to insurance undertakings are also regulated. In addition to the sanctions discussed, they should also make public the information on the sanctions covered by the entities on the website of the Financial Supervision Commission. The proposed amendments, on the one hand, are forced by a regulation of the European Parliament, but on the other hand, they also give an opportunity to ensure the proper functioning of the financial markets, transparency and security of this funding channel, which is securitisation of claims as a source of financing for companies and lending to banks. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and proposes two amendments to the bill. One is specific, the other is mixed, precise and substantive. Here you go, these are corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u91	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws, print Nos 3205 and 3248. As my previous speakers have already presented, the aim of the draft government law is to implement and ensure effective implementation by the Republic of Poland of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/2402. This regulation concerns the establishment of a general framework for securitisation and the creation of a specific framework for simple, transparent and standard securitisation. The proposed government bill identifies the Financial Supervision Commission as the competent authority to supervise compliance and compliance with the obligations laid down in Regulation 2017/2402 by amending the Law of 21 July 2006 on financial market surveillance. The aim of the work of the Committee on Public Finance was to adapt the legal provisions of the bill to the Polish legal system. In order to ensure the proper implementation of this Regulation, the draft law grants additional powers to the Financial Supervision Commission. It shall provide the Commission's office and its staff with new and enhanced supervisory powers and powers to apply administrative sanctions, fines, financial penalties and remedies in certain cases. The penalties are linked to the revised criminal rules provided for above. The bill. It is very important that KNF, as the competent authority for the supervision of securitisation obligations, has access to confidential and statutory information, as well as the possibility of publishing information on the website of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority on specific administrative sanctions imposed. In the course of the committee's work, amendments were also made to amendments to the provisions of the relevant laws concerning the various financial market sectors, taking into account the amendments to the Directives mentioned. The bill submitted is in line with European Union law. My club is in favour of handing over the project for further legislative work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u93	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws. Dear Member States, these changes, firstly, implement European legislation in our legal order, secondly, they concern either the very complex matter of securitisation. For this reason, it seems appropriate to extend, extend, increase the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is to ensure efficient and effective order in the financial market, the security of the financial market and its participants, both entrepreneurs, natural persons and banks or insurance companies, investment fund associations and shareholders. So, ladies and gentlemen, looking at it so broadly and in general, these solutions are simply needed. As regards specific substantive issues, the rapporteur informed that amendments had been tabled during the committee's work, which had been accepted. We also know that amendments were also tabled at second reading. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 does not amend this draft law at the second reading stage, but after the final adoption or rejection of amendments tabled by other clubs today during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 will express its opinion on this project during the third reading. At this point, we're not making any recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u95	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Law on Financial Market Surveillance and some other laws, in print no. 3205 and 3248. The draft law aims at implementing, implementing Regulation 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standard securitisation and amending other Directives of the European Union and regulations on the subject. The draft defines the concept of securitisation as a transaction or a programme whereby the credit risk associated with the exposure or pool of exposures is broken down into tranches. The Regulation entered into force on 17 January 2018 and its provisions are already directly applicable as from 1 January 2019 in all Member States. Under our Polish conditions, the draft law identifies the Financial Supervision Commission as the authority competent to supervise compliance with the rules and performance of the obligations set out in the Union Regulation on securitisation. In addition, the draft provides the Financial Supervision Commission with the power to apply administrative sanctions and remedies, as well as to publish information on the website of the Financial Supervision Authority on the imposition of such sanctions and on access to confidential information. The entities involved in the securitisation are banks, securitisation funds, leasing and insurance companies and individual and institutional investors. Those entities should comply with due diligence, transparency, risk retention and application of credit criteria and requirements for the sale of securitisation positions to clients. The securitisation of claims in the long term creates additional investment opportunities for companies and provides an alternative source of capital. The first reading of the project, as my previous speakers said, took place at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. During the meeting, the committee adopted three amendments aimed at improving communication between public oversight authorities and introducing in the legal order solutions compatible with European Union law. My club, the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is in favour of further legislative work on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u97	Thank you very much. And now Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government bill amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act is a project implementing the European Directive. It is about implementing changes in financial market surveillance aimed at improving the general legal framework for securitisation and establishing specific grounds for simple and transparent securitisation. What key changes does this law make? It's about pointing out, among other things. The Financial Supervision Commission as the competent authority for the supervision of the securitisation market, the granting of KNF the power to carry out controls in securitisation entities, the imposition of administrative sanctions and corrective measures in the event of irregularities being detected and the granting of KNF powers to publish on the KNF's website information on sanctions imposed. These are indeed some changes in order that will make it easier for us to have access to information on all kinds of irregularities in the management of securitisation funds and other positive changes implemented in the context of the adoption of this directive. The changes made should contribute to ensuring the proper functioning of the securitisation market, increasing its transparency and security vis-à-vis entities involved in securitisation processes, as well as investors purchasing securities issued in such a process. We know very well that there is a problem in the market that there are various problems that today contribute somewhat to slowing down the development of this market. I am not sure that this directive and this law will solve all our Polish problems, but it is certainly in the direction acceptable. At the same time, actions are identified and monitoring of this market is intended to improve efficiency. We hope that this will help to improve efficiency, and in the longer term it can contribute to the fact that companies will be more willing to use this type of investment in order to obtain additional sources of capital. In general, in conclusion, the Modern Club is in favour of further investigation of this law, and at the moment I would like to say that we will vote in favour of this project in the final vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u99	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. And I ask you to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. Mr President, one minute. There's no... Then Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the applicant's view, although securitisation, i.e. the creation of a fund collecting claims outside the capital of the bank, is rather a small phenomenon on the Polish market, its excessive and uncontrolled application is considered to be one of the causes of the 2007 financial and banking market crisis, is the proposed rules sufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u101	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law confers large supervisory powers on the financial market of the Financial Supervision Authority, and I have no reservations about that. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister: Shouldn't the information obligations of the Financial Supervision Committee be regulated towards the Sejm? The Sejm should know how the Financial Supervision Commission carries out additional competences and what the consequences of this activity are. I ask this in the context of yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, when the representatives of the Financial Supervision Committee did not give the members of the Finance Committee an answer to specific questions, hiding themselves in secret about their activities. However, I believe that this issue needs to be regulated so that such situations do not occur. The Sejm and the Public Finance Commission have the right to have full information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u103	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the draft law amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act pose a risk of financial consequences for supervised entities that are participants in the securitisation market. As the scope of supervision is extended, costs are also increasing. Those costs shall be in accordance with Article. 19a The Financial Market Surveillance Act is covered by fees and payments made by supervised entities. It would therefore be appropriate to analyse these costs and related financial consequences that will be met by supervised entities following the entry into force of the proposed legislation. Are you planning to carry out this analysis in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u105	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A question for the Minister. Is the government planning a deep, thorough reform of the rules governing the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority at all? Does the government plan to reform the entire financial market supervision system in Poland in the near future? As we know, this law - earlier we have dealt with the Committee on Banking Supervision, she, so to speak, has extended her scope to the whole financial market - has been repeatedly amended, amended. Hence the question: Do you think about this already at this point, in order to completely reform this supervision, to amend it? If so, in what direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u107	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor and answer the questions raised by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions, thank you for this debate. Maybe I should start by asking Mr Pyzik a question. We know that securitisation is indeed a phenomenon that has its good and bad sides. The bad news was that, before the crisis, the honourable Member said, because of the lack of proper supervision, because public institutions did not behave in an appropriate way. We have had irregularities related to the fact that securitisation is very often consequently in such a form that bonds that are the result of this securitisation process are sometimes sold to individuals without full awareness of what is actually being bought. Such irregularities really need to be addressed and our assessment of this regulation... In fact, we have a rather difficult design here - and I will also allow myself to answer Mrs Małgorzata Płępek's question - because the established rules for the change in securitisation, the amendments adopted by the regulation, which enter directly, first, mean that Poland as a party has accepted these provisions, considered that we are actually dealing with a certain step that civilizes the securitisation market. Therefore, in answering Mr Pyzik's question here, one can say yes: it is indeed a good step. Strengthening the supervision of securitisation, better standards, transparency is all that is needed to ensure that all these irregularities that have been seen in recent years are smaller, limited, levelled. As this is a regulation which, like any regulation adopted by the European Union, is known to enter directly, there is no possibility of changing the level of penalties. And that's the minus. This law regulates certain things, allows this regulation to, you can say, enter more effectively into the Polish legal order, but there is no way that those penalties that can be... We also very often see in European solutions that financial market regulation is adapted to the conditions of the richest countries. For this reason, you can say, penalties are set at a very high level, usually, as comes to implementation on Polish soil, they are considered excessive, unjustified. And it is. Unfortunately, there is such a problem with all of this that the voice of the countries of our region during the preparation of this legislation is not always heard and these countries have the greatest opportunity to impose a certain level of penalties. For this reason it looks disproportionate to the size of the Polish market. That's what happens in this case. In addition, there is not even any possibility of modification. As regards Mrs Zofia Czernow's question, I understand that the Financial Supervision Commission has obligations under the law. As I remember from yesterday's session, the committee did not want to share information about a particular entity, concealing itself with professional secrecy. And it really is. I understand that the solution that can be applied is that the sitting is closed, i.e. As long as there is no closed session, the Financial Supervision Board may be kept secret. The same as asking questions about tax secrets in the case of one particular entity, it would not be possible to make public information about tax matters. In this case, this would be information from the KAS, and in this case, of course, we have information from the KNF. So it's a dilemma that this particular entity has the right to expect that all documents that it transmits to the KNF in supervisory mode are covered by this mystery. I therefore recommend that this situation be dealt with in such a way that the information which is strictly confidential is presented in a closed session, which would certainly be of benefit to the case. One last question. Mr Grabowski asked for supervision. Indeed, there is a need for a change of supervision. It is a good point that it is worth noting all weaknesses in the functioning of supervision. I would like to remind you that recently a new law has been adopted to strengthen supervision, which follows from the recommendations of national experts. We had this standard review that presents the International Monetary Fund, new people in the Financial Supervision Commission have been... Our thinking as the Ministry of Finance is now such as to see how this law works, identify additional weaknesses and after a while, if necessary, if it turns out that there is any possibility of change, amendment - the new chairman certainly has his observations - and we will certainly be open to taking further action. So far we have this bill, let's check it out, see how it works. I'm sure there'll be something else to modify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u109	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Government draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without concluding the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union (Print No 3256). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Ms Renata Szczech to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u110	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I have the honour to present a draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, print No 3256. The regulations contained in the draft go against the declaration by the European Union to ensure the protection of the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom in EU countries, which also stresses that citizens of the European Union in the United Kingdom should also not suffer negative consequences in the absence of an agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. In the absence of an entry into force scenario on 30 March 2019, the entire original and secondary European Union law will cease to apply to the United Kingdom on the date of its withdrawal from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. This country will become a third country and therefore the citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families residing in other Member States of the European Union, including Poland, will lose their residence rights resulting from European Union citizenship and further rights related to that status held by that date, that date and become non-regulated third-country nationals. In accordance with the Communication from the European Commission of 13 November 2018 on the preparations for the non-contractual withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union to the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council of the European Central Bank, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Investment Bank on the In preparation for the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union on 30 March 2019, the contingency plan during negotiations with the United Kingdom, the European Union has put citizens first from the outset. In line with the conclusions of the European Council of 29 April 2017, citizens' issues form the first part of the draft agreement on substantive law. The European Union has always felt that citizens should not suffer the negative consequences of leaving, so-called. Brexite. This requires Member States to take a favourable approach to the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom who already live in their territory. In this context, the Commission welcomes the assurance of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Government that even if there is no agreement, the rights of citizens of the European Union in the United Kingdom will be protected. The proposed bill sets out the principles, first, of residence in Poland of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families who will benefit from the Treaty freedom of movement. Secondly, the granting and payment of social security benefits taking into account periods of work and residence in the United Kingdom. Thirdly, doing business in Poland by foreign companies from the United Kingdom providing employment services in our country. Fourthly, the posting of an employee to Poland from the United Kingdom. Fifthly, the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of a foreign employer from the United Kingdom. Sixth, participation in the economic trade of British foreign persons, accession of UK nationals and members of their families to universal health insurance until they are granted a temporary residence permit or permanent residence permit, recognition of documents issued in the United Kingdom confirming the ownership of driving powers and the continuation of judicial executions carried out on the basis of judgments of the courts of the United Kingdom. One of the most important issues covered by the bill concerns residence issues. According to the new regulations, British residents and members of their families living in Poland from the moment of their departure from the European Union, assuming that this will happen on 30 March 2019, will have 21 months to submit their application in order to confirm their residence status in Poland by 31 December. The Act sets the date of submission of this application and the starting date of that period, taking into account the date of departure of the United Kingdom from the EU, which will be specified in the Polish Monitor. So that it is not a strict date for today referred to as March 31st. The right to apply for a permanent or temporary residence permit will be granted to all British people who had a right of residence or a right of permanent residence in our country prior to the so-called residence permit. Brexitem and their family members will also have the right to do so. The Act also provides that, after 31 December 2020, these proposals will no longer be dealt with. Authorisations on the basis of applications submitted will be exempt from fees. Persons who will have permanent residence in Poland on 29 March 2019 during a transitional period, i.e. by 31 December 2020, they will be able to apply for a permanent residence permit. Other persons will be able to apply for a temporary residence permit for the period of 5 years. After this period, i.e. after 5 years of legal stay in Poland, also after so-called. Brexita British and members of their families will be able to obtain a permanent residence permit in the Polish Republic under general conditions. According to the submitted project, the British and members of their families whose stay in Poland will be recognised as legal, from 30 March 2019 to 31 December 2020 and during the temporary residence or permanent residence proceedings, will have the right to work and to continue their business activity already undertaken. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the date specified in the draft will refer to the actual date of Britain's departure from the European Union, which will, as I mentioned, be initially specified in the Polish Monitor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u111	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u112	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very dynamic situation. We're watching what's going on in Britain. Yesterday we had a vote in the British Parliament, in which this vote was rejected by the proposal to leave the United Kingdom by agreement, by regulating all relations, i.e. it was possible to say a vote which is some kind of alarm bell for us, some sad information, unfortunately, because it could mean that on 30 March the United Kingdom could find itself outside the European Union without an agreement. We will see how things are going to work out today and in the coming days, but all the more so this bill is very much needed. Practically draft law, print No. 3256, on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and from the European Atomic Energy Community is a document which aims to ensure certain stability, some peace, some kind of safe regulation for this period, as it may turn out that without a contract, the United Kingdom will leave the structures of the European Union. It is also a sure fulfilment of the promise made by the Prime Minister Morawiecki, by the Polish government. Therefore, the Polish government is submitting a bill which is important, which is proof that the Polish government keeps its word. Of course, the scope of the law is very broad, it covers benefits, pensions, social security issues, labour market issues, business conditions, family benefits, including 500+ - we must be aware that the social assistance system in Poland is also attractive, competitive towards the UK system - sickness benefits, unemployment benefits and others that the Minister mentioned. So we are saving this for the citizens of Great Britain, of course, hoping for reciprocity. In the UK, this system also works for Polish citizens and Polish citizens are interested in ensuring that this system, which has so far functioned in social, social and residence security, continues to apply. So we have a document, which is very comprehensive, very detailed in terms of the different forms of UK citizens' stay in Poland and takes into account the needs of all UK citizens who are in Poland. Of course, we are aware that there are maybe several thousand British citizens in Poland, probably less than 10,000, those who use this system, and Poles, Polish citizens there will probably be several hundred thousand. But we are also aware that Poles are committed to this economic development of Great Britain. I think that many politicians in the UK know this very well, which is why Poles today also use the social security system in the UK. Law and Justice backs the bill. We are in favour of passing him on to further work in committees and consequently accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u113	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, PO-KO, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Due to brexite, it is necessary to regulate the status of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families residing in Poland. Indeed, when the United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union, British citizens will become third-country nationals. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law, which will regulate their status. I would like to remind you that this law really concerns a broad catalogue of cases, because the law will be governed by, among others, the law. issues related to the rules of residence of British citizens in Poland, access to the labour market, social and health benefits, recognition of driving licences, business activity, judicial enforcement of charges. As this law is so broad and applies to so many areas of life, the question arises as to whether the government could not send it to Parliament more quickly. Today we are in a situation in which we will proceed over this law in this way: on Wednesday the first reading takes place, and for tomorrow, i.e.. Thursday, a second reading is scheduled. I understand that you are prepared for the possible adoption of this law on Friday. Such organisation of work in the Sejm on this type of law really excludes the substantive work on the changes that you are proposing. Without a doubt, such regulation is necessary in the event of brexitu. For my club today, the most important answer is the question: What will be the status of Polish citizens residing in the UK after a possible brexite? Will our citizens be able to count on the same rights as British citizens living in Poland? Will Poles living in the UK be able to count on the principle of reciprocity for the same rights? I ask the Minister to answer this question, because at the moment, we do not really know what the rules are. The UK will come out of the European Union, whether it is an agreement or a non-contractual option. It is also reasonable to answer the question whether the Government has agreed with the British Government to adopt an equivalent regulation when Britain leaves the European Union without agreement. What then? What regulations will then apply to Polish citizens residing in the British Isles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u115	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u116	Thank you very much, Marshal. Indeed, it is important to protect yourself. It's a good thing the government decided to set things up just in case, sort things out. Of course, the question arises as to whether the United Kingdom thought the same thing, whether it would really be safe for 1 million Poles living in the United Kingdom to sleep peacefully when it comes to establishing themselves. But this is already a question where tomorrow we will move and ask the foreign minister, the current minister, what is this security on the other hand when it comes to Poles present there. We know what the deal is, but we don't know what's going on with this tough brexite. Has the United Kingdom ever taken action to calm down this internal European migration until recently? This is a very, very broad solution. I think it would be worth looking at it longer, but we have the situation we have, so we fully support the solution proposed by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u117	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u118	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! This is a new story in front of our eyes, which will directly concern the citizens of our country following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of an appropriate agreement, which requires a very urgent statutory regulation. The urgency of the government submission is fully justified by the issue of the regulation of residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. This is particularly true of the issue of granting and paying social security benefits, the issue of operating in our country by a foreign entrepreneur, posting of workers and protection, which is important, of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of an employer who is a foreign trader from the United Kingdom. The Act also regulates the failure to enter into force on 30 March 2019 of an exit agreement, which provides for the treatment of nationals of States Parties to an Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation as foreigners illegally residing in our country, and, on the other hand, the possibility of continuing their stay for the same purpose, e.g. the continuation of business activities. To this end, the bill contains three sets of provisions, generally speaking social and social. For UK nationals, the rules for granting residence permits applicable to third-country nationals are foreseen, and this applies in particular to those who are married. The following provisions provide for annotations: brexit in the first residence card issued to a United Kingdom citizen or a member of his family who has been granted a permanent residence permit on the basis of newly created regulations in the Foreigners Act of 12 December 2013. The project provides for the possibility for UK nationals and members of their families to acquire unemployment status. The intention of the Polish legislator is to participate in economic trade, and this concerns the issue of enabling British entities providing services on the territory of the Republic of Poland to complete the implementation of current services on the basis of existing rules. The scope of judicial enforcement in civil matters remains an important issue where, for social and axiological reasons, it is desirable to allow for the continuation of judicial executions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today's bill can affect the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as micro-entrepreneurs, because it provides the possibility of doing business on a similar basis to those of Polish citizens. However, periods of residence of United Kingdom nationals and members of their families will be important in this respect. It's about making your stay legal. The draft also provides that under certain conditions UK service providers will be able to complete the provision of the services in progress, which will translate into stability and economic certainty, which would otherwise be significantly affected. Art. The 62nd draft provides that the Act will enter into force on 30 March 2019 and therefore, in the case of the UK's non-contractual withdrawal from the European Union. This will be the first day on which citizens and members of their families will not be able to benefit from the Treaty's freedom of movement for persons. The project is accompanied by a description of the impact assessment. It should be admitted that it is very detailed in its content, because it contains data on contacts between citizens of the United Kingdom and Polish institutions, as well as comprehensively regulates the powers of Polish institutions with regard to people remaining in our country. In view of this situation, it is obvious that new jobs will be created in the Office for Foreigners, as well as in the voivodship offices, which will be integral to the financial consequences. High Seym! The regulations put forward by the government in the assessment of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats do not raise any major objections, but - of course - to ultimately be responsible [[♪ The bell ♪]] take a position, the project should be examined and refined at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, so as to clarify a number of issues that today, for example...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u120	Let me rephrase one more sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u121	Last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u122	Well, I am in favour of directing the project to further work in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u123	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Seym! I would say this: it is an obligation to proceed with such a bill. I will honestly say on behalf of myself and my parliamentary club, as well as the political formation that I represent, which is called the European Union - the Union of European Democrats, that this is a sad duty. Unfortunately, it is a sad obligation to proceed with a law which, as a result, receives the right of citizens of both the United Kingdom residing in the Republic of Poland and, unfortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Poland residing in the United Kingdom, certain natural, obvious rights. It is about rights that equalise the status of citizens, despite the national difference, despite the difference in the country of origin. At the same time, I want to make such a very strong political statement, both on behalf of the Modern and European Democrats, that the responsibility for this situation is primarily borne by British politicians. Those who have proposed a Brexit referendum, those who, in connection with this Brexit referendum, were also unable to explain the practical consequences, particularly with regard to civil rights, including those of the United Kingdom citizens residing outside the UK, and in particular those who used false, false, false rhetoric during that campaign. This is not the fault of the Republic of Poland. I would say that there is little, perhaps minimum responsibility for the European institutions. We had an opportunity with Minister Szymanski a moment earlier to discuss this situation at the meeting of the European Union Committee on Affairs. If there is a serious dispute today over the United Kingdom's exit strategy from the European Union, it is a dispute concerning the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. These are territorially and politically, I would say, remote from Warsaw, but they make Westminster's next draft exit agreements from the European Union are rejected. And there lies responsibility for complications that will affect Poles in the UK and the British in Poland. What is the responsibility of the Polish government? Because of course there is one. Unfortunately, in my opinion, we believe that this law was proposed quite late. It regulates certain solutions in a comprehensive way, but it also carries with it this process mode, which will be instant. We'll probably be voting on this bill the day after tomorrow, and it regulates very complicated matter. She, in my opinion, poses a threat, and if not, I would very much ask the Minister to explain in his final statement that those who do not... The citizens of the UK or the United Kingdom in the Republic of Poland, who, before 30 March of this year, i.e. in the next 2 weeks, will not perform recording activities confirming the right to temporary or permanent residence, will be in a very difficult situation. And this, unfortunately, I fear, will also concern, since we are dealing with a negotiated, similar situation of Polish citizens in Great Britain, this may also apply to Poles living there. What if, out of hundreds of thousands of Poles... Some say a million, some say 600 and 800 thousand, but surely there is a large group that lives there, works. If she hasn't settled her status and isn't in time, she won't know that she has a duty to do it in the next two weeks, then what happens to her on April 1st and later? And I'd like to be sure of one more thing. I hope that during our work in the committee we will be assured that we have a guarantee that the rights we offer to the British in Poland will be offered to Poles in the UK, regardless of whether Mrs Theresa May remains the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom or the British Government will change as a result of today's debate in Westminster and the vote that is planned for today. What guarantees do we have that those promises made by Mrs Theresa May will be maintained by her possible successor? That is why we are in favour of further work, regretting that they will be done in Parliament in such an urgent manner. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u125	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? Member and I will close the list. I ask you to ask Michael Szczerba, the PO-KO. There isn't. Mr Marek Wójcik, PO-KO. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! I would like to ask how many citizens of the United Kingdom are now in Poland and how many will be de facto affected by this law. It came to my attention that the Office for Foreigners already today encourages the British to register their stay, so I would like to ask how many people have already registered today, registered today, registered their stay in Poland in case of a future brexit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u127	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask whether the proposed regulations meet the expectations of full reciprocity from the United Kingdom towards Polish citizens living on their territory. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u129	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Minister, I thank you very much as President of the Polish-British bilateral group for this initiative to regulate the status of British residents in Poland, but, of course, we are dealing, as the previous speaker said, with an imbalance, because the number of Poles who remain in the United Kingdom is much greater, and naturally we are asking for their rights and we will pursue their rights so that the interests of our compatriots in the Islands are secure. I ask you to remind us of this situation and to ensure that the Polish state takes care of our fellow countrymen in the Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u131	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we would like the United Kingdom to come out of the European Union in a normal way, i.e. to deal with the British Parliament's agreement. Then we would not be dealing with these rules in a certain way, but we would proceed with EU rules. But it happened the way it happened. Let's get to the question. We have transitional provisions. Does this mean that, after Parliament has adopted the relevant law, we will amend this law or will we adopt other provisions? And the other thing. People who have been wronged by the British courts turn to my parliamentary office. I mean, how will it be with the interpellation of Polish law? It's about the British courts. How are we gonna handle this? Because things like this are getting more and more frequent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u133	Thank you. And the question is now asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! It is good that the Polish Sejm regulates the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom by law, but I have a question about the status of Polish citizens in the United Kingdom. Will the rights of Poles be legally guaranteed by the British Parliament and when? Prime Minister May's declarations are insufficient, as the British Parliament may have a different opinion, as it has recently shown. What are the guarantees that Poles will be adequately secured? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u135	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Again too late, again at the last moment, again at the express rate we are preparing this law, of course the necessary act, because we need to safeguard the interests of Poles in the UK and vice versa - the British in Poland. We know that it is a whole set of benefits, whether it's social or health, whether it's residence issues or much more. But I have two questions. The first question is, will the bill be... Is this the final shape, or will it already be modified several times by reason of the fact that we do not know the final shape of the brexite? That's my first question. And the second, equally important question: Have the interests of Poles in the British Isles been taken into account and is there any reciprocity of these laws? Has our bill been discussed with the British authorities? Will they introduce similar [[♪ The bell ♪]] Solutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u137	Thank you. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project regulates the residence status of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and members of their families in Poland. It is a necessity, but once again the law is in a hurry, even though we should exercise special care over such a law. Unfortunately, this is already a standard in this House during this term of office. Are you considering what happens if Brexit doesn't happen? Are you sure that citizens will not suffer the consequences if they lose their residence permits? The two-week period for regulating the status of Poles is certainly too short. I am convinced that the government will try to inform them of the necessity of meeting all the conditions [[♪ The bell ♪]] within that time limit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u139	Thank you very much, Member. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry will answer the questions... [[Me too.]] Excuse me. Mr Elżbieta Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u140	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I would like to ask you the following question. Many times the question of the final shape of the Brexit contract has been asked from this speaker. No one really knows what she's gonna look like. Are you prepared for a quick response when the form of the agreement is known to you? Will the laws allow you to react properly? The basic question that my previous speakers also asked earlier concerns, above all, the protection of the interests of Polish citizens residing in the British Isles. Do you intend to conduct this process fairly? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u141	Thank you, Member. I'm so sorry about the mistake. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Renata Szczech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the repeated questions of Members of Parliament in many ways, I would like to start by pointing out that on 6 December 2018, the UK Government published a document called "Citizens.' Rights - EU Citizen in the UK and UK Nationals in the EU - Policy Paper." It is a document in which the British Government presents the assumptions of British legislative solutions aimed at protecting citizens' rights in the case of brexit without agreement. With regard to the provisions of this document, we can say that the UK guarantees regarding the protection of the citizens of the European Union in the event of a non-contractual brexite are largely based on the solutions adopted in the draft exit agreement from the European Union. First of all, I would like to point out that the solutions proposed in the draft law are based on the principle of reciprocity. We have the guarantee made by Prime Minister May during her visit to our country, repeatedly confirmed by the British Government that the principle of reciprocity will apply to Polish citizens living in the UK. First of all, I would like to point out that the main differences compared to the Brexit carried out in reaching an agreement on the Brexit Agreement would concern, first, the lack of jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This applies to possible further effects on justice. Secondly, the date by which the right to remain in the United Kingdom will be determined from 31 December 2020 to 29 March 2019 will be postponed. That's the difference. The third point is, of course, the restrictions on bringing family members to the UK. However, it was withdrawn. The UK proposal provides that, in the absence of a contract, European Union citizens who have resided in the UK before a possible Brexit will be able to stay on its territory. This applies to our citizens who will have the right to apply for a free stay in the UK by 31 December 2020. If they do not, after this date their stay will be subject to new migration rules. Of course, in case their stay until then is still illegal. Such a proposal will then be dealt with in a simplified procedure similar to that envisaged, as I mentioned, in the draft withdrawal agreement. In answer to Mr Wójcik's question on this occasion, I would like to add that the right of residence and the right to permanent residence are not dependent on the possession of documents relevant to the citizens of the European Union. According to the project, possession of documents is intended to simplify the procedure. I would also like to mention issues relating to people residing in the UK legally for at least five years. These persons will have the opportunity to obtain the status of a resident providing them with protection of their rights for the rest of their lives. This status is also based on the solutions contained in the contract. It can only be lost after 5 years of absence in the UK. Persons who stay there for less than 5 years until their residence application has been lodged will be granted the status of a temporary resident and, after this period, after 5 years of legal residence, may apply for the status of a resident. Another setup. Within 3 years of the date of Brexit, EU citizens who are in the Islands will be able to join their family members if the family relationship existed on this contractual date of Brexit and the date of arrival in the UK. In the case of marriages concluded after the brexite, such spouses will be able to come to the UK and will reside there until 31 December 2020. This is also, as I say, the regulation proposed in our bill. The issue of professional qualifications and recognition. They will be protected in the same way as in the case of a contract brexite. With regard to the protection of qualifications already recognised and completed under the current rules of proceedings still pending on the date of brexitu, this will not change after the date of brexitu. Another issue, concerning other regulations, is access to the labour market, doing business - this was already mentioned in the project discussion - access to public services, health care, education. Poles will maintain their rights at this level, which is now, that is, the level envisaged, once again, in the draft exit agreement. I would like to point out that until 31 December 2020 entry into the United Kingdom will be possible on the basis of an identity card, as is currently the case. As of 1 January 2021, a new migration system is to apply and new rules for entry will be laid down. I would like to add, to discuss, that Poles who will come to the UK between 30 March 2019 and 31 December 2020 will have to apply for a three-year temporary residence permit. After this period, of course, as I mentioned, new migration rules will apply. With regard to Mr Lipc's question as to whether the bill is intended to be amended, I would like to say that the proposal does not provide for an amendment. Of course, if this is required by the situation after the UK exits, depending on the regulations that will apply, we will adapt our rules to these regulations. In conclusion, I will give the number of citizens of Great Britain who live in the territory of the Republic of Poland today. That's less than 6,000. Exactly as far as residence permits are concerned, this is slightly over 5,7 thousand.; I am talking about residence permits for temporary stay and permanent residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without concluding the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, contained in print No 3256, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2018 (Austrian presidency in the Council of the European Union) (print No 3145) with a Commission draft resolution (print No 3234). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to once again present to you the most important issues of Polish policy during the next Presidency of the European Union, this time the Austrian Presidency. Referring to the previous debate, I can stress that the very important event in this Presidency in the context of brexitu was, of course, the adoption by the European Council of an exit agreement which regulates all the important aspects of Britain's exit from the European Union, including civil issues, and is certainly the best form of protection of the rights of Polish citizens in the UK and the rights of British citizens in Poland. However, in view of the increasing risk of the collapse of this agreement due to the ratification crisis in London, we must be prepared to take emergency action. The key element of the emergency action from a Polish point of view is, of course, the adoption of this law, which is primarily intended to recreate a very wide range of protection of rights, which is appropriate for EU regulations, on a reciprocal basis, with the British side. I think it is a sincere intention, repeatedly confirmed by Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister May, so that the turbulence associated with the Brexit process does not cause any harm to citizens' rights. Citizens should not be held hostage by this political process and we are doing everything we can to prevent this from happening. Of course, the issue of the rights of Poles living in the UK has been crucial for us from the very beginning, but this is not the only issue that is important in this process. As regards the work of the Presidency, in addition to the adoption of this agreement, security issues deserve special attention. The Presidency has shown that this is a key priority for Austria by organising an informal summit in Salzburg on security issues, including in the context of migration. Legally, we had a very reasonable increase in the work on the exchange of information in EURODOCSIS and VIS. This interoperability of systems is crucial in terms of effective control of passenger traffic at the external borders of the European Union, both for the citizens of the European Union and for those who enjoy visa-free travel with the Member States of the European Union, and of course for those who must have visas. We believe that the credibility of border controls at the external borders of the European Union is the key to maintaining the Schengen system, the key to maintaining full freedom of travel within the European Union, and that is why we strongly supported the completion of work in these areas. The Presidency drew attention to improving cybersecurity, which is why ENISA has been strengthened, which is responsible for network security in the Union. There has also been a preliminary agreement on the ECRIS system, which is responsible for full ease, full availability of criminal records data. As a result of the shocking chemical attack in the UK in Salisbury, Austria, as Presidency, raised the issue of building greater resilience to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear attacks at European Union level. This was discussed at the European Council level. The need for sanctions for the use of chemical weapons in the European Union has also been established. We have agreed on the most difficult aspect of this agenda, namely the reform of the European asylum system. We have agreed to strengthen the mandate of the European Border and Coast Guard, in particular on cooperation with third countries and on return policy. The Warsaw-based agency, formerly known as Frontex, will have more opportunities to cooperate with third countries in order to better respond to the problem of uncontrolled migratory pressure at our external borders. There has been a conceptual and political breakthrough, I stress, not yet, in the reform of the asylum system. In line with Polish expectations, after more than three years of efforts, often lonely, over time in an increasing number of countries, a huge breakthrough has been achieved in terms of rejecting any form of transnational management of migration flows or asylum. In this respect, we appreciate the great dedication, the sincere work of the Austrian Presidency. During this period we had the opportunity to host a special Chancellor's envoy in Warsaw on this matter. The Presidency drew the right conclusions from the groundbreaking conclusions negotiated by Prime Minister Morawiecki in June by presenting a conceptual document which was intended to pave the way for the full implementation of the decisions we expected. Unfortunately, we are still waiting for the legislative confirmation of these actions, which is why this pressure must be maintained - it must be maintained at national level, it must be maintained at European Parliament level, it must be maintained against the European Commission. The second important pillar of the Presidency's work was economic issues, which were broadly understood by economic issues. The Presidency has tried to better prepare the process of negotiating the multiannual financial framework. This process isn't advanced today, the reasons aren't random. We are dealing with historically the greatest diversity in Member States' positions on the multiannual financial framework, which makes the forthcoming negotiations of the multiannual financial framework the most historically difficult, with all certainty unprecedented. Poland continues to stress that financing new tasks, in particular those relating to defence and migration, cannot be done in a simple way at the expense of traditional policies. We stress the importance of agricultural policy not only for the internal market, in the face of growing trade pressures from the outside, also from jurisdictions which do not apply very many high requirements which we are putting on the market for Europe, as well as for Polish farmers. In the context of cohesion policy, we present first and foremost Polish experiences on this issue. Cohesion policy was an important factor in social and economic convergence, which in turn eliminates, or at least reduces, unwanted wage competition or tax competition, which is criticised by some countries involved in the budgetary debate. We welcome the adoption of ambitious provisions on the internal market strategy. This is the key dimension of Polish European policy. Unfortunately, we note that these very strong declarations do not follow the facts. There is a continuing deadlock in legislation in the area of the freight package, in the scope of the notification directive or in the eCard directive. This is not groundbreaking, but important legislation that should ensure better openness, greater availability of the services market, which is extremely important for the Polish economy. However, strong political declarations unfortunately do not translate into appropriate legislative solutions. We are still facing persistent protectionist pressure, and it is often done by countries that are willing to wave the EU flag. Poland is one of the most pro-European parts of the coalition of countries which insist that the Community market, the fundamental dimension of the Treaty's cooperation on European integration, should be implemented seriously, not only by political declarations. The same applies to the construction of the Community digital market, where we note that time is detrimental to Europe, because this market will develop in any case in many other competitive business, economic centres and who else can set standards for this market. We demand that the fundamental dimension of the Community digital market be the free movement of data, i.e., the fifth necessary Treaty freedom for development, the future of this market. Without the full, Treaty- guaranteed freedom of data flow, we will have very limited opportunities to benefit from the added value of the European digital market. Without the freedom of data flow, it is difficult to imagine an effective strategy of artificial intelligence. The third dimension of the action, which we believe is on the verge of external and market issues, was the continuing deadlock of the Gas Directive. The directive did not provide any extraordinary expectations. This expectation was very simple and very basic. Our expectation, like that of the European Commission, was that the European Union should enforce its own rules, its own right in relation to every element of energy infrastructure at our borders. Here I must say that we have been disappointed to see the Austrian Presidency's work, which has put its hand in blocking the work on this directive. This year's impasse on legislative work was interrupted only at the beginning of the Romanian Presidency with a general share of Polish and French pressure. The idea was to finally draw completely basic, nothing unusual, consequences from our own arrangements regarding the shape of the energy market and the shape of energy security. Because in this case, we are talking about a case that goes far beyond the logic of the market alone, beyond the logic of maintaining fair competition in the energy market. This issue is of strategic importance in order to ensure the security of the region of investment Nord Stream. With regard to the neighbourhood, Austria has obviously focused on renewing the accession process in relation to the Western Balkans. This enjoys strong support from Warsaw. We believe that enlargement policy should remain an important element, an instrument of impact on our international environment, in particular in relation to the Western Balkans, where we observe strategic competition of forces, including those quite confronting Europe. The absence of Europe in this region does not mean that nothing will happen there. Disappearance means that these countries will make political choices at the expense of our prosperity, at the expense of our security. Events in the Azov Sea were an extremely important reminder of the importance of the neighbourhood policy, particularly in the eastern aspect. Of course, we appreciate that the 10th anniversary of this policy, the 10th anniversary of the partnership is a perfect time to renew it, but not just for anniversary reasons, we would like the Union to take its responsibility into account in the previously established scope for the eastern neighbourhood. The events in the Azov Sea in the Kerczeń Strait have shown that we need an ambitious presence of the European Union in this area, that the external policy of the European Union should be balanced and settled between the East and the South, because from both directions risks to our security may arise, but none of these directions is less important from the point of view of European interests. This is already the seventh Presidency, which I have the pleasure of reporting to the Polish Parliament, so I think it is a good time to try at least to look at this issue from a slightly broader perspective. Because we are usually forced to deal in total with the details of the European process, sometimes this broader, important picture can escape us. I would like to highlight a few fundamental things. Over the last three years, despite the polexit fantasies that I have unfortunately also heard about in this Chamber, Poland has been a participant in the most pro-European coalition of countries in a dimension which is crucial for the future of the European integration process. This is the dimension of the common market, in particular the common market in services, where we have our competitive advantages, as well as the digital market. It is someone else who causes an impasse, a long-term legislative impasse in these areas, and please answer yourself the question of who it is. [[Who?]] It is the Polish government that has set the path to the necessary migration compromise, which excludes relocation on the one hand, but gives the opportunity for the European Union's joint coordinated action at the external borders of the European Union, which, in line with our experience over the last three years for today, is the only effective means of dealing with the migration crisis in Europe. We are very close to a new opening in the European Union's defence policy, based on Polish expectations - we have been saying this for more than a year - to build the European Union's defence policy in full synergy with NATO. NATO is a key reference to the defence policy of the European Union, Europe and the overwhelming majority of the Member States of the European Union. There is no reason to duplicate decision-making processes, strategies, and in particular our very limited security resources. We pay attention to the need to maintain the strategic balance that I spoke about when reporting on the neighbourhood policy. The South is as important as the East. None of the strategic directions should be ignored when building this new openness in defence policy. We draw attention to the fact that the European Union should be open to the pursuit of all countries that want to maintain the defence industry. This case will be over soon, and it will be decided positively. The European Defence Fund will be open to the Polish defence industry. It will be up to us if we want to take part in this venture. We are increasingly present in PESCO's structural cooperation. Poland is actively present in eight projects, of course in particular those projects that coincide with NATO's strategy. I mean, in particular, military mobility. We are finally open - and this is the last, fourth aspect of our pro-European approach to the political processes that are taking place in the European Union - to discuss the new industrial policy and take into account new circumstances, in particular the growing protectionism of China. We do not exclude discussions on the principle of reciprocity regarding access to markets, in particular public procurement, discussions on market protection instruments or discussions on competition policy. After all, we are already part of these new funding mechanisms, in particular innovative projects with much greater market risks, which are important for the European energy transition, particularly in the field of electromobility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a proposal for change, a project for the future of the European Union, which we would like to leave to the new political cycle in the European Union as a good basis for such a reform of the European Union, which will be comfortable and comfortable for all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased to be able, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, for the eighth time as chairman of this committee, to present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2018 (the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union). Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Austrian Presidency was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 9 January 2019 and forwarded to the High House on 10 January. The government's information, as in previous years, was prepared in cooperation with all ministries and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. This is already the thirty-six-month report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland from the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the Union during the successive Presidency periods. The European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print 3145 at the committee meeting on 13 February. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by Minister Konrad Szymański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister presented the course and achievements of the Austrian Presidency through its priorities, but also key issues from Poland's point of view. The Austrian Presidency has focused its efforts on the three main pillars: security and the fight against illegal migration, prosperity and competitiveness through digitisation, stability in the neighbourhood with particular emphasis on the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership. As regards the implementation of the priority: security and the fight against irregular migration, the Austrian Presidency has focused on a comprehensive approach to migration, covering the protection of external borders, cooperation with countries of origin and transit and ensuring the effectiveness of return. The informal summit of Heads of State and Government in Salzburg in September 2018 was a tone of action taken by the Presidency in these areas. Key issues raised by EU leaders were the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation, security at the external borders of the European Union and the fight against cybercrime. In this context Poland welcomed the Presidency's accession to the agreement with the European Parliament on an act on cybersecurity, which is intended to contribute to strengthening the European Union Agency for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Network and Information Security and facilitate cooperation between Member States in this area. During the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, work on the reform of the Common European Asylum System was also advanced. Poland appreciates the Presidency's efforts to achieve a balance between the principles of responsibility and solidarity. The proposed concept of mandatory solidarity is an interesting alternative to compulsory redistribution. Further negotiations on this part of the reform are now being continued by the Romanian Presidency. The second priority of the Presidency is prosperity and competitiveness through digitisation. Work continued on the legislative proposals presented in the framework of the implementation of the Internal Market Strategy and the Digital Single Market Strategy. The Presidency's efforts have led to the conclusion of negotiations on the freight package to ensure effective application of the principle of mutual recognition and thereby improve trade in goods in the single market. Unfortunately, work on initiatives such as the e-service card and the draft notification directive, which would significantly reduce barriers for entrepreneurs, are in the impasse. An important element of the work carried out by the Austrian Presidency was the efforts to complete the Digital Single Market. Poland supported efforts to guarantee the free movement of non-personal data, in particular those of the public sector. Work was also continued on proposals for taxation of digital services. During the Austrian Presidency, the negotiations of the multiannual financial framework for 20212027 continued. In the opinion of Poland, the future budget should be more ambitious and reflect the political priorities of the European Union. The financing of existing policies, new priorities and the financial gap created by brexit must be ensured. The negotiations were scheduled for autumn 2019. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another challenge faced by the Austrian Presidency was security and stability issues in the neighbourhood with emphasis on the Western Balkans and the role of the Eastern Partnership. The objective is to make concrete progress on the enlargement of the European Union to the countries of the region. Thanks to the involvement of the Austrian Presidency, the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The foreign commitment to maintain the EU perspective for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single country has been confirmed. In addition, 16 negotiating chapters with Serbia were also closed. Within the area of cooperation with neighbouring countries of the European Union, Poland has consistently stressed that it is necessary to maintain a balance in the involvement of the European Union towards the southern and eastern neighbours. The Austrian Presidency organised in October 2018 the Eastern Partnership Foreign Ministers Summit, which this year celebrates the 10th anniversary of the inauguration, which should also be an opportunity to intensify the work on the Eastern Neighbourhood Policy. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As President of the European Union Committee on Affairs, I would like to emphasise once again that the Austrian Presidency is also a time of active work for the European Union's Committee on Affairs, actually as during the previous Presidency. During the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the committee held a number of meetings, 33 meetings where it discussed 85 EU documents and 35 meetings of the Council of the European Union. The Commission has also adopted an opinion on the three regulations on the common agricultural policy, which stresses that the common agricultural policy needs to be spent properly, as it is one of the cornerstones of the European Union's single market, has a treaty mandate, plays a key role in ensuring Europe's food security and promoting rural development, as well as in achieving ambitious EU environmental and climate objectives. The Commission has consistently and decisively voted against reducing the level of EU financing for the common agricultural policy after 2020. The opinion, by decision of the committee, was sent to the EU institutions within the framework of the so-called "EU'. political dialogue. At its meetings, the European Commission for European Affairs addressed a number of important topics. She listened, among other things. information on the annual report of the European Court of Auditors on the implementation of the European Union budget in 2017 In November, a committee meeting took place with the Foreign Minister Mr Jack Chaputowicz, who presented information on the civil consultations on the future of Europe. The Commission also considered the information of the Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for the euro and social dialogue and financial stability, financial services and the Capital Markets Union of Mr Valdis Dombrovskis on the Annual Growth Survey for 2019. The Commissioner also presented the European Commission's work programme for 2019. The members of the committee are also very actively involved in the various fora of interparliamental cooperation. During the Austrian Presidency, the Commission for European Union Affairs of the Polish Sejm was represented at meetings of the Visegrad Group, the Weimar Triangle, the Baltic States, and finally at the Conference of the Commission for the Affairs of the European Union Parliaments - COSAC. It is also worth remembering the conference under the heading "Helpfulness as a fundamental principle of the European Union', which took place in Bregenz in November 2018. The summary of the meeting was the text of the final declaration, which stressed that the aim of the conference was to increase its contribution to the more effective application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and to draw attention to the work of the European Commission in this area. I would add that, within the framework of the Commission for European Affairs, the Permanent Sub-Committee on the use of funds originating in the European Union and the Emergency Sub-Committee on Energy Policy of the European Union are still active. The Energy Sub-Committee has already completed a number of work on the legislative package.Clean energy for all Europeans and is now focusing its attention on issues such as clean low-carbon technologies or support for mining regions in connection with the European Commission's initiative in this area. I would like to stress that the Law of 8 October 2010 on the cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate, so-called. The co-operation law allows the committee to obtain current information about the government's activities in the European arena, from which the European Union's Committee on Affairs makes reasonable and systematic use. I thank you ministers for their cooperation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the well prepared written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union Commission decided to recommend to the High House the adoption of a resolution of the Sejm in which the Sejm of the Republic of Poland accepts information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the July-December 2018 period chaired by Austria in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u147	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u148	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After the very competent statements of Minister Konrad Szymański and the President of the Commission for European Union Affairs, Isabella Kloc Allow me to add a few sentences summarizing the presence, participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union from July to December 2018 during the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a period of work and concern related to Brexit. The decision of the British people in the referendum, respected by the Polish government, is very difficult and uncomfortable for our country, but that is the Union, that it is a voluntary union of states, and the sovereign in these countries is a nation. The nation has decided to leave the United Kingdom and we have therefore faced one of the biggest challenges that have arisen in the history of the European Communities. The Polish Government has done so, in the context of an extremely difficult and uncomfortable process for us, for the whole European Union, very well. Let us remind you that, as a result of bilateral talks between our prime ministers, we managed to guarantee the conditions for Polish citizens living in the UK. We have guaranteed this in the process of bilateral talks, it is a great success of our government. In the same way, in these unclear conditions of the Brexit process, it was possible to guarantee good conditions for Polish business in the Islands and in general in terms of Polish-British economic relations. This is very important. This is a very big success of our government. What will happen next with Brexit is no longer in Polish hands. First of all, the UK must answer itself in the House of Commons, how this process is to look, what the way the British people here see. Poland, the Polish government, in colloquial terms, has also done his homework in this dimension of bilateral relations. I will stress once again: these most important issues for us, economic relations of Polish-British, as well as the position of Poles living in the Islands, their status has been guaranteed. The next issue is, of course, permanent work on the next budgetary perspective. Here I will just point out that the proposal put forward by the European Commission, among others. by Commissioner Elżbieta Bieńkowska, she is far unsatisfying and our government is doing everything possible to improve the proposals made by Mrs Bieńkowska and her colleagues from the European Commission in order to work out much more favorable for Poland, for the Republic of Poland, for Poles solution. Ladies and gentlemen! We have talked about this, but I will stress that we have managed to take a huge step towards favourable solutions for Poland in asylum and immigration policy. That's what Minister Szymanski was talking about. In fact, the European Union is moving towards solutions that Poland has been proposing from the beginning, proposed the government to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. solutions that exclude relocation, forced relocation. We didn't want that from the beginning. We all remember this dramatic year 2015, the statements of the members of the outgoing government of Mrs. Ewa Kopacz, the then government spokesperson who said that we would accept every amount of immigrants... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...expressions for RMF FM. [[Oh, Jesus, again...]] As an ex-government spokesperson, I attach great importance to what the government spokesperson on behalf of his office says. This has been changed, reformed. The European Union is moving towards solutions that Poland has consistently proposed, so Poland has pushed through within the European Union solutions that are rational solutions that solve the problem but respect another human being. I am talking, of course, about the opposition to forced relocation. Let us stress once again: we cannot imagine forced relocation and forced refugees to live in a country in a closed camp. The European Union has withdrawn from all of this, the EU decision-makers have withdrawn from it, and it will actually be implemented in line with the position of Poland, the position of the Visegrad Group. It is also a sign of this, contrary to the liberal media in our country, which is really Poland's position in the European Union. An extremely important issue is currently being resolved according to what Poland has proposed, initially being in a minority. Now her opinion, the opinion of Poland, the Government of Law and Justice is shared by the vast majority in the European Union. The Gas Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of concern about the initiative. Nord Stream 2. We consider this initiative to be an extremely conflicting initiative with the European Union's Community policy. This is one of the EU's countries, much talking about the Community, teaching other countries how the Community should look like, really breaking all the standards of Community thinking, implementing, trying to implement this project together with a country whose standards differ far from European standards. But here, too, the past six months have been very intensively used by Poland. Last item - Western Balkans. We are very pleased to see another step towards bringing the Western Balkans closer to the European Communities. This is for us, for Poland, the country of Central Europe, the Slavic country, a country which has been against its will for 45 years in the communist block together with these countries, very good news. This is a real step towards building a united Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I kindly ask you to adopt a resolution on information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between July and December 2018, during the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u149	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club on the half-yearly report of the Council of Ministers to the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the work of the European Union during the Austrian Presidency, i.e. in the second half of 2018. This is, as the Minister said, the seventh report during the rule of law and justice. And for the seventh time this six months It is difficult to find some spectacular successes of this government. For the seventh time, the Polish government had to explain itself to the European institutions. This is also the last report before the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament. And let me also present, like the Minister, the balance of this 3.5 year in terms of our activity in the work of the European Union. Firstly, the conflict with the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union over the independence of the Polish judiciary and the dismantling of the rule of law. The conflict continues, but we can already talk about a certain capitulation of the Polish government after the Court of Justice of the European Union decided on 19 October to freeze the provisions of the Supreme Court Act until the final judgment in the case which the European Commission had brought to Poland. Secondly, the conflict over the section of the Bialowieza Forest. I would like to remind you that the Court of Justice of the European Union has also spoken in this case and has stated that the cut-off has violated European Union law. Thirdly, campaign 27 to 1 - as I understand it - for the government of PiS: 1 to 27 - means the charge of the government of PiS against Donald Tusk's candidacy as head of the European Council. Fourthly, the removal of MEP Richard Czarnecki from the role of Vice-President of the European Parliament. A situation without precedent that hasn't happened before. And fifth, last but not least, the PiS governments are also an anti-EU language that law and justice politicians are willing to use both abroad, in Europe and in the country. This is looking for enemies in the European Union instead of making friends. And as a result, the lack of diplomatic skills, which are crucial in the pursuit of Polish interests. Of course, I'm not talking about individual abilities, the skills of the Minister or various diplomats, but I'm talking about the fact that the boss comes in the end and spoils everything in two sentences. In contrast, I would like to remind and say that over the previous eight years the European policy of Poland looked very different. First of all, it was Jerzy Buzek who was President of the European Parliament and it did not occur to anyone, because there was no reason to call him off. [[May I? Yes, you can.]] Secondly, the government of Donald Tusk organised the first Polish Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2011. And I ask you to compare this Presidency and its organisation with how the Polish government organized an event, which should be an exceptional event, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and it turned out that even this Polish government could not, i.e. 100 years of independence of Poland. Thirdly, all three Polish Commissioners were politicians, they are policies related to the Civic Platform. Fourthly, it was the government of PO-PSL that negotiated for Poland the highest budget in history, [[Applause]] European Union budget, 4 billion more than the previous one, although the EU budget as a whole He was shorter. Today you translate the lower budget for Poland with a lower overall budget, and then you managed to do so despite all these adversities. And fifthly - I will remind this famous 27 to 1 - it was the Polish Prime Minister who was elected President of the European Council in 2014. And something that you considered to be a failure, the Poles considered to be a huge success. [[And it led to brexitu.]] Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that Poland is the heart of Europe. The trouble is that in the last three and a half years neither he nor his predecessor Prime Minister Beata Szydło have expressed this expression, and they have not confirmed these words in any way. I will tell you one thing: Poles are definitely all for Europe because they know that it is possible to be respected in Europe while taking care of Polish interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u151	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This is an important debate because this is the seventh summary, a summary of the Austrian Presidency. Of course, there is time for the government's balance sheet and this balance sheet - as the predecessor Agnieszka Pomaska put it - is still fatal. A fatal balance sheet, but we have good news: the Romanian Presidency, the next one, will be the last of these fatal ones. We will rebuild it, we will return to the right track when the Polish government is indeed a government and a pro-European and decision-making government. Because the problem is that even with these Austrian priorities, you simply do not participate in this debate. Security, migration - great when it comes to European border guards, very important. The Minister says this: these new policies and new tasks must not be at the expense of the policies that are most important to us. Well, what is the state of play of this task before you, the government? As the predecessor said, the budget is not even similar, but much larger than the previous one in the new perspective, more than EUR 200 billion, this is the budget in the new perspective, and we have less in it. Well, that's surrender, that's really an assessment -- it's hard to say bad -- not enough. Disqualified, thank you, but we actually formally still have to wait until autumn. It's about the defense fund. You've done it nicely again, sir, that this is an unfinished task. But what is Poland's position in this area, the Polish government? What? It's not like you're taking a positive part in this decision. You're right next to it. Yeah, but the most important things are really about us. And when we talk about new budgets and tasks, it is a common agricultural policy. It is not only that there is less money for us, for our farmers, that Jarosław Kaczyński spoke about it, presenting challenges for you, ministers of his government: subsidies for Polish farmers will be like for farmers in the West. So let's remind you of Germany's one ha. Minister, 308. I don't require the same because I know it's hard to achieve. What is the EU average? 240. What have you negotiated in the new perspective by 2021? How much? 212.2 or 4 euros more than in those years, which you criticized at the entrance, i.e. in 2015. It's disqualified. Indeed, Polish farmers must get much more per hectare, but you, without the voice of a co-decidant, simply are not able to achieve this. Admit it, this is disqualifying. Jarosław Kaczyński said more. He said that if there were no subsidies at the same level, he would complain to the Court. Will you do it? The Minister will file this motion? Ask yourself a question. Increased competitiveness. This priority, which is linked to Austrian digitization, is very important because it is indeed a huge impulse, a pro-development economic stimulus. What are you guys up to? On digital tax, on tax instead of impulse, instead of strengthening competitiveness through incentives. After all, this is the opposite of what needs to be done. Where is the position of the Polish government in this case? And finally, the most important thing is Brexit. Minister, you said that as a government, we keep our hands on the table. Everything is happening outside of us, because we do not decide this when it comes to brextit, but there are Polish citizens. Where are the contracts that protect them? Where is the answer to the question about the hard brexite? Do Poland and Poles have guarantees regarding the protection of their rights when it comes to the fact that they are citizens of the European Union today? These are your allies, your closest partners: Brexitists, Conservatives, British. You guys talk about it all the time. Where is this special position of Poland in these relations? Finally, I'd like to say one thing. I don't like being too mean, but I have to say it. The Austrian Presidency is a terrible balance of the Polish government, but one plusy can be placed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You wanted to bring an Austrian businessman to Warsaw to the company Silver, but you didn't succeed either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u153	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. Excuse me, sir, before I ask the Member to speak, I would like to welcome the children and guardians of Elementary School No.1 in Brodnica. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u154	Thank you very much. High Izbo! This is a discussion on the report on participation in the Austrian Presidency, and I have the impression that we are discussing more effectively the effectiveness of the European Union's governments. This effectiveness can be misjudged, in some cases fatally, and in some cases good, as in the case of brexit negotiations. I think what we've been able to negotiate about brexitu is satisfactory. On the other hand, as far as the report is concerned, it is well prepared and describes the reality in substance. Of course, I could, like the opponents, pay attention to the ineffectiveness of agricultural policy when it comes to taking care of the Polish farmer, I could point out that there is little going on in defence, but this does not apply to this point. In conclusion, my short statement will be very brief, and I would like to say that this report is well done. I don't see any reason not to. At the same time, I note how many mistakes have been made in terms of ineffective policy, but this does not concern this last six months, the Austrian Presidency, but at all the foreign policy proposed by the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u155	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You presented the seventh, very optimistic image of the activity of the Republic of Poland, the government of the Republic of Poland in the European Union during the previous six months, i.e. during the Austrian Presidency. I'm gonna say it straight and straight: it's too optimistic. What you have said, presenting activity, and in particular the results of the activities of representatives of the Republic of Poland in the European forum, not only deviates from reality, but simply deviates from the document which became the Sejm, to us parliamentarians, presented in the form of what we are discussing, i.e. information about the activities of the government of the Republic of Poland within the European Union between July and December last year, i.e. during the Austrian Presidency. I will only mention a few aspects, quotations from this document, in order to illustrate my thesis and to make the Minister aware of how wrong you are, how far your speech is from what your ministry and your officials have been, quite frankly, written down in this document. Let us start with security, because the Austrian Presidency was under the heading: a Europe that protects. Security was a key issue on which the work of the Austrian Presidency was focused. What do we learn from the document presented to the High Sejm? The fact that, although most countries have come to an agreement on the draft regulation on preventing the dissemination of terrorist content on the Internet, a representative of the Republic of Poland, Poland is not satisfied with this agreement. Let us take another issue, which may be less important for the Presidency itself, but very important for the Republic of Poland, that is, the issue of European funds. As stated in the document, even though the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland - which is a fact, we have witnessed it, also listening to his speech during a press conference - he said that Poland believes that the budget should be bigger, more ambitious and that even the Republic of Poland is ready for a higher contribution, distribution, to a common EU budget, the effects of this policy and this attitude are reversed - the budget will be smaller, especially in these two key areas for the development of our country, i.e. cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. In short, it turns out that these 6 months from the point of view of the interests of the Republic of Poland, from the point of view of well understood interests of Poles and Poles were wasted by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. What's more, we had assurances not only in that six-month period, but also much earlier, that there will be no new regulation on the rules for spending, especially on cohesion policy, in connection with compliance with the rule of law, and it turns out that the draft regulation is the best regulation in the European Parliament. It also seems that the results, the effectiveness of the government led by Prime Minister Morawiecki, represented today in this debate by Minister Szymański, are not even minimal in this dimension, are zero. Another area, extremely important for entrepreneurs, but also for Polish workers, drivers in particular, i.e. mobility package, otherwise the rules to be covered by road transport, freight transport between countries of the European Union, in general within the European Union. What's written down in the information you sent us, Minister, or did the Ministry send us? It is written that the key work on solutions for reducing barriers to entrepreneurs and facilitating functioning in the single transport market from a Polish point of view is in the impasse. You spoke of extremely active, influential, listening to Poland during the Austrian Presidency. Once again, I am showing you, quoting the documents submitted to us, that reality is extremely different from what you would like to convince us to do here. Finally, it may be less important from the point of view of the interests of Poles, but important for our country, for the Republic of Poland. These are, for example, issues related to what you also mentioned in your speech, i.e. the balance in the external policy of the European Union between the southern direction and the eastern direction. It was indeed the summit of the Eastern Partnership Foreign Ministers during the Austrian Presidency. The results of the Eastern Partnership's implementation so far have been assessed. Well, but I would like to ask, where is the solemnly announced here in one of the first speeches by the Minister then still Waszczykowski a new project, a new initiative of the Republic of Poland, which would remodel relations between the European Union and the countries of the former Soviet Union invited to the Eastern Partnership. Because as you can see from this information which has been presented, such a document may only be proposed in cooperation between Poland and Sweden. So in this case too, if not two, it's a very weak three. I would be very interested in this, and I would also like you to say what this breakthrough compromise is about in the discussion of the European asylum system, the balance between responsibility and solidarity, because I understand that, as you said, the agreement has been reached on political intentions, but the legislative proposal for new solutions is not visible. And let me just remind you that we are still living in the regime of art. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 3, as I recall, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which makes it very clear: Where one or more Member States are in an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals, the European Council, on a proposal from the European Commission, may adopt provisional measures in favour of the State or States concerned and the Council shall act after consulting the European Parliament. So, if this mechanism was used in 2015 on the basis of the Treaty's basis, then, if we accept as a good coin what you declare here, will we see proposals to amend the Treaty? But I feel like we're not gonna see this coming. Finally, the last issue that prompts us, the Modern Club and the close formation of the European Union of Democrats, which I am an active member, to ask for the rejection of this information submitted by your government for a debate in the Sejm, is a complete omission of the question of the rule of law debate in Poland, which also took place in the European Union during those six months. I just want to remind you that the General Affairs Council, which you are a member of, has debated this twice, and once the information, in October, has turned into a debate about the state of the European Commission's complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union in October to challenge the scandalous law on the Supreme Court, and that this complaint is still being brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Finally, in this context, I would say to some grotesque information that a significant contribution to the debate on the future of the European Union was made by Prime Minister Morawiecki in Strasbourg in July in the European Parliament. I remember this debate, and I remember his frivolous, lying and outrageous arguments, and I remember, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it was a debate mainly about the state of the rule of law and the violation of the principles of independent judiciary in Poland. There is no mention of this in the information at all, which is why on behalf of the Modern Club I am applying for rejection of this report, and your speech can be called Austrian talk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Please, who of you and your fellow Members would like to come forward for the question? If nobody, I'm closing the list. The first Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute. [[One minute? One and a half minutes, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u158	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are actually on the eve of the great legal crisis that awaits us. On 19 March, a hearing will be held at the Court of Justice of the European Union on the revision of the rules on the National Courts of Justice. These are the questions of the Supreme Court as to whether the Supreme Court, in this state, can perform constitutional tasks to uphold the independence of the judiciary. But what happens, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo? On tomorrow, i.e. just before the Court of Justice of the European Union gives its ruling on this matter, the Constitutional Tribunal, whose composition and legality are very debatable. What is very important about this case? Namely, that the Ombudsman, who ends on 22 March the legal deadline for submitting his participation in the case before the Court [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, the Constitutional Tribunal will not be able to exercise its statutory powers, which will also mean that if there are two contradictory judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Polish courts will have to apply the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is very important information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you kindly. I would like to ask you about the incident you mentioned in the Azov Sea in the Kerchen Strait. The Russians explain their actions, their initiative, that wherever necessary, they will act in this form in defence of their own economic interests. Hence my question: Is Europe prepared in terms of Nord Stream 2 for this type of Russian Navy activity on the Baltic, including the threat of our territorial waters? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u161	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, you are preparing Poland for polexit, you want to get Poland out of the European Union. The Minister smiles, but even 3 years ago, tomorrow it will be, Minister Waszczykowski spoke about the fact that the strategic partner in the European Union for Poland is Britain. So where's Britain or how's this Brexit story gonna end? The British themselves don't know where it's gonna go. I wanted to ask you about the effectiveness, because there's a lot of PiS talking about that effectiveness here. Specifically, Minister, the government of the Civic Platform and PSL has negotiated the highest EU budget: 400 billion for development. What kind of budget are you gonna negotiate? We already hear you're going to fail, and if this failure happens, of course, who's to blame? You must be Prime Minister Tusk. In fact, farmers are losing it. You said that the farmers' budget, farmers' subsidies would be much higher. Why did you lie? [[♪ The bell ♪]] farmers during the election campaign, and when there are concrete actions, do you put up a white flag? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u164	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Minister, I would like to ask what has been done in this Presidency for Polish farmers. As we know, Polish agriculture is underfunded, there are protest actions. Farmers want them to be able to live better with their hard work on the ground, grow more and profit from their production, just as farmers in the Western countries have. There is always talk of support, and life shows that the support of Polish farmers is not improving. Our farmers are not treated equally with farmers from countries such as: Germany, France. I think Minister Ardanowski's announcements will work out and our farmers will feel the improvement of these conditions, that they will be co-financed and able to grow, enjoy their work and their income so that they do not live in contact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u165	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u166	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I participated in at least two preparations for the next financial perspectives and it wasn't as bad as it was now. Austrian Presidency and password: a Europe that protects. You don't protect your own market. I have no answer to the question of what Poland will look like after a hard brexita. Secondly, your promises and equal subsidies. What did you do? Because all we saw was that Minister Jurgiel slept here or criticized and did nothing in the European Union. So will it be true that, as President Kaczyński said, you will go to the TSUE with a complaint if the new perspective does not guarantee equal subsidies for Polish farmers? And the third case. We all remember this 400 billion PLN previous perspective. Please tell me at what stage you are here today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards quotas, the budget of the European Union. Where is the Minister at last? It's just that we don't have... The proposed introduction of a store tax - fiasco, electricity prices - unfortunately a fiasco, because it was necessary to agree, the law on aid to borrowers - I wrote to you on this matter and I do not receive any answers. Where are you just as a foreign ministry? The point is to tell the ministers they're wrong. Unfortunately, since the introduction of the law, you have suffered nothing but failure in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u167	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am interested in the aspect of the block on the regulation on the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, which, according to the information presented, contained a number of important elements for which the Member States presented different positions. In view of the essence of this block, I would like to ask in particular: Is it possible to find a common position and solution on these most disputed issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u169	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the most recent case. What will be the situation of Poles in the United Kingdom in the case of hard brixit? Did the government guarantee our citizens agreements to protect their interests? I'm not talking about talking to the Prime Minister, I'm talking about specifics. When will such agreements be concluded? Is the government going to wait for what the next few days will bring? Our countrymen are impatient and afraid of a situation that threatens them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u171	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you two questions. First thing. Two weeks ago, a conference took place in Jasionka near Rzeszow, a congress of European farmers attended by Czesław Siekierski, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in the European Parliament. Mr Hogan also attended the Congress, who is the head of the European Commission on agricultural matters. It's got some bad words in it. First of all, that Poland has wrongly used the funds that have been allocated so far. I'd like to ask if that's true, because if, as it's said, it's 29%, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I find it worrying that the European countries already have 50%. Second thing. What priorities will be in the future? Will Poland sign what is proposed? Because it was said to give more support to small, medium-sized farms, and that should be a priority today. I think it is very important from the Polish position. Does the government take any action in this regard? We'd like to hear it, because I'm sure...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u174	...the priorities must be set before negotiations begin. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u175	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you, Minister Konrad Szymański, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand the deep political rationale, particularly in the pre-election fever, for which the opposition is unable to accept in principle any information document from the government, but I must admit that in an excellent, overwhelming majority of speeches I have not heard any argument that would relate to the content of the document we have presented. I have heard things that I have heard for three years and which have a loose connection with Poland's policy in the European Union and the European Union itself. I have the impression that the great majority of people involved in this debate either read this document briefly, without understanding or ignored it at all. Otherwise, we would have avoided questions, e.g. about what is the Polish position on the European Defence Fund, because it so happened that the compromise on the European Defence Fund is generally created by the Polish administration. Moreover, also at parliamentary level, the rapporteur in this very important area - because we cannot rule out that in this budget line we will have a significant increase in money in the new financial perspective - there is a Polish Member of the European Parliament, Professor Zdzisław Krasnodębski So I do not understand the very basic questions relating to simple facts which could be read in the newspaper also on stubborn grounds. The same applies to the budget. I'm just gonna go with the facts. If you compare this budget with the previous budget - with this correction that we need to talk about the EU-27 and about fixed prices, because other comparisons in this long term of financial values make no sense - then we have an unprecedented situation where the European Commission is proposing a smaller budget. I do not know where it comes from to believe that this budget is even bigger in the Commission's version, and such words were said during this debate. As far as the taxation of the digital economy is concerned, we do not agree to tax the digital economy as we are actively seeking European rules on taxation of the digital economy, because tax revenues from this part of the economy, and it is growing, are distributed in the European Union in a grossly uneven, grossly unfair way. And let us remember that the value of this economy is created also in Poland. So to clarify: Poland does not agree so much as it promotes modern solutions in the field of taxation of the digital economy. Contrary to the great majority of the votes cast here in connection with the negotiations of the multiannual financial framework, the multiannual financial framework is not only not bigger in the Commission's version, but also, and this is probably the most important one, it is not accepted. The multiannual financial framework is a proposal from the European Commission, which is subject to negotiations between Heads of Government at European Council level in all these key areas. I can tell you one thing: this project will not pass. Poland will not support this project because it is not in line with Polish priorities. And here I will answer an important question, a valid question about Polish priorities. We are very clear about this in the budgetary debate. We do not rule out that the European Union can do more, it involves money, in areas such as defence or migration, but we do not have the consent to do so by simply shifting important values from cohesion policy and agricultural policy. Probably the first time in history the equivalent negotiating priority of the Polish government is not only cohesion, but also agriculture. This is the answer to your question about what is happening in the field of agriculture. There has been a clear promotion of this topic, this aspect of the European Union's budgetary policy, as regards the hierarchy of negotiating objectives on the Polish side. If you ask why we are dealing with an impasse, which is actually mentioned in the information, in an area such as transport mobility, then I will make it clear: the impasse is because of Poland, because Poland does not agree to regulations which are protectionist and discriminatory in relation to the Polish transport sector. I think that this impasse is justified because Poland is not ready to celebrate European unity when our interests are not respected. We value European unity, we are ready to build this European unity, but only if Polish interests are taken into account are we ready to defend it and maintain it. Otherwise, if the content, the content of this unity is created by someone else, please do not hope that Poland in blanco, blind, will support any solution that is sold to us under the flag, under the pretext of some imaginary European unity. Protectionism and the future of the common market are the most important part of the debate on the future of the European Union in the near future, and the state must accept that Poland is one of the most pro-European coalitions in the European Union on this particular issue, which is crucial for the future. It is elsewhere that you must find the answer to the question of why market legislation is not going in the European Union. In addition, you will find the answer to this question in these capitals, which you very often present as a role model, as supposedly pro-Europeanity. The mere fact that someone is waving the EU flag does not mean that it is very pro-European, because very many capitals that are willing to wave the European flag are trying to decompose the Community market, trying to promote the protectionist agenda simply because in some areas of the economy they have significant competitive weaknesses. The question was, what is the breakthrough in migration policy? It's a very important question, a very convenient question for me. Although I don't like to repeat the same thing seven times, I am forced to do so by this question. The breakthrough is that, contrary to your 2015 decisions, migration will not go away in the European Union. We fought for this for three years, it was very difficult because you have made a very bad precedent to use this article of the Treaty, but this is working. Moreover, contrary to your decisions, we have been fighting for three years to rebuild Poland's credibility in the region, because in order to meet other people's expectations, to meet the expectations of other capitals, you have decided to abandon the capitals of the region, which in some ways remember it, because it was a shocking experience which set the way to these wrong decisions, not so much wrong decisions for Poland, but we will manage, but these were wrong decisions for the European Union. These were decisions that burdened political dialogue, political confidence in the European Union for almost three years. This is how the policy of unconditional noding works, promoting in the dark everything that is wrapped in the EU flag under the slogan of EU unity. This brings no profit to Poland or the European Union. I do not understand what this type of policy is, in particular 15 years after obtaining membership. It's time to grow up. A mature country of the European Union does not act automatically, does not agree on request. A mature country of the European Union is trying to find good solutions for everyone - not only for itself but also for everyone. And that is the change in European policy today in Poland. To conclude - we can agree, I think that Europe is experiencing difficult times. And I think that we are all truly in pain because Europe is a very important dimension of our prosperity, and it is very important for our security. But this crisis cannot be discussed with occasional, anniversary speeches in honor, this crisis must be overcome by hard political work and finding a way to change the European Union's course so that it enjoys citizens' trust back. It is true that in Poland the European Union enjoys above-average trust and support, but I would like to make it equally clear that the law and justice are also part of this pro-European majority in Poland, and there is also a coalition ruling in Poland. This is due to ordinary arithmetic for the underbelievers, but for those who are interested, at least suggest that they are interested in European policy, it should be clear after reading not seven information on Polish policy during the next Presidency, but at least one of these documents. Then you will find the basis for this fundamental statement, which, in the case of those who declare their attachment to the European project, should be good news, and sometimes I feel that this message is one of the worst that can be heard in this Parliament. Yes, Law and Justice is part of the pro-European majority in Poland. This is reflected in the further information that I am presenting to you in this House. But of course, there's no point in covering up facts that are more difficult. Yes, there are issues difficult in relations between Warsaw and Brussels, there are cases not closed in relations between Warsaw and Brussels. But show me at least one country, one country that doesn't have things that aren't difficult, chronically difficult and unclosed. Tell me which country has such a comfortable situation that it never has to verify its validity at the Court of Justice of the European Union. The most complaints, if I remember correctly, are submitted by the European Commission to Spain, Italy, Germany. Does this mean that these countries are somehow overly anti-European? Please give up this childish rhetoric, because it does not really serve us - we will somehow manage - but it does not serve the public, which can, on the basis of such childish arguments, be very wrong to believe that there is no European consensus, consensus on the European Union, as to the sense of integration, in Poland. It's the other way around. Poland is one of the already few countries where there is a broad consensus on European integration. On the other hand, there is certainly no consensus, there is no agreement on how to exercise membership rights, how to use the rights of a Member State due to membership, how to answer the question of what this Union is for. Because the questions about whether we like the Union or not were good 20 years ago. These are the dilemmas of six-year-olds. Today, 15 years after becoming a member, it is worth asking ourselves what we need the European Union for, how it does our common interests, what the Union is useful in, and what it may not be, because it can happen... [[Oh, and we have the minister here.]] ...that the European Union does not make optimal decisions in all areas. I will give one example - an example of a case which is as old as Poland's membership in the European Union, so unfortunately you cannot reduce it to your favorite 3 years. It is the European Union's climate and energy policy. After all, everyone in this House remembers a time when it was necessary to reach for a veto, including those who today think that this is the worst thing that can happen, and not even talk about it or think about it, but in a dark room. After all, we all know that there are such elements, such aspects of relations between Warsaw and Brussels, and the climate is a very good example here, where we have a chronic failure to adapt EU funds to Polish realities. That is why we continue this dispute, this very crucial dispute about the principles of industrial policy in Poland, about the Polish development strategy, so that we can make these decisions in the country, also decisions about energy transformation. Nobody says she's not needed, but she can't be dictated from the outside because she'll be cut off from the country's development interests. And that's why some of these things stay between us. The European Union has many different trust crises. One is linked to the euro area debt crisis, the other to migration. I wanted to make it very clear and I think that a moment of reflection will allow you to understand and share this belief: None of the key crises of the European Union has its source in Warsaw. Warsaw is part of the solution to European problems, as in the case of migration correction, and not the source of the problems that the European Union unfortunately has to deal with. The new European consensus we are calling for should be based on the revival of the common market, on a new migration compromise excluding any migration compulsion, on a defence policy in line with NATO and perhaps on a new industrial policy if we find a place for our economy in all the instruments that today are under intense discussion at European Council level. Poland is part of this plan. And what's more - even if someone wanted to, and frankly, I do not notice that intention - without Poland, the European Union will not be able to heal or reform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at second reading? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. I propose that the Sejm listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u178	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Well, despite your great efforts to forge a true picture of the situation you are taking - not for the first time in this Chamber, but today it was in your final speech so, I would say, painfully visible - I want to tell you one thing. Of course, there are many countries in the Court of Justice of the European Union having a dispute with the European Commission on the implementation of individual sectoral, specific directives and regulations. But there is no country that would be covered by the Article procedure. 7, i.e. political punishment for violating the fundamentals of art. 2 values underlying the European Union, which are primarily the rule of law. There's no other country like this. And this procedure has been going on, for years, despite your attempts to disappoint you, the Prime Minister, in particular, in the European Parliament, the incompetent misrepresentation of the truth about this conflict, about this dispute - it has not been withdrawn, on the contrary, because another complaint has already been brought before the Court of Justice about the fact that, in breach of the principle of judicial independence, the European Commission is asking the Court of Justice to block the fatal law reforming the Supreme Court. If you don't see the difference, I'm afraid you don't see the reality. But if you do not want to see this difference in a fair debate in the Seym, then this debate becomes dishonest. And now I'm going to tell you, by making further arguments, why it is. You say that the PiS is on the side of the EU majority and that it cannot be falsified. But it's not from other sides, maybe not from other major political backgrounds, I'm skipping marginal, national, there's been voices about an imaginary community that doesn't show anything. It seems the President of PiS-owski, not the Platform or the SLD, has made these shameful, outrageous, unwise words. It was nobody else, only your long-standing, multi-cadence Member who spoke about the EU rag, talking about the flag of the European Union, which is close to many Poles and protected by the treaty negotiated by your President Lech Kaczyński. Finally, it was not the imaginary government, but yours, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, in December last year, i.e. during the Austrian Presidency, that the European Commission sent a letter asking: Why are you opening up new investments, all kinds of: road, cultural, concealing that there is financial resources from the European Union? Why are you hiding this? You have a duty to this, not to mention decency. You have a duty. The last issue is the constant repetition of the same slogans: there has been a breakthrough, the European Union has understood the Polish arguments. So I'm asking you, Minister, where? I'd like you to introduce me to this breakthrough. It's not that you have the impression that such a breakthrough has occurred, it's where he is, what form he's in. Where are the conclusions? Where's the legislative proposal? I summoned you, and once again I summon you, Art. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 3 of the Treaty, which makes it clear that, in a situation such as the one that took place in summer 2015, when a massive wave of refugees came to Greece, including Italy, but in particular Greece, the State has the right to request emergency measures and decisions on these measures are taken on a majority rather than on a unanimous basis. As you will present to me at least the draft, the outline of another treaty solution, not an agreement - it is not about patting on the back and saying: well, well, we understand your objections - as I see it, I will admit that you are right. For the time being, I only hear about the groundbreaking, fundamental, wonderful granting of the right to Poland, only that I can hear it only here, in this House, or in the committee, and only from the mouth of the politicians of Law and Justice. I haven't heard anyone admit that such a fundamental, fundamental thing is happening. I would like to believe you - but using these first two arguments, I am unable to believe that something like this has happened. I therefore once again present on behalf of the club a modern amendment to the resolution on the adoption of this information. No, we propose not to take this information, among others. because it skips this [[♪ The bell ♪]] the fundamental issue of the dispute between the European Union and Poland on the rule of law, Article. 7 and Article 7 2nd treaty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, it is not enough to say that Poland is not a source of problems. It is not enough to say that Poland will not accept this budget. This needs to be properly justified. You said that as Poland, we are in favour of taxing at European level when it comes to global services, but you have not said a word about other income. Please tell us what is the position of Poland, e.g. on the 20% emission levy for this to be part of the European budget. What is Poland's position that the plastic charge should also be part of the European budget? What is the position of Poland and how are you looking for allies to increase funds for cohesion policy? Let me remind you, 46%. The Cohesion Fund is reduced by 46%. It's in this budget. It's in this committee. [[In your committee.]] That's an extra question. Is it true that Prime Minister Morawiecki proposed to raise the national rate by 20% or 25%? What is Poland's idea of a new European budget? It's not art to deny everything, it's the easiest, but show me the solutions. How do you want to keep the resources for the common agricultural policy and the Cohesion Fund at a level, I believe, because this is how I interpret the Minister's statement, 70% , what are we going to finance migration policy from, what are we going to finance a new instrument in the form of defence policy, what, as we hear, the Polish government supports? The point is not to use this PiS rhetoric, not to say no, we won't agree, because we've been hearing it for three years. You are getting up from your knees, although you are lying on your shoulders at the moment, but we are interested in the justification of the Polish position, showing what are the prospects of our proposals... I guess they're just gone, but if they were. How do we look for coalitioners, allies, who do we work with in this area? Every solution you propose ends with a result of 27 to 1. Let me remind you that two years ago, that was the result of the vote. I think we were celebrating our anniversary last week. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u181	Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u182	Two words of explanation, because there were at least two specific questions. Where is the breakthrough in migration policy? In its conclusions of June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 on the We have talked about them many times here and in committees. Just read it. It's a short five-page document, I think. Other sources of funding. We do not exclude the discussion about the European Union's own resources, because we note that if someone wants to finance new policies, they must indicate some new sources. However, it will certainly not be the Commission's proposals for the so-called. plastic tax or climate tax proposals, because as far as these sources and the European Union's own resources are concerned, this would mean a very uneven distribution of tax burden between Member States, leading to less developed countries paying more to the EU budget. In this sense, the Commission's proposal in this area is also frivolous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u183	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Restructuring (Prints No. 2089 and 3226). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Restructuring. The Commission of Justice, after first reading and considering this project on 24 January 2018 and 20 February 2019, requests the adoption of a law in accordance with the attached report and on the basis of Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit four minority applications at the request of the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Justice Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Bankruptcy Law and the Restructuring Law. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that the Act concerns the clarification of the functioning of restructuring advisers and the enhancement of competences and standards in the performance of these functions. As a function of public trust, it must be performed professionally and the State must ensure that the level of rigors involved in the performance of that function is appropriate. Of course, the direction in which the Law aims to clarify the powers of the Minister of Justice in the field of supervision of the profession is as optimal as possible. In situations where there are doubts about the functioning of advisers, the Ministry and the Minister should have the tools to intervene and be able to take effective action. For this reason, of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the law and will be in favour of further proceding this law as presented by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. On the other hand, I would also like to make one amendment on behalf of the parliamentary club, which concerns the technical, but also the issue raised by the environmental advisors regarding the definition of specific competences or qualities which qualify for the presentation or qualification of a qualified restructuring adviser. The point is to clarify that it is two reminders and more over the last two years that constitute an obstacle to obtaining the title of qualified adviser, as well as to indicate that one fine and more within 7 years is an obstacle to obtaining these powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. And please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor refers to more than 1100 restructuring advisors who act as syndicates, supervisors or managers in insolvency proceedings. They conduct their activities throughout the country under the supervision of the relevant courts. This law introduces the supervision of the Minister of Justice of the restructuring advisors in addition to judicial supervision. The Minister of Justice under this law will now be able to request all the documentation produced by the restructuring adviser, will have access to the files completed or to the files of pending proceedings, access to any commercial accounts of traders against whom restructuring or insolvency proceedings have ever been conducted. In addition, it will have the possibility to suspend or revoke the licence of the restructuring adviser. It seems that this far-reaching interference of the Minister of Justice in the restructuring and bankruptcy activities exceeds the real possibilities of the Ministry. Somehow I don't really imagine what a great service a resort would have to have in order to run all this, since it's 1,100, over 1,100 of these advisors across the country, and the Ministry's justification for this law has, for example. examine whether the activities undertaken by the advisors are taking place quickly enough: whether there are delays there or whether there is any loss for this reason. How can you study 1,100 advisors throughout the country and all their activities, whether they are delayed or not delayed? This is some unreal thing. Secondly, we come across the issue of constitutional compatibility, because the constitution in 45 Art. It is clear that every citizen has the right to review his case by an independent, impartial and independent court. In the meantime, here, the Minister of Justice is involved in the case, which is given quite large powers. The prosecutor will have the power to request the cancellation of the restructuring adviser. Finally, another thing that raises concern is that the Act states that the Minister will not interfere in these matters, in these activities, in those activities which the restructuring advisors, the syndicate, the insolvency manager has ordered the court to do, but that he will not interfere in these matters, in those activities which have been commissioned by the creditors' board or by the creditors' assembly. However, the entire restructuring or insolvency proceedings aim to maximise the recovery of what creditors lose from the debtor insolvent. And their decisions can also be challenged by the court, but only if they are against the law. If there are discrepancies between creditors and one of them brings the case before the court, then the judge can settle such contradictions, but if they are legal decisions, they are not contested, then the restructuring adviser must execute the decision of creditors, the board of creditors or the assembly of creditors. Here, the bill doesn't say anything about the minister having to comply with it. It must comply with the court's orders, but it no longer needs to comply with decisions taken by creditors who are, after all, the group most interested in the successful outcome of such proceedings. Therefore, there are significant doubts as to why there is such a great extension of the Ministry's powers to another area where, in fact, without sufficient apparatus, the Minister will be able to intervene very far, suspend or withdraw the powers, the licence of restructuring advisers. Isn't this another area where the government of the Ministry of Justice is expanding without a substantive, sufficient justification? There are important constitutional doubts as to whether he has the right to such a thing. The purpose of this law, which serves to justify it, namely speeding up or avoiding errors, is rather not gaining much, but is gaining the authority of the minister, who will be able to use this power in a much wider way than before. Actually, we have a very... We have tabled some amendments to this bill. One of them - even I see that the PiS has also ascribed to this amendment - is saying that it is only twice the warning that it is impossible to obtain a title [[♪ The bell ♪]] a qualified restructuring adviser. Nevertheless, despite these amendments, the club still leaves time to think about whether to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the law on the license of restructuring advisors, bankruptcy law and the law on restructuring, seym prints no. 2089 and 3226. This draft amendment to the Law on the License of the Restructuring Advisor assumes that the activities of the advisors are to be supervised by the Minister of Justice. The aim of the project developers is to strengthen the supervision of the activities of the advisors, as well as to increase the transparency of the system, their appointment and the delegation of matters of importance to the economic security and defence of the State to those with the highest qualifications and extensive experience in the conduct of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. Following the adoption of the proposed law, the Minister of Justice will supervise persons licensed as restructuring advisers independently of judicial supervision. Such supervision shall not relate to the assessment of the activities carried out directly on request, with the permission or agreement of the Commissioner or of the Judge. Under the new provisions, the Minister of Justice will be able to suspend or revoke an advisory licence which has persistently or grossly infringed the law in the performance of its activities. However, this will require a prior hearing of the adviser and, if necessary or at the request of the adviser, to conduct a visit or to illustrate his activities. To this end, the Minister of Justice will be able to request access to the source documents and compare their content with the documentation submitted by the restructuring adviser to the file on restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. The refusal to provide documentation will be punishable by a fine. The new rules will introduce general criteria to be followed by a court, setting up a restructuring adviser to act, e.g. a syndicate in specific court proceedings. In such a case, the court must take into account the number of cases that the advisor is currently pursuing. In addition, the court should take into account the experience and additional qualifications of the potential candidate to perform the function in question. Information on the number of cases conducted by advisers will be available on the Minister of Justice's website. It was assumed that as far as the groups of licensed advisers are concerned, qualified restructuring advisers will be selected, who, apart from the licence, will have extensive professional experience to deal with complex restructuring and bankruptcy procedures. The acquisition of the title of qualified advisor will require documentation of bankruptcy proceedings and arrangement proceedings carried out. The title of qualified restructuring adviser will be awarded to the Minister of Justice on the basis of the criteria set out in the Act. High Izbo! The current licensing system allows for the admission to the profession of advisors of persons who are well aware of the applicable insolvency and restructuring legislation, but does not guarantee the smooth conduct of proceedings concerning a large business complex entity, for example because of the lack of a requirement to demonstrate targeted experience in obtaining licences. In addition, the existing arrangements do not actually contain criteria for the designation of restructuring advisers by the courts, except where the relevant group of creditors has at least 30% of their activity. the creditors' board shall take a decision or a resolution accordingly. This may have particularly negative consequences in the event of bankruptcy or the need for restructuring of an entrepreneur of particular importance for the security of the state or citizens, the national economy and the labour market. So there is no doubt that there is a need for change in this area, but it is born, High Izbo, the question of whether the right path for the next professional groups is to centralise their control, subjecting them to influence at this moment - I think it is possible to say - the superministership, which is increasingly becoming the Ministry of Justice. The Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Members' Club makes the support of this project conditional on further work and amendments [[♪ The bell ♪]] Reported to him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u191	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on printing No. 2089 and the subsequent report of the committee. It is a government bill amending the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Act of Insolvency and the Law of Restructuring. To be honest, I was just wondering what state we've been in for the last three years, that is, how many countries we have in the country. There used to be this question in the movie, "Wanted, wanted," how much sugar is in the sugar. I think we've come to a situation where we have 120%. countries in the country. The state is trying to take over everything, decide everything, control everything. This is another law that increases the powers of the Minister of Justice. I can honestly say that if we look at the actions of the Minister of Justice of the Attorney General when it comes to his influence on the justice system, on how he controls manually, how he can control prosecutors - the insubordinate are degraded, transferred to the prosecution of the lower court - how he punishes insubordinate judges by reporting their cases to the spokesperson of discipline, it causes huge reservations. to agree that restructuring advisers should be subject to the control of the Minister of Justice. This review has so far been the responsibility of the courts. And it seems that independent courts, judges could assess the efficiency of these advisers and the efficiency of the entire insolvency proceedings in general. Therefore, we do not see the need for such a far - reaching change. However, as regards a number of changes that define the scope of the advisers and provide for the introduction of an additional qualified restructuring adviser, it could be considered. The point is, is it really not so that those most experienced who have conducted any of these proceedings can get that degree. But we have read what the Minister of Justice might ask to do by supervising the activities of these advisers, and I can honestly say that since he can still check back all the already closed restructuring proceedings, download documentation, I wonder if it is not so that you will retreat and check the processes that have already been closed. Here, too, I'm going to say that it's a one-man decision by the Minister to take away someone's advisor's license, so the question is what's the appeal procedure against such a decision. There are grounds for that, under which conditions such a licence may be taken, but I will admit honestly, knowing the Minister's actions, that I think it may be his personal decision, which may not always be consistent with those laid down in that law. In conclusion, I can say that we are opposed to arming Mr Zbigniew Ziobra with additional powers and that the Minister of Justice of the Attorney General should take additional supervision of the next professional group. Of course, we will continue to look at the work that will take place on this law in committee, and only after further work has been examined and some amendments may be adopted will the club decide whether it will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Restructuring is another important step towards improving existing law. Since 2016, the number of recovery proceedings has increased fourfold, and Polish entrepreneurs threatened with bankruptcy are increasingly benefiting from the assistance of professional advisors. The participation of licensed advisers in court proceedings significantly increases the level of security of creditors through the supervision of the debtor by the State. Nevertheless, despite these positive changes, the proposed amendment does not address all the problems and issues raised which need to be improved. Change remains a pressing issue [[♪ The bell ♪]] the organisation of bankruptcy departments, as well as the increase in the number of posts. Another desirable change would be to separate consumer bankruptcy from business restructuring and bankruptcy. Therefore, I am directing the question. When is action planned to further improve the restructuring and insolvency laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u195	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u196	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You've written a recipe, you've given the Minister of Justice additional authority. I wonder how much the Minister of Justice has to count 24 hours so that he can read all the bankruptcy files on his own and that they can be brought back. Secondly, if you submit further matters to the Minister of Justice in this regard, he will not deal with any matter properly, as has so far been seen. As far as the current rules on insolvency and resolution and restructuring are concerned, unfortunately, my opinion is that this will not result in facilitation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I would like to ask one simple question: How much will this reduce, in your opinion - and we will check - the ongoing insolvency proceedings? I work with courts many times, I know these cases, I am on the board of creditors, and I know how difficult this procedure is. This provision will only provide an additional allowance to the Minister, allow for the removal of powers, and nothing in the insolvency process will improve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u197	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask what is the point of the far-reaching oversight of the Minister of Justice of the activities of persons holding a restructuring adviser's licence. Why would a minister need such far-reaching powers? I mean, counsellors are subject to courts. If we read the article. 5, which states that within one month of the date of entry into force of the Act, a person holding a licence must communicate to the Minister an e-mail address, a list of restructuring and bankruptcy cases, as well as lists of signatures and the names of the courts, the question arises, why all of this. It just seems like some kind of big bureaucracy. It is an illusion that the Minister will not interfere with the legitimacy of the decisions of the courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u199	Thank you very much, Member. [[Let's hear it.]] [[Thank you so much.]] Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In order to improve the work on restructuring and bankruptcy, it would be necessary to increase, perhaps, the cast, the provision of training, the number of administrative staff in the courts involved in this, so that they are better prepared for this. This would not raise constitutional doubts and would actually lead to improvements. However, what you are proposing to control from Warsaw is more than a thousand restructuring advisors, to download all files to Warsaw and thus improve this work, is an act in the opposite direction, i.e. will increase bureaucracy, uncertainty and will not improve the professionalism of the preparation of staff in the judicial departments that deal with this throughout the country. Did you consider another option, namely to strengthen these departments so that they could do better than make them some kind of control hat from Warsaw? Has the other option of improving insolvency and restructuring processes been considered at all? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments introduced by the Act of 15 May 2015 led to a significant increase in the number of pending insolvency proceedings, preceded by the amendment of the provisions on consumer bankruptcy of 2014. Will the regulations introduced in this Act increase the effectiveness of business restructuring and thus help to avoid bankruptcy wherever business continues to be justified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u203	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. First question. If you think that something was wrong, that there were irregularities, and that's why you have to carry out additional supervision of advisors, then please give examples of how many irregularities there were, to what extent they were involved, because such a saying that something was working wrong and that's why you have to step in... Unfortunately, I don't believe you at your word. Second question. Are you aware that without laying down the rules for the transfer of this information and documents to the Minister of Justice, you may, for a good cause, be able to block any restructuring process, because it is enough for him to demand documents and later said that he did not have time to read them. Therefore, in the Ministry of Justice they will lie down for months and the restructuring process will simply be blocked. This is irresponsible action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u206	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking a brief question to the applicant's representative. When this project was created, was another model of transferring this increased supervision of valuers, advisors to another entity considered? Not to the Ministry of Justice, which has more powers today and is entering the next spheres. Was that even considered? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u207	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u208	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The vast majority of questions concerned the supervision of the Minister of Justice. I can calm you all down and dispel your concerns. The provisions on this matter shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. [[Applause]] [[It's not like you're gonna be in charge anymore, bravo.]] So I would suggest that you read the bill to the end, not just selectively. All changes have such a period of vacathio legis to adapt the system, infrastructure to new solutions. We wish that we continue to be able to carry out this supervision in the name of transparency, transparency and protection of the interests of both debtors and creditors. How's it looking today? Thank you very much, Mrs Navel. You have noted the advantages of this project: improving the system and increasing the level of bankruptcy. Thank you so much for this speech. It is extremely valuable and I see that, as one of the few, you have read the law thoroughly. Mrs. Member! Bankruptcy is what we're doing in the Consumer Bankruptcy Act right now. The Member asks about her schedule. I'll tell you what. I would like it to be on 28 March on the permanent committee of the Council of Ministers. At the moment, it is in the process of consulting, which will soon be over. Consumer bankruptcy issues will also be regulated there, including business issues. In answer to Mr Jarosław Gonciusz's question, I kindly inform you that issues relating to consumer bankruptcy, bankruptcy related to the improvement of the situation of entrepreneurs are included directly in that project. I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this in this Chamber in April or May, after the adoption of the draft by the Council of Ministers. Mrs Skowrońska asked about the question of the creditors' board. As far as her decisions are concerned, absolutely none of them will be questioned. On the other hand, with regard to Mr Święcicki's statement on interference in the implementation by the creditors' board of recommendations by the Commissioner, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the creditors' board is not an independent body. The Minister of Justice shall not in any way serve or replace the Judge of the Commissioner. The Member himself pointed out that the creditors' board is a factor involved in the procedure and interested in its outcome. It is one of the parties that has an important interest in ensuring that the proceedings end in this way and not in any other way than in another direction. So absolutely no independence has been granted to this council. Mrs Czernow asked about issues relating to restructuring advisers and how many complaints of this kind affected the ministry. I can assure you, too, Mr Meysztowicz, that a huge number of complaints have been received. Many times you have told us that the current system is inefficient, inefficient and often the judges themselves point out that they need new tools. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice shall grant a licence to the restructuring adviser. At present, it has no control over its proper implementation and the legality of the decisions taken by the restructuring adviser. Therefore, rights such as suspension or withdrawal of a licence are limited only to a situation of gross or persistent infringement. So that the Minister absolutely does not serve the courts or replace the judges. The project primarily serves to help judges themselves who today do not have the instruments to effectively control these procedures. I'll give you an example of difficult, complicated things. The judges do not see how the restructuring advisors concerned are burdened with specific matters. You can't see that. The system is completely non-transparent. What we are introducing will actually allow for a better distribution of cases and a split of different kinds of clicks. It will limit situations in which the restructuring advisors concerned receive the same persons, the same cases all the time, and the judge does not see it. A counselor who already has a lot of cases and doesn't work with them, admits another one, and people who don't have any cases get no new ones. The award of cases shall take place in a non-transparent manner. There is no way to control who or why gets a specific case. The system that functions today is calling for vengeance to heaven. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer again to Mrs Navel. Thank you so much for seeing this. So that it will be transparent and objective. Finally, the creditor, the debtor and everyone interested in the case will know why such a syndicate, not another, gets a given case on the basis of which it receives it and how it carries out its activities. If he does not perform them properly, legally and fairly, there will be consequences for him. I would like to point out that the project has been consulted with representatives of restructuring advisers from other countries. The project is the result of many study battles, among others. in the UK. It refers to the UK's best standards, where they are controlled by government and state. Mr Meysztowicz asked: How many countries in the country? Yes, we must finally ensure that you have proper control over these proceedings in order to protect the interests of citizens. They're being sent to Berdych today, they can write complaints. There's a lot of complaints coming to us. You also often send them to us. There is no control system. What is is non-transparent and non-obvious. Fish are good in muddy water, aren't they? What we propose refers to the best standards in other Western European countries. France, Germany, Great Britain are the countries from which we drew these patterns. And one last question. Was there any other model considered? This model, which we are introducing, is dominant in Western European countries, which is why we have adopted a proven model. Why come up with something new when it already exists in other legal systems? This is why we decided to bet on this kind of solution. As for the number of restructuring advisors - agreed, there are more than 1,000 of them, but their actions effectively performs approx. 300. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Code of Penalty (Prints No. 2878 and 3250). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Penal Code in print No 2878. It is, generally speaking, a law on imposing penalties for shifting counters in vehicles, in cars. The phenomenon of unauthorised interference in the indication of the vehicle's mileage counter includes motor vehicles and is aimed at obtaining an unauthorised advantage by the seller of the vehicle. This was already presented during the first reading of the government presentation. It is worth recalling some key information accompanying this comprehensive regulation prepared by the Ministry of Justice. This law, as I mentioned, amends the Road Traffic Law and the Penal Code. Statistics show that the number of cars with this so-called. The curved meter is about 240 thousand, or more than 1.2%. all cars in Poland. Some data indicate that there are many more. In view of the elimination of this undoubtedly pathological phenomenon, regulation is proposed which is intended to effectively prevent unauthorised interference with the mileage. Here I would also like to recall the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and trailers. This regulation is a European context. Compared to the existing footnotes of the Road Traffic Law and the Penal Code, the draft provides for transitional provisions for implementing acts based on this regulation, and the proposed amendment is primarily intended to guarantee the certainty of trade and prevent unfair practices of at least some persons selling motor vehicles. The aim of the amendments is to eliminate the practice of offering services for the under-seeking of road signs in a mechanical vehicle. As I said, these changes are being implemented into the Road Traffic Law. Some of the proposed amendments create new administrative and legal obligations, which are addressed not only to motor vehicle owners, but also to public authorities and services whose tasks will be extended to prevent and prevent manipulations in road signs. In this part, the project introduces a new sanctioning form in addition to the current state, which allows for the replacement of the roadmeter only if the roadmeter does not measure the course of the vehicle in a situation where, due to its intended purpose, it should measure this course, or where it is necessary to replace the element inherent in the roadmeter. In other words, this amendment, as a rule, prohibits the replacement of a roadmeter. The only possible situations are, I would say, exceptions to this principle, namely the damage to the meter, which prevents its further correct operation, or the need to replace the vehicle element. This design shall also regulate the behaviour of the owner of the motor vehicle or its holder in such a way that it is to be submitted within 10 days of the date of replacement by the new roadmeter together with the unit of measurement for reading the indication. The project creates not only obligations to owners and owners, but also, as I mentioned, to other entities. In particular, it is appropriate to indicate here the vehicle inspection stations and those employed in those stations of authorised diagnostics. These new tasks, which include the adopted regulation, are the following: firstly, the acceptance of the toll and the registration fee for the operation, fourth, the transmission to the central register of vehicles of the date, the reason for the replacement of the toll and the indication of the toll, together with the unit of measurement in the case of a vehicle not registered in Poland, and in the event of difficulties which I have already mentioned in the reading of the indication of the tollmeter, can be carried out after presentation of the opinion of the car assessor including a finding which could not be carried out in a precise manner by a diagnosis. As regards the rules in the Penal Code, which I have already mentioned here, this part of the amendment includes the Penalisation of certain behaviours aimed at unauthorised and unjustified interference in the indication of a roadmeter which have been found to require criminalisation due to their considerable degree of criminality. Here's a revision of one of the criminal code laws. The amendments proposed in this section provide for the criminalisation of acts which, firstly, consist in changing the indications of the mechanical vehicle, secondly, interfering in the correctness of the measurement of that roadmeter, thirdly, by ordering another person to modify the indications of the mechanical vehicle or interference in the correctness of the measurement of such a roadmeter. In conclusion, I would first of all like to thank the Ministry of Justice once again for piloting this important government initiative, which is a very concrete response to this margin, which is an undoubted path that worsens legal certainty and is accompanied by unauthorised interference with motor vehicles, which involves making changes to the meter indications. Secondly, this regulation corresponds to European legislation, I mentioned here the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. It can be said in a very general way that, following the introduction of this regulation, the issue of unauthorised interference which has been carried out in an unlawful manner, firstly, will be pursued more effectively in the Penal Code, and secondly, certainly such a situation will constitute an important legal defect, in general, preventing the proper registration of the vehicle from being properly registered in the event of its sale. I would also like to thank all parliamentary clubs for their active work on this report. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Legislative Office. So much for me, Marshal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Peter King, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am undoubtedly honored on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position with regard to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Traffic Law and the Penal Code Act, respectively, in prints No. 2878 and 3250. I'd like to start with one word that I think should sound here, which is finally. Finally, the so-called. Turning counters in vehicles will be illegal in Poland. This phenomenon of unauthorised interference in the indication of the vehicle mileage counter includes motor vehicles and is aimed at achieving an unauthorised asset benefit by the seller of the vehicle as a result of misleading the buyer as to the technical condition of the vehicle sold. The state of the vehicle's conduct directly reflects its market value. Interestingly, the respect given by the Central Computer Science Center shows that as much as 20% vehicles moving on roads in Poland may be affected by the phenomenon of turning counters. Therefore, bearing in mind that this phenomenon affects safety and that it is cheating people who buy such vehicles, the aim of this project is to eliminate this pathological phenomenon. The regulation that we are talking about today is designed to prevent, and in any case significantly impede, this practice and cause it to be a violation of the law, which is intended to hinder and prevent unauthorised interference in the course of the road map. Now a few words about the change in the law on traffic. This change creates new administrative and legal obligations, addressed not only to owners and holders of motor vehicles, but also to public authorities and services whose tasks will be extended to prevent and prevent manipulations in the direction of the road map. It should be pointed out that a new sanctioning form is introduced allowing for the replacement of the road-meter only if the road-meter does not measure the course of the vehicle in a situation where, due to its intended purpose, it should measure this course, or where it is necessary to replace the element inherent in the road-meter. In other words, this amendment, as a rule, prohibits the replacement of a roadmeter. The only situations which constitute an exception are then agreed to such an exchange, there will be a situation where this tracker will be damaged and its further operation will be prevented or there will be a need for replacement of the vehicle component, and with it it it is the roadmeter. The design shall also require the owner or holder of the vehicle to present it at any vehicle inspection station within 10 days from the date of replacement of the roadmeter to read the indication of the newly mentioned road-meter together with the unit of measurement. In view of the fact that the transmission by the vehicle inspection station of data on the date and reason of the toll exchange and its indication at the time of the check will be linked to the prior transmission of the specific activities of these stations, as in the case of the issue of vehicle cards or the performance of technical tests of the vehicle, the operations related to the reading of the indications of the new roadmeter will be subject to the fee and registration fee intended, inter alia. to finance expenditure related to the operation of the central vehicle register and the central driver register. The date and reason for the replacement will be determined by an authorised diagnostic. And those most important changes that are already taking place on the side of the Penal Code, the second part of the amendment. It includes the Penalisation of certain behaviours aimed at unauthorised and unjustified interference in the indication of a road map which have been considered to require its recognition as a breach of the law due to the significant degree of criminality. These proposed legislative amendments provide for the following situations to be considered as a breach of the law: firstly, changes in the indications of the mechanical vehicle, secondly, interference in the correctness of the measurement of the mechanical vehicle and, thirdly, ordering another person to change the indications of the mechanical vehicle or to interfere in the correct measurement of such a roadmeter. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we will actually support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition I am pleased to present the position of the club on the draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law Act and the Penal Code Act. This project solves, at least it helps to solve a problem that for many years both car owners and car buyers, as well as institutions that are reported to be interfering with the state of the car counter. Although the number of about 240 thousand is given. cases of such interference, but it is probably much more, because not all situations are reported. Nevertheless, this is a very serious scale. It is also a stretching in many cases of the buyer, exposing him to losses which are due to the fact that the indication of the counter according to which the technical condition of the vehicle can be assessed is different from the actual mileage. The rapporteur discussed this proposal in detail. The draft contains regulations that concern both the procedure itself and the circumstances in which the counter may be mentioned. I will not repeat this, but indeed the issue of interference with the state of the counter is a matter which is subject to criminalisation according to the Penal Code. As colleagues have already said, this applies to three cases: changes in the indication of a mechanical vehicle, interference in the correct measurement of a mechanical vehicle, ordering another person to change the indication of a mechanical vehicle, or interference in the correctness of the measurement of such a roadmeter. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will support this project, although it has some comments, because there are lapsuses here. There is, for example. such an indication that the diagnosis will determine the date and reason for the replacement of the road-meter, and at the same time it is said that it will do so on the basis of the owner's statement. Well, he doesn't say, because he only reads what the owner gives and, of course, passes it on. But these are not the things that would disqualify this project, which is why the parliamentary club will support this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, of course, is needed, Kukiz will support it, but it is not perfect, as was mentioned during the committee's work. Problems, comments were also made by the social side, so we will allow two amendments to be tabled on its behalf. The first amendment is to disable antique vehicles from the act, because, as we know, there may be a problem here with meters. Often these counters don't just have enough rubies to make a few hundred thousand kilometers, and these counters naturally have to be zeroed. It should only be provided with information to the office that such a counter has been zeroed and the owners of these vehicles should be in our opinion - and in the opinion of the social side, what was reported - excluded from the act. In the second amendment, we note that, as it was initially presented, the citizen states the state of the counter and gives information to the diagnostic station. If the citizen is doing this, why involve diagnostic stations in this whole process, why add additional responsibilities to them - it is enough that the citizen makes such a statement in the communication department, and whether he is telling the truth or not, it will be verified at the nearest inspection at the diagnostic station, which every year the vehicle of each of us passes. So I allow myself to make these amendments. I hope the committee leans over them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u217	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u218	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to inform you that we will support the government project, which is included in prints no. 2878 and 3250. As the rapporteur and my previous speakers put it, the solutions contained in this proposal offer a real opportunity to deal with the issue that exists and operates, it can be said, in economic life, that is, car traffic for many years. An estimate of this size between 15 and 25% , on average we can accept 20%, raises doubts and concerns, undoubtedly affects the technical state of the moving vehicles and is often the reason for making purchases-sales transactions with excessive values. This threatens the good situation in the trade in this equipment, i.e. used cars, devices or machines which also have such devices for measuring, indicating the course. The project in several elements or parts speaks of the obligations of the owner of the vehicle. I am convinced that in a clear and understandable way. If someone's looking for a way around it, they'll still be able to find something to explain it in a logical way. In my opinion, in a clear and logical way, the design identifies and indicates situations in which the counter should or may be replaced. The project also tells us what further steps need to be taken when it comes to recording and reporting at the diagnostic station. In its part, the project also talks about legal regulations, the possibility of conflicting with the law and threatening financial penalties in relation to such situations, if any. As I said at the outset, our club will support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Traffic Law and the Penal Code Act, print no. 2878 and 380. High Izbo! The bill deals with an extremely important problem from the point of view of the citizen, which is to change the indication of the road-meter or even to change the road-meter itself in order to forge the true course of the vehicle. Unfortunately, this has become a common practice, extremely burdensome for people who want to buy a car. As a result, it's hard to have ensure that the indication of the track gauge reflects the actual mileage of the vehicle. Therefore, it is difficult for buyers to assess the actual technical condition and the exploitation of such a vehicle. This is why buyers are often affected by such a crime. Of course, this involves a financial loss. In a number of cases, this is an extremely painful loss, as it concerns savings often accumulated over a period of several months. The explanatory memorandum to the project states that, in the current legal state, the behaviour of falsifying the indication of the road-meter is considered to be one of the elements constituting the execution of the signs of a criminal offence, the fraud that I have referred to earlier in the article. 286 § 1 of the Penal Code. In order for this crime to occur, it is necessary to lead another person to an adverse regulation on his or her own or on another person's property by misleading him or making use of an error or inability to properly understand the action taken, the perpetrator of which must act in order to achieve the property benefit. It should therefore be pointed out that the practice commonly known as the filming of meters, the purpose of which is to forge the actual course of the vehicle, exhausts the signs of the crime. However, in practice, as also stated in the explanatory memorandum, it is difficult to prove the perpetrator during the criminal process to prove the marks of the subject of fraud of the indications of the road-meter, as it is difficult to identify the perpetrator. Therefore, the legislative initiative to close this gap must be taken and our debate here must be assessed positively. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm getting to the details. It should be noted that the bill introduces a number of amendments. First of all, the amendment in principle prohibits the replacement of the tracker. An exception to this rule will be the situation of damage to the tracker and its replacement in order to install a new, efficient one. The roadmeter may be replaced by one which is appropriate, dedicated to the vehicle concerned. Secondly, the project includes the penalization of interference in the direction of the tracker. They will be punished, among others. a change in the indication of the traffic meter or an order for action to be taken by another person. Therefore, the criminal liability will cover both the owner and the person actually involved in the manipulation. In addition, the authorised control authorities will be able to read the course and introduce it into the IT system. Data collected in the ICT system will be available to citizens, which will contribute to reducing the risk at the time of purchase of the vehicle. Will this completely solve the problem of manipulating the meter indication? In my opinion - and I have no doubts here - this will not completely solve the problem. This type of regulation is in force in many countries and, as the evaluations show, unfortunately this problem of fraud still exists. In addition, there are doubts about the imposition of new obligations e.g. to vehicle control stations without introducing a regulation to cover the costs of additional work at the same time. These costs are already transferred to entrepreneurs in the next law. Let me remind you that we have recently managed to stop such a very dangerous industry, but also with regard to road safety, changes in the area of vehicle control. Then, during the debate, many bitter words were uttered in connection with such, I would say, difficult operation of vehicle control stations. After all, this is important for road safety. The bill doesn't change anything here, and that's also a problem. There is a question of historic vehicles which are not included in this Act, and here also the previous speakers pointed out that in this case the issues related to the road map are not obvious. On the other hand, in general, as far as this law is concerned, this social area is important and it must be assessed positively - but it does not solve the problem in a comprehensive way, we find it a very serious charge. Taking into account [[♪ The bell ♪]] this social aspect, the Members' Club Modern is willing to support this law, but we will put forward a final position after examining the amendments tabled during the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u221	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the project we are leaning on today will finally be, because, as all the speakers have pointed out, it is an expected project. We're sick of pathological phenomena in our car market. Let's get to the questions. My previous speakers have already asked one of the questions, namely about antique cars. This is a big problem. It's hard to blame someone here who just this car, and sometimes, I would say, very antique, makes up different parts and doesn't have a serious influence on it. The second issue is the car market from third countries. In this sense, I understand the imported cars from outside the European Community. What if a car is imported by a company from the United States or from another country and no one admits to reversing the counter? And the last thing we need to do is find the resources, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the police can implement this project as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The phenomenon of unauthorised interference in the indication of the motor vehicle's mileage counter has occurred on a large scale for many years. The survey carried out on this issue on behalf of the Ministry of Digitization indicates that the number of cars with a twisted counter is about 1.27%. all cars in Poland. However, the Central Computer Science Centre states that the situation may concern up to 20% of vehicles. In practice, the scale of this can be even greater. My question: Why such discrepancies in research regarding the scale of this pathological phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u225	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the past two years, we have been interpelling with Mr Brejza in this matter, because - I will use commonly used vocabulary - the change in the condition of the counter hit mainly young people, because they buy used cars, they bring them. I am pleased that the law will finally be passed and that the legal situation in this area will improve, although it is not a systemic or comprehensive solution, as has already been mentioned here. The most important problem, on the other hand, is this discrepancy that will probably arise between the theory of law and practice. At the Polish-German border there are an unlimited number of different companies, not only vehicle control stations where there are signs: we change the state of the counter. That's a straight line. So I would like to ask the applicants and the government side how they intend to solve this problem in practice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For let the law itself not become an act of death, which will not serve those for whom it is prepared, that is, poorer people who bring in used cars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u227	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, which deals with the very common reverse of car counters in Poland, deserves approval. Similar rules can also be found in other countries of the European Union, where the introduction of penalties has reduced the scale of this negative phenomenon, but has not completely eliminated it. It should be assumed that a similar effect will result in regulations being introduced and in our country. It would be a good solution to create a central database of state meters, regularly supplemented during vehicle inspection and maintenance. This system is currently operating in Belgium and has allowed for a significant reduction in the phenomenon of selling cars with falsified counters. The introduction of a similar system in Poland would be another milestone towards increasing the safety of the legal trade in used cars. Bottom line, I wanted to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] ask the question: Is further work envisaged in this direction, taking into account inter alia. The central database I mentioned? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u229	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Leszek Galemba, the Justice and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u230	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have a question for the applicant whether this project also covers agricultural machinery, mainly agricultural tractors. Because we know that these tractors are also imported on a very large scale. And does the counters of these machines, as well as self-propelled machinery, combine harvesters, others used by farmers also apply to this project? The concern for drivers, for those who need support, is very important, I agree, but this group is also vulnerable to the abuse of scrolling, interference in the counters of agricultural tractors, as well as machines that serve agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u231	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two short questions. The first concerns the issue of services which are entitled to road traffic control. How will the right to enter this in the database be implemented in the Act? What kind of formula? Will there be any indicators, or will it be at every check? Were there any arrangements here? The second question concerns the vehicle control stations. In view of the imposition of de facto new obligations, are work being carried out to update this value of technical research fees, which has not been valued for many, many years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like to ask Minister Marcin Warchoł to answer his questions. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u234	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's antique cars. We are aware that the meter of these cars is zeroing out when it exceeds five digits. Of course, we know that's what it looks like. On the other hand, we do not want to make any changes here. There are no problems with this, and therefore this law does not fail to do so in any way, with technical solutions that occur in antique cars. We know that it is, and it doesn't bother us at all. This does not interfere with the promotion of this law and the entry into force of this law. Mr Gonciusz asked why there were differences in research. Mr President, because there is a huge gray area, there is no data, statistics on a consolidated basis. We're dealing with a variety of research, information. On the other hand, this huge gray area causes us to deal with different numbers. Other figures are given by the European Union, other figures are given by different types of associations and other institutions. Mrs Fabisiak asks about the Polish-German border. Exactly, my fellow Member, the new provision of the article. 306a gives the police the opportunity to intervene in such cases. I'll let you remind me of that. The new act will consist in: anyone who changes the indication of a motor vehicle or interferes with the correctness of its measurement shall be punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years, as well as by the person who has ordered the execution of these acts to another person, shall be subject to a similar penalty. In addition, we introduce liability on the basis of misdemeanor. It's about art. 97, namely: any person who makes an exchange of the vehicle's mileage contrary to the provisions of the Act, who does not present within or after the deadline for the inspection of the inspection station by a diagnostic of the prescribed mileage, will prevent the diagnosis of the reading, will not make a written statement or prevent the competent authorities from carrying out the inspection, will be liable for the offence. And this mechanism, which you are talking about, will certainly be reduced at the Polish-German border. Mrs Płępek asks about the creation of a central database. Member of the Commission, this database has been in place since 2014 and checks the state of the counters every year for technical tests. However, we additionally, and this is very good information, we supplement the data contained in this database by the fact that at each check by diagnosis, and it can be up to five times a year, the diagnostic will enter this data online into the system, every time the counter changes and every control of the operations performed by the police, i.e. the police and other services, as they will carry out checks, will also update this data. So a lot of different new data will be included in this database, except for those that are already there today. Mr Galemba asked a very good question about agricultural machinery. We are aware that this is a huge sphere of abuse, namely harvesters, bulldozers, all free-riding vehicles that have so-called. Motohours, they're actually outside any control system right now. But this bill will also apply to them. Mr Suchoń asks about the services in which the police and other services will control the state of the counter. Well, in the course of the vehicle inspection they will be able - I repeat, it will be optional, non-binding for these services - to check the state of the counter, then to enter this state into the online system and thus enrich this CEPiK database that I was just talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u235	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle in relation to the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Penal Code Act. Over the years, the fraud associated with interference in the indication of the mileage counter in the course of the vehicle has taken on a very large scale, which is socially unacceptable. The procedure for twisting the counter mainly covers motor vehicles and consists in fooling a potential buyer so that he thinks that the vehicle is less operated, which is intended to benefit the seller's assets. This is intended to mislead the buyer and does not reflect the actual state of the vehicle. In the present form, this act is considered to be one of the features of the criminal activity of the accused fraud. Under the current conditions, it is difficult to indicate that interference has actually taken place in the direction of the road-meter if the vehicle does not originate from the first owner. This is a loophole used by fraudsters. In order to eliminate these practices, it is necessary to make a number of changes which this government project presents. It assumes new sanation changes, which allow changes in the possibility of interchange of the road-meter, and eliminates the possibility of interference and manipulation in the actual state of the road-meter. In view of the above, as the Free and Solidarni Circle, we are in favour of further proceding this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u237	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Wait a minute.]] Oh, there's the Prime Minister. I'm canceling my break. Welcome, Prime Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017 (Print No 3138) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission (Print No 3196). I now ask the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Julia Przyłębska, to present the information. You're welcome, Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Allow me to present, because I have a time limit of 15 minutes, the most important elements of the annual information adopted by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This concerns the year 2017. In 2017, the Court issued a total of 408 judgments in substantive proceedings, including 36 judgments, 53 orders to terminate the proceedings, one signaling order, 178 provisions to refuse to grant the application to the public in full or in part, 98 provisions not to make a complaint against those provisions. All decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall contain justifications. In addition, the Court arranged 496 so-called. apparent complaints, in addition to the formal procedure, providing detailed answers in cases relating to citizens' complaints against judicial decisions, administrative decisions caused e.g. the long-term nature of proceedings resulting from a sense of injustice and powerlessness towards the actions of the judicial authorities and bodies. These are also complaints about social exclusion. In 2017, a total of 285 applications, legal questions and constitutional complaints were received by the Court. The Court has arranged, among others, for the Court of Justice. cases from previous years: 7 cases from 2013, 10 cases from 2014, 32 cases from 2015, 28 cases from 2016. In 2017, the Court identified two cases in the framework of preventive control. One concerned the failure to comply with the standards of the legislative procedure for the examination by the Sejm of the Senate amendments. The second case in question concerned one of the fundamental freedoms of man in a democratic state, namely freedom of assembly. At this point, let me remind you of a number of important issues relating to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017 compared to the previous years, which directly concerned or had an impact on the Court's judicial activities. Well, in previous years, as you remember, because I talked about it often, it was customary for judges to accumulate vacations and then pay high cash equivalents. Of course, this did not apply to all judges, for example. Ms Ewa Łętowska, at her own request for almost six months before the end of her term of office, took a leave of absence. A record player who took over 100,000. Zł, former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński. And for the then vice president Stanisław Biernat, over 180 thousand were planned to pay. zł, therefore, it was necessary for him to take leave before the end of his term of office. It turned out to be necessary to give all the judges late vacations. These were on average vacations of several dozen days, from 116 days of vacation to 56 days. The need for late leave by judges has been directly translated into the judicial activities of the Court. The statistics quoted by the media, which do not take this context into account, do not reliably inform the public of the actual judicial work of the judges of the Tribunal. The judges, ruling in three-and-a-half-members and full-members, issued, each of them, from 61 to 11 decisions terminating the proceedings. Differences in the case-law statistics of individual judges also result from the fact that not all judges have been adjudicated throughout the year. In 2017, two judges died during their term of office - Judge Lech Morawski in July 2017 and Judge Henryk Cioch in December 2017. Three judges - Judge Grzegorz Jędrejek, Judge Justyn Piskorski and Judge Andrzej Zielecki - began their term of office. In 2017, a statutory reorganisation was carried out, i.e. the liquidation of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal in which the Registry of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal were established. In 2017, we no longer concluded contracts for work with persons not employed in the Constitutional Tribunal - for the preparation of a draft judgment with justification. Such practices, as you remember, have occurred in previous years. It was also necessary to restore the application of the rule of separate signature of the operative part of the order and its justification. This obvious and standard institution, not only in Poland but more widely, in the European circle of legal culture, was not used in the activities of the tribunal. Sentences of the provisions in the proceedings in the so-called. prior checking as well as the termination provisions have not been signed. Only their justification was signed. This practice had to be terminated immediately. The year 2017 was the year of stabilisation of the Court. On the one hand, this was supported by the normative peace of mind as regards the rules governing the proceedings before the Court. On the other hand, the Court's decisions have also been affected by the stability of its functioning. For example, in its judgment of 24 October 2017, the Court confirmed that the judge of the Tribunal, elected by the Sejm, who has taken the oath to the President, takes the judicial responsibility and that it is the duty of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to assign him cases. The judge is independent in the performance of his duties and is subject only to the Constitution. In its judgment of 11 September 2017, the Court of Justice held that the appointment of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal constituted the prerogatives of the President, which are not subject to the control of the general courts and the Supreme Court. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: That is illegal.]] The resolution of the above problems, which have so far polarised public opinion, has enabled the Court to work normally and to take action in resolving matters that are important to citizens. It is worth noting that most of the judgments in 2017 were filed in proceedings initiated by constitutional complaints. In 2017, the Court reminded the legislators of the need to protect weaker parties. The Court recalls that these entities are workers who, by nature, have a weaker position vis-à-vis their employer, families in difficult material situations, in particular large children and underprivileged ones, as well as those at risk of homelessness. In its judgment of 18 October 2017, the Court stressed that the right to housing, although belonging to economic and social rights, is undoubtedly linked to respect for the principle of human dignity. A man deprived of an apartment, sufficient resources to buy food or treatment, has no chance of a decent life. For this reason, the Court has ruled that certain provisions on enforcement in the administration are non-constitutional because there are no regulations guaranteeing at least minimum protection against homelessness for persons who are unable to meet their own housing needs. It was a 2015 case. The Court asked the competent public authorities to pay particular attention to the needs of persons with disabilities and their carers. In its communication order of October 2017, the Court made comments to the Sejm on the appropriateness of legislative action aimed at regulating the reimbursement of the cost of travelling for disabled pupils and carers to educational establishments. The provisions in force allowed the reimbursement rates of carriage to be fixed according to different criteria and consequently at different levels, sometimes at such a low level, that the amount of the refund was so significantly different from the costs actually incurred by the parents that it limited the substance of the right to reimbursement granted to the parents. From a constitutional point of view, it is necessary to equalise educational opportunities in such a way as to ensure equal access to such forms of assistance by public authorities to all actors. The Court stressed the need to fully empower the individual in the proceedings before the judicial authorities, in particular if there are issues relating to the restriction of freedom. In its judgment of March 2017, it ruled that the applicant's right to participate in a court hearing on the enforcement of a safeguard measure was not to be deprived of its right to remain in a closed psychiatric facility. The Court reminded the legislator that personal freedom is the foundation of constitutional freedoms, the restriction of which must be subject to thorough judicial review. This check must provide for the possibility of the person concerned being actively involved in it. The Court stressed the particular importance of human freedom and personal immunity. In order to ensure the proper protection of the individual against the arbitraryness of the authority, in its judgment of 14 December 2017, he ordered the legislator to amend the rules governing the search of persons, to carry out personal checks and to search vehicles. In questioning the insufficient precision of these provisions, the Court postponed the loss of their existing force, giving the legislator a time limit for the necessary amendments. At the same time, the Court has obliged the legislator to ensure appropriate judicial review mechanisms for the application of these measures. The Court recalled the importance of citizens' confidence in the state and the law. The essence of this principle is to provide citizens with a stable legal environment, security based on legal certainty, allowing them to plan their own actions wisely and to anticipate the actions of state authorities. In its judgment of 14 December 2017, the Court contested the levying of fees for the issuance of a new driving licence as a result of a change in the data contained therein due to the operation of local authorities. According to the Court, if the need to exchange such documents is not a consequence In accordance with the principle of state loyalty to citizens, these fees should not be charged to their holders. In that judgment, the Tribunal also required the legislator to review the legal system, taking into account the existence of other similar rules, with a view to their immediate collective amendment. The judgments presented do not, of course, cover a rich spectrum of issues relevant to citizens and the state as their community, which was resolved by the Court in 2017. However, they clearly show that, contrary to the alleged allegations, the tribunal does not only act properly, but also ensures that its case-law protects the freedoms and constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland and the proper functioning of the authorities of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u239	Thank you very much, Chairman. I now ask Mr Mark Ast to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Madam President! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee, I have the honour to report on the relevant problems arising from the activities of the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017 contained in print No 3138. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee on 19 January 2019 for consultation. The Commission for Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission took note of the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017 at its joint meeting on 12 February 2019. During the committee meeting, every Member who wanted to speak had the opportunity to ask a question. I'm sorry to say... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Especially me, excluded from the proceedings.]] ...many speeches by Members of the opposition were provocative, because what else is the way to refer to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal as the judge, the appointment of the current judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as judges of doubles? In view of the fact that such voices were repeated despite the president's reminders, the president closed the discussion. In opposition... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[So not all of them.]] ...the committee voted to close the discussion by 20 votes, with nine votes against, three abstentions, and the committee president stated that the committee had read the information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Louder, louder! Harder!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u241	Thank you very much. Madam, I draw your attention. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Krzysztof July. [[Not Peterovich?]] [[No, he takes care of the children in Podkarpacie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Madam President of the Constitutional Tribunal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, it is my great pleasure to share with the High Chamber a reflection on the annual report on the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal presented by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The title of this information speaks of problems, in our opinion there are no problems. I listened with great attention to the speech by the President, who presented the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, particularly in the context of the judgments taking place there. It is clear from this information that the Constitutional Tribunal was able to uphold civil liberties and freedoms and that with quite a lot of criticism it referred to the law in question. I'm very grateful for that. I am so convinced that Parliament, as this body which is a law, will very quickly address the issues raised by the Constitutional Tribunal. The year 2017 was an extremely important year in the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is, in fact, the first year of the normal functioning of the tribunal after the great crisis, which was initiated in 2015 in the Seym of the previous term, where, by the power of the majority of the Seym focused on the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, a law was passed amending the Act on the Constitutional Tribunal at that time. In fact, this bill is a leap to the Constitutional Tribunal in the face of awareness of the possibility of losing power in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. This was also the intention of the then parliamentary majority to establish another legislative chamber from the Constitutional Tribunal. However, this did not happen, as today's information submitted by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal confirms, but let us return to the facts. It was very incomprehensible that this 2015 amendment, the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, led to the fact that two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who were to take up their seats in the Court of First Instance in the new term of office of the Sejm had been appointed by the Sejm of the old term of office. This was the source of the whole conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal. This has also been witnessed by the Venice Commission as an advisory body of the Council of Europe and this is not subject to any discussion here. Why did this happen? I am so convinced that further perturbations were due to the desire to restore order and order at the Constitutional Court and that, after a very long process of investigation, such legislation should finally be established, as the delegations give the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, so that the law which today is universally applicable can be adopted. These were, in fact, three laws which the Constitutional Tribunal had to implement in order to bring about the stabilisation and standardisation of this power as a very important authority in the constitutional system of the Republic of Poland. After all, the Court is a court, it is a court of law, and this court should be a court of the highest authority. And today I would like to thank the President of Julia Przyłębska for the fact that the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal under the rules of these three laws, i.e. the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act introducing these two laws, gave the desired effect. Today, the Constitutional Court is at peace. Today, jointly, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, both those appointed by the Sejm of the current term of office and those appointed by the Sejm of the previous term of office, shall rule in accordance with the procedures laid down in those laws. Today, it can be said that the Constitutional Court has been restored its dignity, its authority has been restored, for which I am extremely grateful. I am also convinced that the Constitutional Tribunal, as a judicial authority, will continue to act in such a way as to actually deal with the cases at a good pace, and I would like to say that the information that has been presented shows that there have been quite a number of cases which have been considered by the Constitutional Court. It should be pointed out that the Constitutional Tribunal had to settle cases which had already been brought before it during the reign of the previous President of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is very interesting because the Constitutional Tribunal under the rule, under the chairmanship of Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, really deviated far from those standards, from those qualities which are available to independent judges. In fact, the Constitutional Tribunal at the end of its reign became a quasi-political body, which should not have happened. Excellent number of judges, very often actors present in front of television cameras and practicing politics, for which they are not actually legally called... They took that quality from themselves, they are not independent judges. Today I am convinced that such matters are no longer in the Constitutional Court. Everything that was a conflict has been silenced. Today, the Constitutional Tribunal is well incorporated into the Polish state, into the system of judicial authority. Today, before the Constitutional Tribunal, cases are suspended which are dealt with in accordance with the law, at a good pace, without delay, [[Joy in the Chamber]] when it comes to the time of their examination. I am also convinced that the Constitutional Tribunal under the chairmanship of Ms Julia Przyłębska will be a judicial authority which will uphold the values and constitutional freedoms of citizens. I would like to thank the President once again for the fact that today the Constitutional Tribunal is free from all these political entanglements. I think that the Constitutional Tribunal will continue to do so so so that Poles actually take on increasing confidence in the state, its organs, especially in the judiciary. I am also pleased that the Sejm of the current term of office has established such a law, which today guarantees the good functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is also worth noting that the Constitutional Tribunal carried out all the statutory dispositions in 2017 which allowed it to find itself in this new, completely different reality. The Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and, importantly, the Code of Ethics of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are extremely important things. I would like to announce that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice accepts information from the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality between authorities. This information is not voted out by the Sejm, but I am grateful that it has been prepared in a worthy manner. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and guarantees that the Constitutional Tribunal will stand at the level of the task which the Constitution puts before the Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u243	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mr Boris Budek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Judge! We live in two different worlds. What you're talking about is an imaginary reality. For over three years you've been trying to lie to Poles... [[Voice from the room: Don't you know how to turn?]] ...pretending that nothing happened. We don't have a Constitutional Court, we have a court impersonation to which the party directed its people... [[Voice from the room: Member's dummy.]] Instead of exercising constitutional control, she tried to legalize non-constitutional changes made in Poland for almost 3 years. We do not have a constitutional court with independent judges with high ethical and moral standards, and unfortunately - as I regret - people who implement party directives. The process of identifying the person who directs the Constitutional Tribunal has been flawed from the outset. The election by the President, affected by a constitutional flaw, is by law invalid, and sitting in the Court of First Instance of the three persons who were there contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, causes that any judgment given with the involvement of a person who is not a judge is invalid by law and they will all have to be re-examined. But the worst thing you have done is that you have returned to the model that Poles said goodbye in 1989. You have proposed a model of a single state authority in which there is no constitutional control, and a tribunal that exists only by name is designed to legalize non-constitutional changes. Participative awards for the person running the Constitutional Tribunal and manifesting himself as a man of freedom merely and exclusively prove that this thesis is true. Unfortunately, you do not understand what a threefold division of power is, and you do not understand the basic principle that this third power, the judicial authority, is independent of the other two, and that this balance of authority must be supplemented by the principle of independence of the judicial authority. [[Who's talking? Who's talking?]] Why is that? Well, all you have to do is reach into history. [[Judge on the phone.]] One can see how the Constitutional Tribunal was dealt with in dictatorial regimes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Here, Prime Minister Morawiecki, as a person who knows about history, should explain to you how in the 1930s Germany protected itself against the constitutional court not to recognise these unconstitutional changes. [[Just like you guys did in the spring of the 15th year.]] Unfortunately, you are trying to convince Poles that you have changed anything to a positive. No, the Constitutional Tribunal has not dealt with the most important laws for citizens. [[And how are your judges on the phone?]] I'll remind you, he hasn't examined it until now. the law on land trading, which in Bolshevik way took the right of decision from Polish farmers, and through this law the sole beneficiary of the sale of land was Treasure of the State and most in the history of Polish land sold The Treasury of the State to foreigners, precisely because you have adopted such a law. And the second important issue. The Constitutional Tribunal did not wish to deal with surveillance laws. Those who actually caused special services in Poland to have unlimited opportunities to eavesdrop and track citizens. [[Obsession. Obsessive is healing. It's treatable.]] Instead, we have a mock-up of the Constitutional Tribunal with a person who, at party parties, applauded by representatives of the legislative and executive authority in the light of the cameras, pretends to be a man of freedom, while the word freedom is completely foreign to you. But I can assure you of one thing that any unconstitutional change will be corrected, [[Applause]] that any judgment given with the participation of a double judge will be touched... [[Oh, louder, louder.]] ...that those who have broken the law will be held accountable. [[It'll be as it was.]] No one will ever make that mistake again. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No one will ever again cause those who break the law to pretend that nothing happened. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is therefore clear that the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club does not accept the report submitted by your judge Julia Przyłębska just now, because the tribunal has no president, the tribunal has no vice-president, and there are three members who are not judges. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Insolent.]] [[Voice from the hall: Boris, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u245	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a normal democratic country, it is usually known who gives judgment in a constitutional court, but it is not usually known which judgment will be passed. Meanwhile, in Poland, PiS has been known for two years, we usually know which sentence will be passed, but we do not know who will deliver it, whether this sentence will be passed at its headquarters in Nowogrodzka or at the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Novgorodska.]] [[Under the dumpster, under the dumpster.]] This is how we can sum up the activities of the Court since 2017. The Constitutional Tribunal should act as a legal scalpel which precisely eliminates all non-constitutional laws, but 2 years ago PiS turned it into a dangerous tool held in the hands of dangerous people. [[You're dangerous yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we cannot look back. We must look to the future because today we must be more afraid of what the Constitutional Tribunal can still destroy than regret what it has already destroyed. Tomorrow, 14 March, the Constitutional Tribunal, which has been seized by the nominates of the current government, will deal with a law that will take away all of us, citizens, the right to independent judgments, independent courts, the law on the politicisation of the National Council of the Courts. The same law is to be adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 19 March, thus the Warsaw Court is in a legal race with the Luxembourg Court. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But behind the finish line of this legal race is the chasm, and at the bottom of this chasm is polyxit, because that's what this government is doing. [[Obsessive is healing. It's treatable.]] High Izbo! If the current National Judicial Council really wanted to examine the constitutionality of the rules under which it operates at this point in time, it would refrain from selecting judges in a situation of legal uncertainty. Meanwhile, these procedures continue all the time, the KRS operates in full steam. And it shows what the real purpose of the KRS was to make an application. It was an act for appearance, so well known to the PiS government. This is creation. simply subsequent layers of political lie, on which the PiS builds the foundation of its power. This is why one authority, cast by the PiS nominates with a constitutional violation, will legitimize the actions of the other institution filled in the same way. However, on 19 March a hearing will take place before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg on preliminary questions raised by the Supreme Court, which will allow it to be decided whether the National Council of Courts can act as a constitutional guardian of the independence of Polish courts, the independence of Polish judges. The President of the EU Court stated that these doubts could affect the functioning of the judicial cooperation system... [[Do you know the verdict?]] ...the expression of which is a reference mechanism for a preliminary ruling. According to him, he is the pillar of the judicial system of the European Union as a whole. [[So the ruling's settled? Have you heard the verdict yet?]] Meanwhile, in October Ub. The Minister of Justice has submitted an application which undermines the possibility of Polish courts asking preliminary questions. Thus, Poland's place in the legal system of the European Union is challenged, because Poland, accepting the provisions of the Accession Treaty, accepted the entire Community acquis, including Article. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on preliminary questions. Thus, an attempt to examine the compatibility of this article with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is actually going to undermine Poland's place in the European Union. [[The voice from the hall: Yeah, that's right... this country of yours...]] And this is what the PiS government does - undermines Poland's place in the European Union. Why should the EU Court investigate this case before the Polish Constitutional Tribunal? I'll tell you why. Because the President of the European Court of Justice did not go to the PiS headquarters in Nowogrodzka to meet the President of PiS. Because the president of the PiS isn't in his... [[Schetyna goes to him.]] ...to the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Because my husband... [[Don't yell at us. Don't yell.]] ...the President of the European Court of Justice is not an ambassador who can at any time be removed from office by the President of the PiS. Because there are no understudy judges in the European Court of Justice. [[Voice from the room: Don't bully yourself.]] I don't believe people who, above the independence of a judge, put their willingness to take high positions and earn high money. [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] That is why we must defend against the European Court the rights of Polish citizens against the attacks of PiS politicians. We must defend the rights of Polish citizens to fair judgments handed down by courts independent of political pressure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I do not know if you know such a very old Polish saying: do not turn the cat's tail. Listening to the speech of the President, Mr Lipc, representing the largest parliamentary club in this House, I have the impression that you have turned this cat here by 180 degrees. But by the way... [[360 degrees.]] [[Voice from the room: Celsius.]] Going on to the next part. [[Jesus, it's like a market, sir.]] As every year, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall provide the Sejm and the Senate with information on the relevant problems arising from the activities of the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal for the last year. Already at this point we should notice something extremely unusual and disturbing. Last year, the president initiated a new tradition, you might say. The information was presented again with several months of delay. At this time, information about the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal for 2018 should be ready, but we do not have information for 2017. It is all the more surprising that, High Izbo, almost PLN 2 million were paid in the Constitutional Court last year. This is the thought: one would have to think of prizes many times bigger, so that perhaps it could be done in time and take information in the right, customary time, and no, one could say, one year after that date, at which the High Chamber, but also Poles, should hear this information. The exchange of staff in the office of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is a fact, has had a negative impact on the institution's activities, and for the last two years, this is the brutal truth and no stories you will correct it here. A rather interesting date was decided to choose for the presentation of information at the meeting of the two Joint Parliamentary Committees, which was Tuesday 12 February, which was not done during the meeting of the Sejm, as usual it was practiced that the media, the society, should not be too interested in this term. The discussion was as turbulent as ever, and the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, as every year, was the main defender of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, after all, it is worth recalling, personally reformed in the years 2015 and 2016 for his political environment. The effects of this reform are felt by everyone until today, and it is not in the best sense of the word, which is visible in Poland, but even worse, and I accept it with sadness, unfortunately outside our country's borders. Information on the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal provides the usual statistics in comparison with the previous years. They are not delightful, but we already know that those in 2018 will be, High Izbo, even worse. I will proceed with the analysis of these statistics. There are clearly fewer judgments issued, including judgments. In 2015, the Court issued 173 judgments, including 63 sentences. Note, while 99 judgments were issued in 2016, including 39 judgments. And now we go to the year covered by the information: 89 judgments were handed down in 2017 in the Court, including 36 judgments. The number of orders issued decreased in the same period from 156 in 2015 to 80 in 2017, i.e. by nearly half. It's not only that those sentences weren't enough, but some of them were psychic. We all remember especially the one in which the judges of the doubles themselves decided that they were full judges, contrary to the famous paremia: nemo iudex in causa sua. [[What does that mean? Tell me if you're using...]] Now, Mrs Pavłowicz... You forgot your college days, I'll remind you. For Mrs Pavłowicz... High Izbo, this is a very well-known paraemia, especially for all lawyers, and it means: no one can be a judge in their own case. Mrs Pavłowicz has already remembered, so I will continue. [[Applause]] [[That's what they said. And the understudy? There are no doubles... explain it to me.]] It is nice that the submitted information qualified as three judgments of 2016, which can be read on the Court's website that these are different decisions. It can be said that this is probably an oversight on the part of the employees of the President, taking into account your attitude towards those judgments which were published with considerable delay on the basis of a law stating that they were not issued in a binding manner. The statistics on separate sentences are also interesting. The separate sentences submitted for judgments in 2015 concerned 25% Judgments, in 2016 this percentage of sentences separate to judgments stopped at 44% , and in 2017, attention, High Izbo, dropped to only 19%, which is probably a historical indicator at the same time. Even more interesting is the question of separate sentences. In 2015 it was 5.5% , one year later - 55%, i.e. 10 times the increase, and in 2017 - dropped to 15% . You'd wonder if someone was wrong about the comma, the way you look at the data, but it's not a mistake. The President adopted another tactic in 2017. It consists in passing cases to judges elected by the Sejm during this term of office or to judges elected by the Sejm in previous terms. Mixed compositions are extremely rare. It looks like there are two tribunals inside the Constitutional Court, which is a pathological phenomenon. And this pathology is managed by the president. The most interesting thing is that Professor Marek Zubik does not rule at all at the Constitutional Court. I'd like the president to explain it to all of us, because when someone collects over 20,000. zł. salary per month, it is expected to carry out a specific job. Judge Zubik expresses his desire to adjudicate, and I don't know why he hasn't received a case since the end of 2016, which is almost 2.5 years. It is also worrying that the number of cases brought to the tribunal has fallen quite strongly. In 2025 there were 623, in 2016 there was a significant drop in them - up to 360 and in 2017 only 285 cases were brought to the tribunal. Within 2 years, this figure decreased from over 600 to 280. [[Well, that's good, isn't it? I guess that's a good thing.]] Madame, I don't think that's very good. Of these 285 applications, legal questions and constitutional complaints, the constitutional complaint cases represented 82% all the cases brought in. The number of cases brought dropped to 20 years ago, from the beginning of the current constitution, when Parliament and ministries created much less laws and regulations than in recent years. In the record year of 2017, 32 thousand were created. the parties to the law generally in force. If we compare this with the number of cases brought, taking into account the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law, it must be acknowledged that this is the result of an unimaginable decrease in trust in this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats cannot support this information in view of such shocking data contained in the information on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal for 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u249	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u250	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We would like to say, Prime Minister! The Prime Minister has escaped somewhere... So-called Madam President! It's been my honor to perform... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal! Please respond. Yeah, it's so-called. Madam President?]] Quiet, please. If the marshal can't take care of it, then maybe your personal culture... [[Voice from the room: Your personal culture...]] [[Madam President...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u251	Mr President, continue your speech, not discuss it with the Chamber. I would very much like to ask the Member not to discuss with the Chamber and continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u252	Please, Marshal, control this room. It was my honour to present a statement on behalf of the Poselski Club on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Legislative Commission on information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017. So if I should briefly present this report for 2017, I would like to stress first that it was this year that in Poland, according to my calculations, around 27 thousand were adopted. the parties to the typing of new acts, laws and regulations. I assumed that there could be an average of about 5 laws on each of these pages. This gives us about 135 thousand. rules creating rights and obligations for citizens. That's 135 grand. potential non-compliance with the fundamental principles of the basic law. It is therefore necessary to ask whether, under such conditions of mass production of law, the Republic of Poland is a rational legislator, which creates a good and normatively consistent law, pursuing the objectives pursued in line with the constitutional standard of correct legislation, whether the system of law and its bodies such as the Constitutional Tribunal inspire citizens' confidence in the judiciary and whether the Constitutional Tribunal in its form, which was set up by the PiS, is at all capable of capturing in this crowd of rules all those which need to be verified and to which doubts should be raised. In 2017, the TK received a total of 285 requests, legal questions and constitutional complaints, representing 82% all the cases brought in. This is the smallest number of cases brought to TK since 2000. According to the analysis, the Court issued an average of seven judgments per month, which, compared to previous years, shows a slowing down of work, as in 2015 it was an average of 14 sentences per month. The Members present in this House know well what this is about. It's just that the tribunal has lost its main usefulness. The slowdown may also result from the fact that in 2015 623 cases were brought into the TK, i.e. in 2017, the Court acted on average twice as slowly. The statistics for 2018 point to a further decrease in the impact of the proposals, as only 152 cases, including only 72 cases, have been identified initially. The answer to this problem can be found in the first chapter of the report, which presents the current composition and bodies of the Constitutional Tribunal. Three so-called judges joined the jury. understudys elected by the governing party in spite of the alleged proper filling by the Sejm of the previous term of office. Judgments by non-judges are being questioned today. Nevertheless, the current so-called. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal continues to appoint doubles to the formations of the Tribunal. This is the most important, although not the only problem of the Constitutional Tribunal. A race is currently underway in which the Constitutional Tribunal races the Court of Justice of the European Union on time. What's the point of this race anyway? Of course, to warn the EU tribunal and to say that the new National Judicial Council is acting in accordance with the law. The ruling on the Presidential Act on the KRS is due tomorrow, which is March 14th on Thursday. Until recently, the judges planned to issue a ruling after the trial, and now they've changed their minds. The sentence will be handed down at a secret meeting and will be announced only later. In this way, the Constitutional Tribunal is simply a tool in our eyes to authorize the activities of the governing party. Could this slowing down of work be a reason for improving our legal system? I doubt it. Let us now look at the substance of the judgments. In 2017, the Court issued 36 judgments and 53 orders to terminate the proceedings, including one provision to partially terminate the proceedings prior to the final judgment. Most of the provisions on termination were issued as a result of the examination of cases which were initiated by legal questions, constitutional complaints and requests by entities with limited application card. In 20 judgments, the Court ruled that one or more of the contested provisions were incompatible with the standard of control. This is 56% Judgments. In 16 judgments, he ruled on the compatibility or inadequacy of the control pattern. This means that more than half of the complaints submitted were justified, but it took years for the TK to say so. And that time is another problem. Judgments should be apolitical, impartial and substantively resolving the substance of the case. In the meantime, judges elected by the PiS were appointed to investigate the case of the new National Judicial Council. How should we treat such a judgment? Will it still be a verdict or a constitutionally incompatible stand for double judges? This is another problem for the tribunal that we should lean on. The Political Constitutional Tribunal, acting in breach of the Constitution, is to examine the Act on the National Judicial Council, which is also incompatible with the Constitution. Last year 15 judges were elected by the Sejm, although according to the Constitution the Sejm should choose only four. [[But you have a problem. But, poor people, you have a problem. Oh, dear.]] Not much, the constitutionally guaranteed term of office of the previous judges of the council was interrupted. Since then, the status of the new KRS has been questioned. In such a situation, how should the National Judicial Council uphold the independence of the courts? The judges of the National Courts also requested assistance from the Constitutional Court, which was also controlled by persons selected by the PiS. If the tribunal considers the rules on which these persons have been chosen to be constitutionally compatible, we will therefore have to legalise their actions. Governments are in a hurry because the tribunal is due to issue a ruling five days before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will deal with, among other things, the Court of Justice of the European Union. the status of the new National Judicial Council. The TSUE will then recognise the questions for a preliminary ruling by the Supreme Court on the new Supreme Court Disciplinary Chamber, because President Duda filled it with persons designated by the new National Court of Justice. And the Constitutional Tribunal is designed to legitimize probably illegal acts of government. I'm sure you can't accept such an institution. Today, the KRS is not independent of the legislative and executive powers. And that's the next problem to be solved. There is also a serious concern that the judgment of the Constitutional Court will conflict with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and we will then have even greater legal chaos and another constitutional crisis. Today, the Constitutional Tribunal has nothing to boast about, as the statistics presented show. In general, it violates the law and, above all, as far as constitutional issues are concerned, the attempt on an independent justice system is already becoming a fact in our eyes. The lack of this independence today is one of the greatest problems of the Constitutional Court, which we will all have to deal with sooner or later. A serious problem is, of course, also judgments without further consideration. The data in the form of analyses and figures that I have quoted are intended to illustrate to the High House the particularities of the work of the tribunal under the current management, which can be discussed for a long time. However, it is worth noting the record of the outstanding decisions left unanswered by the legislator, which lists at least 21 sentences requiring enforcement, the two judgments which raised doubts and the 27 judgments awaiting amendments to the law. Even if the tribunal gives a judgment after a tedious trial in which it considers it necessary to change the law, the endless procedure in the Senate, which has the right to correct it, begins. There were a few cases like this last year, and what about the rest of it? It is a good habit to respect the work of others, and where there are no good habits, there is simply no good law and it perfectly illustrates the situation of the Constitutional Tribunal, this systemic situation. High Izbo! Why do we need a work, which is the Constitutional Tribunal in the present edition, filled with understudy judges, full of doubt, incompetent, whose lack of authority and trust is the main cause of the drop in the number of cases brought and the slowing down of judgment? Even after these decisions have been passed, we do not use the advice or judgments of the tribunal to create thousands of laws without further consideration. Therefore, the Club The Modern Messenger strongly condemns the information on. the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, while appreciating the involvement of the Ombudsman, who was this very active party in the interaction with the Constitutional Tribunal. The Ombudsman also contested, for example, the constitutionality of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, for which he deserves to be praised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u253	We have a list of questions now. Nine ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba... [[Voice from the room: Do we have that much time and 1 minute? Nothing at the committee meeting, and now nothing?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: One minute is all you need to be insulted.]] ...Citizen Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u254	High Izbo! The presence of Prime Minister Morawiecki during today's debate shows that tomorrow, before Judge Przyłębska, a very, very difficult day, day and sentence, which can lead to a serious legal crisis, firstly because the judge in charge of the tribunal has issued a judgment on the revision of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, breaking other laws, including the Ombudsman Act, which has until 22 March to report its participation and to present its position on the subject of the hearing. The case is very serious, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not only an infringement of the law which may prejudic the annulment of the proceedings, but also the fact that the judge Przyłębska indicated an unauthorised person to the judgment, because, Judge, Mr Justyn Piskorski is not a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and has no right [[♪ The bell ♪]] take binding decisions on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u255	Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u256	I wanted to say this: first of all, the elections were democratic, the Law and Justice won these elections... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...you totalists have not accepted the results of the elections and your attitude is simply the attitude of fascists who do not recognize democratic elections. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u257	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u258	I have a question for the president, how does he judge politics...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u259	Member, please do not use offensive...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u260	...the contempt, the sting, the hatred of the judges of the tribunal, to the President, the humiliation of the judges with the term "duble," the rude, disdainful attitude of the President. [[Mr. Marshal, this is out of line. What are you for?]] You just gave me the evidence. Madam President, so-called. Madam President, Mrs. Przylebska. This is the President of the Constitutional Tribunal for you, democratically elected, in accordance with the law. You're questioning a foreign country... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Let her speak. This is the face of the PiS.]] ...seriousness, importance of the Polish tribunal. You humiliate Poland, you embezzle your vows. Such attitudes were taken by the judges of the tribunal rebelling against... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Let people watch. PiS-owska Polska.]] ...legal authority, who also did not recognise the results of democratic elections. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You like it, don't you? Fascists, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u261	Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club. [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: PiS-owska Polska in full karst.]] [[Marshal, wasn't that a violation of the Sejm's seriousness?]] [[May I?]] Mr Meysztowicz, please calm down. [[Calm your colleagues down.]] [[Voice from the hall: Were you allowed? Are you guys allowed to do anything? It's over that you're allowed to do anything.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Case U 1/17 has been set aside for more than two years, even though it is considered by only three people with you in charge. When do you expect this case to end? In how many cases have you determined the formation of the ruling without the alphabetical criterion? Eventually, tell me what alphabet you used to do it by. During the General Assembly of Judges of the Court of First Instance in 2016, did the judges raise written objections and what did they specifically concern? Nearly 40,000. Former officials who have been deprived of their pensions as a result of the de-zubekization bill still cannot wait for the judgments of the Polish courts. These are people who work hard for a free Polish country, who have been treated with a disgraceful, barbaric, undignified democratic state principle of collective responsibility. Now he tells them to prove their innocence in court, among others. Because to this day, you had neither the will nor the courage to appoint a meeting on their behalf. That's why I'm asking because this case has been in the Court since February 2018, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When you do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u263	Mr Norbert Obricki...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u264	It was supposed to be quicker and smoother. Please answer my questions in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u265	...Citizen Platform Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Only in January and February 2017, you issued 53 orders to change formations in 49 cases, including even twice in some cases. Mostly you haven't given reasons or given the legal basis for these changes. On the other hand, these changes are in line with the evaluation of the Foundation. Batorego, according to other assessments, simply aimed to ensure that the newly elected judges were sitting there, including the so-called. Doubles. Then how do you respond to this allegation that this is an unlawful act of yours, that the hearing on the KRS will take place on 14 March, i.e. before the date on which the Ombudsman has the right to proceed and express his position? They say it's breaking the law that you're breaking the law here. Then I have an optimistic message, namely only 26% of Poles appreciate the work of the tribunal, and as much as 40% evaluate it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bad. They didn't fall for your constitutional court tricks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u267	Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u268	High Seym! I would like to ask in particular the Prime Minister, as well as Mr Marshal and Mr Marek Ast: Why isn't the PiS implementing the Constitutional Court's judgment on welfare benefits for people with disabilities? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Hypocrisy in this situation is that this judgment was demanded by the PiS Members represented by Mr Mark Ast and Mr Stanisław Swed. The judgment was delivered in October 2014. PiS rules over three years. It is already known today that this sentence will not be enforced in this term of office. Why are you cheating the disabled? Why do you play disabled people? When you tried to get their votes before the election, you promised the disabled a lot. Today you can see that you have not fulfilled these promises for four years. Why are you ignoring the judgment of the Constitutional Court you requested? Why aren't you introducing these benefits to the caretakers of the disabled you requested? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u269	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In presenting the 2017 report, Judge Przyłębska spoke of many successes. I think that you should confirm these successes by announcing today's ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on the legality of the action of the National Court of Justice. That would have believed what you were presenting. I know you're not going to answer this honestly, but I am asking you: What are the real reasons why you speeded up your investigation of the CRS before the Court of Justice of the European Union examines it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u271	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Say something in Latin.]] Question, Madam President, straight away: Why didn't Judge Zubik, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, rule once for over two years? It is worth recalling that he is a professor of constitutional law, a prominent specialist, in order to serve his knowledge in the resolution of matters at the Constitutional Court. Why do you not allow such a distinguished professional to rule, as I said earlier, which is rewarded with a sum of 20,000. zł a month out of the pocket of a Polish taxpayer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u273	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, PO-KO Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One weekly has granted you the title of man of freedom. It wouldn't be weird if it wasn't for the fact that this weekly was issued by the Senator of Law and Justice... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and congratulations and flowers at this ceremony were given to you by President Kaczyński himself, whose party appointed you President of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: The Sejm chose.]] I would like to ask if you felt some discomfort in this situation. Do you think this is a normal situation in a democratic state of law? I would also like to ask you whether the words of Judge Moravian that you represent both the TK and the Polish government here are appropriate. Are the judges really also representing the government outside? I would also like to ask how many law and justice politicians you've hosted in your office as president of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: All of them.]] [[Your Marshal Terletsky, because he smiles all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u275	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Does the president want to speak? Please, Madam President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Julia Przyłębska. [[And you, on your knees and apologize to the president for insulting me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am addressing all of you, in particular those who have asked questions. I will start by saying that I am extremely sorry that there is no substantive discussion that you are instead using such arguments that have no justification in fact or in law. Therefore, to some questions, including discourses and insults, I will not refer at all. Nor will I answer questions that could rather be asked in the context of the provision of information on access to public information, because these are questions beyond the report. Therefore, this information should not be provided in this mode. On the other hand, when it comes to what you are questioning, you are talking about the judges you call understudy, once again: there are no double judges at the Constitutional Court. At the Constitutional Court in case K 16... [[Game in the O.R.]] If the judge, I apologize very much, Mr President, will listen to what I say, then perhaps next time he will not make any substantive errors. I will start by saying that in case K 16/16, a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was delivered in full from the Ombudsman's application. The Ombudsman did not withdraw his application and no separate sentences were made. I recommend this decision of your reflection. I also believe that it is unacceptable that Members of the Constitutional Tribunal, who constitute the law, issue judgments on behalf of the Constitutional Tribunal, without being at all entitled to do so. [[What are you talking about?]] This is causing a situation in which... Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the Chamber: But what judgments?]] Okay, I'll say it again. I'm not gonna... [[Voice from the room: We don't know.]] I'd like to... But I would like to ask you not to argue. [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister of Remembrance...]] I didn't disturb you during your speech. [[You're being rude. You're a guest and you're rude.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u277	Mrs Pomaska, I call you to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u278	I'm telling you again. There cannot be such a situation that someone determines whether a provision is constitutional or not, if he does not have the power to do so under the Constitution. And now, in answer to your specific questions, I will start by saying that, first of all, when it comes to prizes, they have been paid not at the amount of 2 million, but they have been paid at the level of the prizes paid in the previous year, in previous years. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We were responsible for...]] These are awards for the staff of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the situation is that the judges don't get any prizes. The next case concerns the dismissals of the staff of the Constitutional Tribunal in the context of the reorganisation carried out. The reorganisation was carried out in accordance with applicable law, on the basis of all statutory guidelines. In 113 people employed in the Court, only seven people were not presented with new working conditions and wages. It is such a situation that the information which one of the Members has presented here was false information. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] As far as issues related to tomorrow's ruling are concerned, this is absolutely not the case for the 2017 report. [[But we have the right to ask.]] When it comes to judging by Judge Zubik, it is not true that he does not receive cases. Mr. Zubik is assigned cases. He's only a judge subject to the Constitution. Consequently, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot either prohibit or force the Tribunal to apply any coercive measures to the judge. The judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is subject only to the Constitution, and not - like the judge of the General Court - also to the Act. In view of the fact that the Constitution does not give any opportunity to enforce judgment, the judge himself shapes the rhythm of the case-law. Next case. Some 40 regulations related to the change of compositions were cited here in January 2017. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are situations in the court's activities when one judge terminates and leaves, for example. Fifty cases. And what does the President of the Constitutional Tribunal do then? He makes arrangements on the basis of which these matters are assigned to a new judge who comes in his place, or to other judges, depending on how he evaluates matters relating to court proceedings. As regards the assignment of cases, the appointment of cases in alphabetical order, I recommend the content of the article to all. 38 Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. This provision does not end with a statement: in alphabetical order, but it goes on to say: taking into account the types, number and order of the impact of cases on the tribunal. The number of cases when it comes to the decency of all the judges... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Why not random?]] ...is balanced and judges, when it comes to the number of cases, are on an equal footing. So, as far as that's concerned, there's no violation of any laws. In accordance with this provision, the President of the Tribunal has the right, in view of the subject matter of the case under consideration, to appoint a Judge-Rapporteur who deviates from the criteria, as did President Rzepliński. Remember that in these key cases, concerning the laws governing the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, he appointed only judges who had previously worked in the Court without taking into account the so-called judges. new ones who had much less cases at the time and their choice would seem natural. But I'm not questioning it because it's the sole right of the president. The provision is so designed that the President does not justify the order and never the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has justified the provisions concerning the amendment or appointment of judges to formations. With regard to issues relating to freedom, case law, in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, these are not questions related to the 2017 report. I can only assure you that I have a sense of independence from and independence until and I have never been dependent. I've never been... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: How many times have you been to Nowogrodzka?]] Do you have any respect for this? I've never been dependent on any influence. In view of the above, these allegations are completely unfounded. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Don't stop!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't interrupt!]] All judges of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be independent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u279	Mrs Gasiuk, please calm down. You've had time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u280	In that case, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I wouldn't want to scream any more. Thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u281	Thank you very much, Chairman. The committee representative, Mr Marek Ast, will now speak. [[About Mr Piechota's question, right?]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! Unfortunately, today's debate was a mirrored reflection of the discussion that took place at the committee meeting. [[A mirror reflection.]] Those terms you used are difficult to describe differently than the language of contempt... [[Voice from the room: Hate.]] ... The language of hatred. [[Applause]] [[Speak to the words of Mrs. Pavlowicz.]] But it is even worse because in almost every speech you have questioned the legitimacy of the constitutional body. Legality, which was not contested by any body, no institution in the Republic of Poland. That's how you break the law. Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the information submitted, the comprehensive answers to a few substantive questions, and the fact that you have listened to this discussion with such patience. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There was a question for you about the disabled.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u283	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal on information shall not be put to a vote. I note that the Sejm took note of the information provided by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs: - on the parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war periods and certain other laws, - on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and certain other laws, - on the Senate bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the law on road traffic, - on a government bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and certain other laws (prints Nos 428, 1888, 2523, 2671 and 3279). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u284	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of post-war repression and some other laws, print No 428, on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws, print No 1888, on the Senate bill amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression, and the Law on road traffic, print No 2523, and on the Government bill amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression and some other laws, print No 2671. At its 17th meeting on 29 April 2016, the Sejm sent a draft law from print No 428 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. At its 50th meeting on 27 October 2017, the Sejm also referred the draft law from print No. 1888 to that committee for consideration. At its 67th meeting, held on 19 July 2018, in accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm referred the draft law from print No. 2671 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 19 July 2016, the committee addressed to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Social Policy a draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and certain other acts contained in print No 428. In the course of the work, the subcommittee adopted a proposal to postpone the work on this project until a government project to solve the veterans' case comprehensively entered into force. On 12 December 2017, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy sent to the Commission subcommittee a draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and certain other laws contained in print No 1888. The committee received further projects on veteran affairs: the Senate, contained in print No.2523, whose first reading was carried out by the committee, and the government in print No.2671. The Commission has decided to refer these projects to the subcommittee for joint consideration. The Commission has also adopted a resolution on the basis of Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on joint examination of the projects in prints Nos 428, 1888, 2523 and 2671. The Commission chose as the leading project the government project contained in print No 2671. On 12 March, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs rejected the amendments tabled during the examination of the report of the Permanent Sub-Committee. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering all the projects and reports, asks the High Sejm to adopt the report in accordance with print No 3279. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u285	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. What took you so long? I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anita Czerwińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and certain other laws, prints Nos 428, 1888, 2523, 2671 and 3279. The main objectives of this project are as follows. The first objective is to make a number of changes concerning updating, clarifying, deleting non-essential provisions and simplifying procedures for the recognition of applications for the status of combatant and victim of repression and to enable administrative proceedings to resume in the event of the emergence of new documents. The next objective of the Act is to help the disabled with their allowance for invalidity pensions and the possibility for pension authorities to provide benefits to the disabled living abroad. The next objective is to expand the list of powers for politically repressed soldiers in 1949 and 1959 who were forced to work in coal mines, quarryings, uranium ore plants and construction battalions. Another important issue is the monetary assistance of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed for deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the authorities of the Third Reich and the USSR, who are in a difficult material situation. Another important issue is to allow the civilian blind victims of war activities in difficulty to receive financial assistance from the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons and to grant them a lump sum of energy. Another issue is the coincidence of benefits for entitled persons and the processing of personal data. Another issue is to deform the recovery of the books of the war invalid for all those veterans who have been issued the legitimacy of the oppressed as a result of misinterpretation of the rules. The last regulated issue is the right to a parking card for veterans fighting for independence, which results from the state's obligation to provide special care to those who, with weapons in hand, risking their lives and health, defended the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Poland. It is also reasonable to extend the right to this parking card to those who drive veterans. Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I propose amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u287	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Sławomir Piechot will now speak on behalf of the PO-KO Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u288	On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, Mr Marshal, I have the honour to present a position with Mrs Frydrych on the state of work on a package of laws defining the powers of combatants and repressed persons. It is clear that the Polish state should take care of the deserved for our freedom and independence and the harmed by the authoritarian and hostile authorities of the Polish nation. Our history, especially the last two hundred and several decades, has marked the tragic impact on the lives of many generations of our citizens. The last century of regained independence is also a time when independence had to be fought for many times, and at the same time many were wronged by the power. These people must always be remembered and provided with constant support, and solutions should be adapted and updated to the needs of those to be served, as well as to the growing opportunities of the state. To the extent that assistance to combatants and oppressed persons is increased and the rules and procedures applied are simplified and consistent with other aid schemes, e.g. as regards health services or the care system for independent persons, we support the new regulations introduced. At this stage of the work, we are proposing amendments on two main issues: on solutions addressed to miners' soldiers and the whole circle of people similarly repressed until 1959, as well as on rules and procedures for allocating documents confirming rights to combatants, which are identical to those granted to disabled persons on the basis of a parking card. As regards the miners' soldiers and those repressed until 1959, we believe that solutions should be put in place, which the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition proposed more than 3 years ago, in a bill submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm at the end of 2015, which was given a print number in March 2016, 3 years ago. [[And eight years wasn't enough?]] We believe that there is no other justification today, separate, which is worse, for the treatment of miners' soldiers than other people being oppressed. We believe that the easiest solution, which will end with worse treatment of these people, will be to include miners' soldiers in the law on combatants and repressed persons. These persons should receive the same benefits and have the same powers as other persons being repressed. This is the first package of our amendments. The second objective is to introduce the same rules as for disabled persons for granting permissions to use a mobile parking card. We believe that many practical experiences, presented especially by the police, but also by organisations of persons with disabilities, indicate that this mode, which has been applied to disabled persons when issuing a parking card, should also be applied, if the same, the same powers are granted to other persons, in this case to combatants. After all, the point is that those who receive this right should be able to exercise this right in real terms to limit it, because they can never be eliminated completely, situations where such powers are exercised by those who do not need it and who, without proper authority, abuse someone's parking card. And that is why I am proposing a second package of amendments, which concerns precisely this issue, in order, firstly, to issue these cards for a fixed period of not more than 5 years, so that, secondly, those who receive such a right declare that they do not have a regular parking card so as not to issue double parking cards, because then it is clear that this second parking card can serve a parallel circulation and, finally, that, thirdly, this combatant's parking card is easy to identify for the police and other control services, whether such a right is actually exercised by the person to whom it belongs. This is the case with two sets of amendments which I am sending through the secretariat of the meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u289	Thank you very much. Ms Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u290	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Continuing to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to draw attention to another group that PiS promised to help. They're Siberians. For eight years of your presence in the opposition, you had the Sibiraks, making them promises to help, and you knew you wouldn't fulfill that promise. Since 2009, you have promised to support them primarily in cash. In 2013 your project was created on an additional amount of PLN 400 per month for all Siberians. What does it look like after almost three and a half years of your government? In November 2018, the presidential project, which provides for an allowance of PLN 200 for each month of delivery for those who are being repressed - what? - half the size of ten years ago, and it's in the freezer. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In March 2016, our draft law providing support to combatants and oppressed persons entered the Marshal's staff. Today is March 2019. You've wasted three years, three long years, in which you've been able to deal with laws that benefit only and only to you at a rapid pace. It's a good thing we're investigating this bill today, but do we have a well-known need for veterans? In addition to financial support, it would be appropriate to focus also on specialised medical assistance, long-term care, preference in granting benefits, e.g. Rehabilitation, not pushing other people out of the queue. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that the bill is moving in the right direction, it is very much needed, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will support this proposal and request that our amendments be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u291	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz parliamentary club15 against the procedated government print project No. 2671, the government bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression. Of course, this project is a collective project. This is a project that was created from earlier four other projects, projects that were submitted throughout this term of office. As far as I can remember, I think the first one was from print No. 428 and was subject to a procedure in 2016. This is a very long-awaited project by the combatant environment. For a very long time, these people, the combatant environments, have been asking for a number of entries included in this project, which are very needed. Of course, our difficult history and all that is involved in this very often marked a huge stigma on the lives of people who really suffered many, many health and moral losses. Everything they sacrificed to their homeland, they sacrificed so that we could live. The fact that we can stand here and talk now, we owe it to these people and they deserve adequate protection and support from the state. Many of the laws that had appeared before and related to the Kombatantian environment were partial regulations. Most often they did not include all groups, most often they contained only some solutions which, at that time, could be said, were adapted to such, rather than different legal situation, the surroundings of these people, veterans. On the other hand, this law contains a number of provisions that really sort things out, in fact extends the catalogue of people that we take into account, which require state support. There have been issues of granting aid, support, the allowance for invalidity pensions for war invalids, people who have lost their health. There are a lot of records about the granting of allowances here, and a group of people for whom these powers are necessary are also extended. On the other hand, my doubts, our doubts, raise one right. It is difficult to talk about this right, because when it comes to solving the issue of parking cards, as Mr Piechot mentioned earlier, it is so that by pointing to this provision, we can, I don't know, feel in such a way that we are against any right to give them to these people. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to what was also highlighted in the legislative work by the organisations of people with disabilities, people with disabilities moving independently, moving in wheelchairs. When it comes to parking cards, the history of parking cards, the history of special privileges for people who cannot move on their own, only have to use the means of transport to reach school, work, shop, that is to say, to meet the basic needs, did not involve giving some special privilege, but involved only one fundamental problem. Those who have difficulty moving simply did not have access to the basic needs of life. There's been a lot of abuse on this issue. And it's absolutely not my goal here to show that the veterans' environment... Because that's the kind of environment we're talking about. It is so positive that it will not be such a large group of people, it is not the whole combatant environment, but actually a group of older people, and I assume that at this age, very old, most of them have difficulty moving because it is difficult for 90-year-olds to suspect that they have no problem moving. Nevertheless, looking at what the Association of Integration was doing, what other organizations were doing... They indicated that the verification of these cards by certain services was sometimes difficult, because such a card is left behind the window, there is no such person when the services check whether the car standing on the envelope has the authority. I would like to say - perhaps Mr Piechota will be able to say more on this subject - that the person who moves in a wheelchair must have such a special place not because she so wants it to be more comfortable, just because she can't open the door very often when she gets out, and this is the width of this envelope. That person won't open the door, so he can't park there. On the other hand, a person who has less difficulty moving, e.g. He can get off there with the help of another person, just open this door. So if you do not want to conflict or put these two groups on two sides of the barricade that we are talking about, you may want to consider and start proceding - it is to the Minister - some solutions that will really solve the problem of too few parking places for people with disabilities. Because that's the problem. I know that it is the responsibility of the local government very often, while during the work of the committee there were proposals to introduce a law that could provide free parking spaces for veterans, for veterans in all possible accesses, or to introduce some other solutions that would not take these parking spaces. That's what I'm paying attention to. Of course, Kukiz15 will support this law because it is difficult not to support this law, indeed it has a lot of good solutions. On the other hand, it is worth considering, because this problem of the parking space will still be there and he will be able to solve it. And unfortunately, for example. I can say that parking spaces have recently disappeared in the city of Krakow, so local governments do not apply this policy either. [[Voice from the hall: To local governments.]] Yeah, but... Madam President, I know that this is for local governments, but it often happens that we can, on behalf of this House, point out some concrete solutions to local governments. And that's possible, too. So maybe it's worth talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u293	Thank you very much. You will now speak to the Member... No, Mr Krystian Jarubas will not speak because he has made his speech in writing. Now Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position towards the parliamentary bill, the Commission's bill, the Senate bill, the government bill and the bill presented by the subcommittee for the social policy of the draft law amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war repression and post-war periods and some other laws. We are of the opinion that the bill is needed and emphasizes the importance of each of the people who fought for Poland's sovereignty and security. The basis of the State's action is to provide reliable care to persons who have been awarded outstanding activities and even have been able to give their lives in the name of the functioning of the independent Republic of Poland. It welcomes the approach in which we significantly extend the scope of certain provisions, such as: to take into account the health situation of combatants. The rules extend aid to living veterans and provide real support in their daily lives in the country for which they have devoted their health. It is also a support for families of those who have fallen in the name of safe Poland. We welcome the proposal for the wording of the article. 12a Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families, thanks to which an allowance of PLN 850 will be payable to the invalidity pension. Every zloty of support for these people is a duty of the state and we have no doubt that this is a right and necessary change. However, we are not able to go past some of the inconsistencies contained in the draft subcommittee law, which I would like to emphasise in my speech. All these projects relate to combatants and victims of war and post-war repression. It is worth noting that it is important to honor these people and their surroundings with special care from the state because of their contribution to regaining independence and fighting for free Poland. And while those who were being repressed were directly in the territory of the Republic of Poland or were being exported from the territory of the country to places of isolation in the territories of the Soviet Union, war veterans - like the present veterans - served the Polish people outside the borders, taking part in e.g. In the fights at Monte Cassino or in the Middle East. On the one hand - what is important and worth paying attention here - we are dealing with people who are leaving this world before our eyes, and on the other hand, when it comes to the supply of foreign mission veterans, it is still stored in the seym freezer. We give powers to combatants and repressed people, for example. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1), which reads: periodic monetary assistance may be intended in particular to meet living needs and to protect health in the case of a long-term disease resulting in an increase in the cost of living, buying medicines, dressings and commuting to medical and rehabilitation facilities. So benefits can be granted regardless of the cause of the disease. This depends mainly on the living needs and costs of this disease. However, assistance to foreign mission veterans depends on the health damage caused by the activities carried out in the course of the tasks. Moreover, in the following section, we read that: periodic monetary aid may be used in particular to pay for the care necessary for age and health. On the other hand, we limit access to this assistance to service veterans outside the country, making it dependent on the degree of their disability, not e.g. from general health. Calculations in Article The 18th draft law, which was drafted by the subcommittee, is incomprehensible. In 2020 there is a decrease of 30,000. PLN compared to 2019, by 10,000 in 2021. zł compared to the previous year. In the following years, the fall below the set limit no longer occurs, which is not understandable between 2021 and 2028. Especially since, for example, in the following points concerning the Social Security Office, the CRUS, the Pension Office of the Prison Service or the Pension and Pension Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, this decrease is visible in different years and is not logically arranged. Both veterans or repressed persons and foreign mission veterans in draft laws should be treated as a single recipient. The way in which the privileges of all these groups are honoured should be harmonised. It must be taken into account that all these people have contributed and contributed to the freedom and sovereignty of Poland and the security of its citizens. Both combatants and foreign mission veterans fought not only in the country but also in many parts of the world. Repressed people fought for democratic changes in Poland as they did and did foreign missions veterans in other countries around the world. Disabled combatants and veterans injured during foreign missions face similar or the same health problems. Both veterans' widows or those who were repressed and soldiers' widows who took part in foreign missions buried men who sacrificed their lives for their homeland. Special support is needed not only for the widows of those soldiers who are often middle-aged, but also for their parents and children. Another problem that exists among widows is the problem of getting a pension from a fallen soldier. [[This isn't about...]] I know, I know. This witness can be obtained only after many criteria have been met, among others. Proving that death was caused by a criminal act, which is often impossible because of difficulties in carrying out a full investigation by the prosecution. As a result, the only means to sustain the fallen soldier's family during a foreign mission are often the widow's income from employment in a military unit. I also have a question about the legislative process. Why are we discussing these changes so late? The projects were presented a few years ago and were now remembered. What made them decide to work on them at this very moment? We can only guess. Finally, I would like to highlight one more point, particularly in the context of the government's current historical policy. Why Article 1 is repealed from the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period. 1 paragraph 2 item 2, which says that it is considered as a combatant activity to participate in Polish military formations and organizations in the First World War, in national uprisings and fights for the recovery or maintenance of territories of the Republic of Poland? As a result of this change we deprive the honorary title of the veteran of all those who died who gave their lives in the fight for their homeland during World War I, all national uprisings and fights for regaining the territory of the Republic of Poland or maintaining its coherence. They are dead, they are no longer among us, but symbolic deprivation of their title can be taken as an insult to their descendants, and above all to free Poland, for which they gave their lives. This gesture undoubtedly hits the memory of heroes who can no longer speak on their behalf. It is our duty to remind them of their deeds in their name. The draft law of the subcommittee is needed, although, as you can see, there are also content for which we need clarification. However, there is no doubt that the state's social assistance should be provided to combatants or their families as a gesture of respect for those who have sacrificed their health or life in the name of Poland's security and sovereignty. Our duty as representatives of the nation is to care for them and provide them with decent living conditions. The Modern Club will vote in favour of the draft law prepared by the Permanent Sub-Committee on Social Policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u295	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, club, excuse me, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of post-war repression and some other laws, print No. 428, the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the supply of war and military invalids and their families and some other laws, print No. 1888, the Senate bill amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression, and the Law on Road Traffic, print No. 2523, and the Government bill amending the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war and post-war repression and some other laws, print No. 2671. The new rules regulate the situation of combatants and victims of war and post-war repression. The project proposes a number of financial solutions, such as: the allowance payable to the invalidity pension in the amount of PLN 850, or the possibility for pension authorities to pay benefits to disabled persons living abroad. In addition, it is also envisaged to extend the scope of the Act on Combatants of Soldiers, who in the 1950s for political reasons were forced to work in coal mines, quarrying or uranium ore plants and to grant members of the Veterans' Corps the fight for Independence of the Republic of Poland with the card of the Veteran the right to park in places intended for disabled people. This amendment contains solutions that have been presented in four projects: parliamentary, Senate, Commission and Government, so there are many proposed changes. I have no doubt that all are needed and that they are long awaited by the environment concerned. Veterans fight for the independence and sovereignty of our country we owe respect and recognition. By designing rules that facilitate their daily lives and protect their basic needs, we express our gratitude and show that we do not forget their sacrifice. For them, our country's freedom was the highest value. Today we are fulfilling our duty of memory and honor to heroes who have shown heroism and faithfulness to their homeland, and through their surroundings we teach our children and grandchildren patriotic attitudes and respect for history. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the proposed solutions. Moreover, given that the beneficiaries of this law are people of late age and that there are fewer and fewer people each year, I trust that further investigation of these regulations will be effective enough to allow them to enter into force as soon as possible and provide real assistance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u297	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, is the first person to ask. I don't see your MP. [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2017, the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising received a significant, dramatic appeal from the president of the World Union of Soldiers of the National Army Leszek Żukowski. The President said: If no steps are taken to ensure that the insurgents have a safe old age, then it may happen that the heroes will die in oblivion. Figuratively speaking, somewhere under the fence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that actually since this call of 2017 the Warsaw government has assumed responsibility for Warsaw insurgents. It is a Warsaw government since 1 January Ub. he finances the stays of the Warsaw insurgents, the combatants in social services homes in full, 100%. The proposal was, of course, to finance half the government, half the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, you have given up your responsibility for the local government and Warsaw has fully fulfilled this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u299	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments to these laws have been announced since 2016. It's been three years and the rules have still not been adopted. Why do these amendments take so long and when can we expect them to be completed? The draft amendments address the issue of helping veterans and veterans very selectively. They usually grant rights and allowances only to the most injured, the most injured, and ignore those less injured and other participants in the mission. The rules also do not include participants, international committees and the oldest veterans from missions in Korea and Indochina. I therefore ask the question: Is it planned to complement the drafts of these regulations to cover the rights and allowances of all veterans? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u301	Mr Sławomir Piechota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u302	Minister! For those affected by this law, a particular problem, a particular need is care, caring aid, because many of these people because of their age and health These are people who are independent. In this context, it is more necessary to ask, stubbornly and still, why the PiS does not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014 concerning benefits for carers of disabled persons. Many of these guardians are on trial. By judicial means, they obtain confirmation of their right to benefits in the same amount as those for carers of disabled children. Is it true that each of these guardians must, on a case-by-case basis, demand what, after all, the Members of the Law and Justice have demanded from the Constitutional Tribunal? After all, it was the Members of the Law and Justice who demanded this judgment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there even any chance in this end-of-term term to regulate this matter systematically? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u303	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Will the bill on which we are proceeding also include former military substitute soldiers employed in coal mines, quarrying, construction battalions? What benefits will miners' soldiers receive from the Combating Act after they have been covered by their regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u305	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I'd like to ask you in my question about the wives of the war veterans who have walked the entire battle route. Today they are widows. At one time, they were able to choose one pension and get a 50% allowance for the other. Then it was withdrawn, and today the situation is that these 90-year-old people who are ill can benefit from one pension: either after their husband or theirs, because their ladies too have worked out. It's a row of greatness today, you can say, a thousand people, that's not a problem. However, the problem is to pay attention to this, because these widows today are on the brink of poverty. They don't have anything to buy drugs for. Is there any way to take that into account? Because it's a basic issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u307	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to bring up the veterans. I can't not move her, because I'm from Bielsko-Biała, and every citizen of our region is proud of the fact that we have 18. Bielski Air Force Battalion. This battalion is a cause for pride not only for the inhabitants of our region, but also for all Poles. It was this battalion that was our forpost in NATO. Every day it is a reason to be proud of how a Polish soldier can function in the modern world, and as I said, it meant his way in many places. And I wanted to ask if the veterans, including the 18th Battalion, would be able to count on treatment like the veterans, because they deserved it. We all know history. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from Karbala, who was popularized. I think they just deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Zielenecki will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u310	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of all parliamentary clubs and circles for supporting the draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and postwar repression. The words of thanks belong to the members of the subcommittee, who worked very hard and substantively on this project, considering both the parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and the Senate project, as well as the Commission's draft, which was addressed by the Committee on Petitions, as well as the government project, which constituted a kind of binder, a kind of decoupling act, harmonising the solutions contained in all three projects previously submitted. Of course, I would also like to thank those who have submitted these projects - the Senate and the Committee on Petitions. I would also like to thank the Members who have taken the appropriate initiative. I would like to say that the project we are discussing today is implementing the art standard. 19 constitutions guaranteeing the veterans a fight for independence, especially for the invalids of war... The Constitution stresses the special role, the special merits of war disabilities. He is fulfilling the obligation on the Republic of Poland, to be surrounded by special care by the authorities of the Republic of Poland just veterans fighting for independence. It is a project that covers a group of around 25 thousand. persons belonging to the widely understood Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland. The project, which, as far as its most important assumptions are concerned, provides for the allocation of around 2.5 thousand. Invalidity of war rights to the allowance to a war disability pension of PLN 850. As far as the next group covered by this law is concerned, they are soldiers who are forced to be employed during the period of military replacement service in mines. This is a group of about 17,000. persons. To these persons, the law grants the right to a uniform payment of money - in place of the difference so far according to the number of months of forced labour - of PLN 215.84 as well as the right to a compensatory allowance. The group, which was covered by the provisions of this law, is about 230 civilian blind victims of war, which will be granted the right to a lump sum of PLN 168,71 under the provisions of this law. I mentioned these four projects. For three projects, i.e. to the parliamentary project, the Senate project and the committee project, the Council of Ministers issued an opinion during the work on them, issued an official position. In all positions, the Council of Ministers has made a declaration of the preparation of statutory arrangements conferring in the existing law governing the powers of forced-hired soldiers - the same applies to the invalids of war and military, as well as the law on combatants - powers similar to those of the oppressed, while maintaining the legal status quo for widows after forced-hired soldiers. As regards the position, a similar position was formulated with regard to the draft implementing the proposals contained in the Commission's proposal concerning the allowance to the pension of a war disability. This project implements this declaration, which has been formulated several times in the official positions of the Council of Ministers. I should also address thanks to representatives of interested communities, unions that bring together both war and military invalids, combatants and soldiers of miners forced to employ during military replacement service in mines. It can be said that their participation in meetings and the Parliamentary Committee and the subcommittees that worked on these projects was very visible, very important. I am also referring here to the official written positions that have been put forward during the work on these projects. During the discussion several times, there was a question of parking cards, which would deserve to be granted to members of the veterans' corps on the basis of this project. I think that a few information about the number of people, as well as the structure of the age group of people to whom this solution will be addressed, will allow us to understand the intentions as well as the nature of the proposal contained in the project. With regard to the number of people who have the status of a veteran fighting for independence, who will formally be able to apply for this right, this is the number estimated by us for about 25 thousand, and the assumption that we accepted was that not all people would want to exercise this right for various reasons, e.g. because of age, but also because they are not owners or users of a mechanical vehicle. The number of people to whom this solution is addressed is estimated at about 4 000. We need to remember that this is a group of people whose average age is about 97 years. We view this solution as a dignified, symbolic solution, a solution that will allow those very often independent, disabled people to use the ability to move, to move with motor vehicles. So we recommend that, as I say, the High House adopt this solution and we pay attention to the dignity of this proposal. The issue of exemption from parking fees was raised during the discussion. You have also rightly pointed out that local government units are already entitled today to exempt certain categories of people, residents, from such parking fees. In this respect, there is no need to amend the provisions of the Veterans Act. There was also a thread concerning the combination of pensions and invalidity pensions, with the disability pension. This solution remains in the Act on Retirement Provision of War Disabilities, while its scope is limited to a person with war disability status. In short, such a person, if he has fulfilled the conditions for the acquisition of the right to both benefits, to the pension of the invalid and to the pension, may combine the collection of both benefits. This solution today does not transfer to family pensions after those who have benefited from the status of a war disability because the family pension is a derived benefit. This is the benefit that is due to the death of the host family. Of course, we keep these widows' rights. The widow may take advantage of the possibility of collecting such a derivative benefit, but so far it will not be possible to combine the collection of this benefit with the second benefit, which is the pension for war invalidity. There were questions about the project about sibiraks, as well as projects about foreign mission veterans. These are not, you can say, projects which concern matter which is the subject of today's discussion of the provisions of the law. In fact, I should like to refer to Mr Piechota's comment on the rights of persons with disabilities. I would like to assure you that we are working on solutions that will take account of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, but we want these to be systemic solutions. So that we are putting in the general context this request, which you have formulated, in the general context of the system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u311	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u312	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Shortly, I just wanted to thank all the clubs very warmly, because we're all really all in favour of this project. I particularly thank those clubs who have read it with understanding and got into this complicated matter, because four completely diverse, yet with the same theme, projects were a difficult task. Thank you very much for this, of course, to all the clubs. I will not thank the Warsaw government because this is due to the deliberations of the committee of inquiry. reprivatisation. I'm not gonna be happy that those veterans who have been deprived of their homes have found a place in the welfare home. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u313	Thank you very much. Do you want to correct your question? [[Corrigendum to parking cards.]] You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u314	Minister! I'm here about the parking cards, so there's no doubt. We do not question the granting of this right to members of the combat veterans' corps, but we believe that it is rational and fair to apply procedures that concern people with disabilities, that is all we want. The point is that when applying for a combatant card, which will confer rights such as those resulting from a parking card, the person makes a statement that there is no ordinary parking card, and that the combatant cards are issued for a period of 5 years, and after 5 years resumed, because this is the only effective way to verify that this person is still functioning. Previously, the big problem, difficult to spot by anyone, was to determine that someone was using a dead person's card. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the only way. It's these procedural changes we're asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u315	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In most European countries, there are laws that provide for the special care of veterans of wars waged by these countries and those persecuted. However, the scope of these benefits is different in each country. As a rule, these are cash benefits and various types of relief and facilitation. Thus, although, in principle, the proposed solutions are common on a European scale, they do not have their counterparts in the legislation of other countries in detail. Nevertheless, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland clearly indicates that the natural and inalienable dignity of man is inviolable, and its respect and protection are the responsibility of public authorities. Therefore, the project that we are currently dealing with is very important. It concerns the aid provided for those who once put their health and their lives at risk, fighting for free Poland. Today they often need the care of the state and they are not in a position to finance the care they need. Today, we face a number of fundamental challenges with regard to the revision of the rules governing the powers of veterans. These include, in particular, updating and clarifying the rules, removing unused rules and introducing a number of simplifications. The aim is to simplify procedures for the recognition of applications for the status of combatant and victim of repression, to allow the renewal of administrative proceedings in the event of the emergence of new documents on matters within longer periods than provided for in the Code of Administrative Procedure. The regulations deal with the issue of assisting the disabled by granting them the right to the allowance of a pension to an invalidity pension and introducing the possibility for pension bodies to provide benefits to disabled people living abroad, to extend the catalogue of rights granted by the authorities of the Third Reich and the USSR, who are in a difficult material situation, to receive financial assistance from the Head of the Office for Combatants and Workers, finally to allow the civilian victims of war, who are in a difficult material situation, to receive financial assistance from the Head of the Office for Combatants and the Repressed Persons, and to grant them additional benefits - a lump of energy, as well as to regulate issues related to the co-operation of anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for these reasons. It is also important to simplify procedures and thus to allow the recovery of the books of the invalid war to all those veterans who have been issued the legitimacy of the oppressed as a result of misinterpretation of the rules. In our view, the changes are fully justified and forced over time, which is why the PSL Club will support these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u317	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Public Roads Act, print No 3273. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (Prints No. 3181 and 3231). I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u318	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I have the honour to present a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, print No 3181. The amendments contained in the draft resolution concern a number of issues. The first issue is related to the entry into force of the Personal Data Protection Act. Following the establishment of a new body, the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, it has become necessary to adapt the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm by taking into account this new name of the Authority. The amended provisions concern the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, the procedure for consenting to be held liable for the offence or offence, or the arrest of the person performing that function, and the rules for the participation and voting of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data in meetings of the Sejm. The second group of amendments aims to regulate the procedures for examining the information, reports and reports referred to in Article submitted to the Sejm by the institutions and authorities of the State authority. Article 126a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) In accordance with the proposed rules, the Commission for Special Services is to be empowered to identify such documents. The point is to extend the article. 126a. The Commission for Special Services shall, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, examine and analyse the operation and operation and exercise control over the special services. There are institutions that we can say, both in literature and in the common sense of the word, we can view as special services, although de facto special services are not. However, they have different types of powers, which the special services have, in the case of operations and reconnaissance. Therefore, a proposal was made for the committee to take a resolution initiative to amend this article. If reports of this nature are sent to the Marshal of the Sejm, which relate to operational and exploratory activities, this is to ensure that such documents are transmitted to the Commission for Special Services. The second amendment proposed is an amendment to the Annex, which mentions documents on operational and exploratory activities and extends clauses on prevention activities and activities. Of course, if the committee agrees to such proposals, this will help to put both the law system and the scrutiny that Parliament has. The Commission has accepted such proposals. Finally, the last, third issue included in the draft resolution. It concerns increasing access to parliamentary work not only at the stage of detailed examination of draft legislation, but also on other issues related, for example. with a control function, by creating and making available in the Sejm Information System the full records of the session of the Sejm subcommittees. It is proposed that the resolution enter into force on the date of its adoption, with the exception of Article. Point 1 (4) on the preparation of the full record of each subcommittee meeting, which is proposed to enter into force on the first day of the term of office of the Sejm following the term of office during which this resolution entered into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u319	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in a pleasant obligation to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and in particular on prints 3181 and 3231 concerning the draft Commission resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Szyłko presented in very detail the scope of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to say that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes these changes which concern the replacement of words: the General Data Protection Officer by the words: the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data in both Article. 29 as well as in Article. 130, in Article 13 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 169, in Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) in Article 4 (1) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) of Regulation (iv) in Article 4 (1) (iv) (iv) of Regulation (EU) (iv) (iv) of the first subparagraph (iv) of the first subparagraph (iv) of The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice also fully supports the changes contained in the amendment of the second Article. 1 the information, reports and reports referred to in Article. Article 126a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Finally, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the changes contained in Article. Amendment 1 of the fourth amendment concerning the preparation of full transcripts of the subcommittee meeting. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u322	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club to present my position on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, contained in print No 3181. Three amendments are included in this draft resolution. First, technical, changing name: General Data Protection Officer to: President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. This is an obvious change that is beyond doubt. The second amendment states that the Sejm Office will draw up records of the subcommittee meetings, which will later be included in the Sejm Information System. For many years now, the subcommittee's meetings have been recorded for several years. This is a reminder of the fact that it was difficult to find out who had tabled an amendment at the subcommittee meeting years ago, today a symbolic, legendary: or journals. And since then, the subcommittee meetings have been recorded so that the transparency of the legislative process can be maintained. On the other hand, there are no records made out of them, and they are not made available. Of course, the transparency of public life, the transparency of the legislative process is an important issue, even if we have to expect it to cost money. Because, given even the reality of last year, when costs amounted to about PLN 0.5 million, and the subcommittees did not work much, because the draft laws go to the Sejm and are adopted by committees instantly, you can expect that these costs will be higher. But of course, that doesn't raise our doubts. The third change, which speaks of proceding, information, reports or reports to the Sejm, which includes operational and cognitive activities, raises doubts. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm state precisely how the Sejm deals with reports and information submitted by the Supreme Chamber of Control, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, the Constitutional Tribunal, the President of the Supreme Court, the National Council of Courts, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child or the President of the NBP, and in general mention that in the case of other information, reports and reports, the Sejm may review them, and all these reports and reports shall be delivered to Members. The proposed amendment states that if the information of other institutions, not specifically mentioned earlier, contains records resulting from operational and exploratory activities, they will be sent to the Commission for Special Services and will therefore not be made available to other Members, and thus the above mentioned provision will not be operational. There is no explanation of the origin of this amendment in the justification for the draft resolution, which is laconic. It was presented by the President of the Committee on Special Services at a committee meeting. Mr President drew attention to the interesting problem that, as far as I am aware, he has been sent to the Marshal of the Sejm for two years the information of the head of the National Tax Administration, which contains this information, saying in quotes, the tax intelligence resulting from the operation and diagnosis, and this information is not directed by the Marshal of the Sejm to any committee. It is not addressed to the Committee on Public Finance, as it has a strictly secret clause, nor is it addressed to the Committee on Special Services, which does not have the powers laid down in the Rules of Procedure. While appreciating the Head of the Special Services Commission for paying attention to an important problem, we are, however, expressing doubts about this change for two reasons. Firstly, it is possible to express, in the experience of this term of office, the concern that this provision will not be able to cover up various information and reports, since it can be concluded that this information was based on operational and operational operations, that it would be classified in a strictly confidential way and would then only be sent to the Commission for Special Services. However, even rejecting this concern, it seems that the Commission for Special Services does not seem appropriate to analyse the information of the head of the National Tax Administration. Perhaps another solution should be found, perhaps within the Committee on Public Finance, to set up a subcommittee, perhaps to recommend that the head of the institution should create information that does not reveal details of intelligence, because it seems that operational information in this report is nevertheless in minority, and there is valuable information on which the Committee on Public Finance should lean. Therefore, Mr Marshal, on behalf of the club, I wanted to make amendments to this draft resolution aimed at deleting these entries, deleting points 2 and lit. and from point 8, that is to say, the deletion of this area, where it is said that reports containing intelligence will only be sent to the Commission for Special Services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Kukiz.15. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on the committee draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints no. 3181 and 3231. High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure concerns three areas. First, the power to examine periodic information, reports or reports on the activities of state institutions and bodies other than special services, including information obtained in the course of their operational and exploratory activities and preventive activities, shall be added to the scope of the Commission's activities in the Special Services. Secondly, the draft introduces an obligation to draw up the minutes of the subcommittee meetings, which is currently not regulated. This change will enter into force from the new term of office of the Sejm. Third, in connection with the implementation of the GDPR, the name of the office from GIODO is changed to PUODO. High Izbo! The third shift doesn't cause any controversy. As for the second one, it could be accepted here by some of my honourable speakers that the question of meetings or even the question of subcommittees has been quite marginalized in the case of projects. It turns out that all this tedious legislative work often takes place at committee meetings. This is obviously not conducive to the substantive value of the projects and it is good that, from the new term of office, it will be included in the Rules of Procedure to draw up protocols. This, of course, today operates on this principle, I would say, general. On the other hand, we should consider and consider - of course, there is a pebble in the garden of the majority of the parliament - whether or not we should return to this good practice, that the projects are considered by subcommittees, where there is a substantive discussion with specialists, there is more time for problems arising in the process of dealing with various kinds of laws to be considered from one, the other, the third party, so that the law could be better. On the other hand, as regards the third amendment, mentioned by me as the first proposal for changes in the operation of the Commission for Special Services, the proposed new power to examine periodic information, reports or reports on the activities of institutions and public authorities other than special services, containing information obtained in the course of their operational and exploratory activities and preventive activities, may mean that the substantive documents, due to their content appropriate to other committees, will be sent to the Commission for Special Services and may be considered without appropriate substantive knowledge. That is also what my esteemed speakers have been talking about. Here was an example of documentation prepared by the head of the National Tax Administration, which I understand lies in the Sejm and is not considered. However, such, I would say, a mechanical transfer of these powers to only this one committee could cause the Sejm to be in conflict with the demand for a fair exercise of control functions by the High House. And here, of course. This question is still valid, because it is difficult to imagine that the members of the Committee on Special Services will have or already have knowledge so transversal today that they are able to assess the various aspects, they are able to draw the necessary information that specialists would draw from all these reports that will flow to this committee. So this draft regulation today we are assessing, I would say, as somewhere out there meeting the needs that exist, because someone has to consider these reports, while we have very serious doubts that this parliamentary control function will not suffer from this. And I'm talking about it right here. That is why I am asking the majority of the parliament to re-examine this - I know that there is a complex amendment in this matter - so that really this, I would say, inflation of parliamentarianism in Poland is stopped somewhere, because today committees work in a mechanical way, in many cases there is no debate, ministers behave as if the implementation of projects by the High House was only a technical issue. In the meantime, it is here in the High House that decisions should be made. And this control function is also very important in a democratic legal state. So I am appealing here to re-examine the benefits of such a right or possibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a substantive reference to the documents presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u325	Thank you very much. One Member has asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. And this question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Well, if you're not here, then your rapporteur isn't answering either. [[May I?]] No, he's answering. There you go. Rapporteur for the committee Mrs Halina Szydleko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Commission! I would just like to refer to the remarks made by the Member on the National Tax Administration. The National Tax Administration has a search and investigation authority. These are materials. It's classified. Each Member has access to classified information, but only Members who work in the Committee on Special Services have access to top secret information. That is why this amendment is proposed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u327	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity for the purpose of submitting a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Public Roads Act (Prints No. 3259 and 3273). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Parliament's Infrastructure Committee on Seym Printing No 3259. It's a draft law on amending the Public Road Act. The draft law was adopted today by the Infrastructure Commission after a discussion, a major discussion, and recommends that the draft be adopted further. I think I even know that some of your fellow Members will continue to ask questions about this bill. That is very good, because there is nothing to prevent this project from being explored, although at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk explained all the issues relating to this project. In my opinion, he explained them with his team in a very professional way. I think that the discussion that took place at the committee meeting was very fruitful, but this discussion that will be here is perhaps also needed. The true virtue of criticism is not afraid, and if we are talking about the project, let us simply say that it is a project very strongly embedded in Polish, European law, a project very much needed, a project which has its excellent justification, and a project which does not interfere with anybody's improvement of the law resulting in the fact that the revenue to the state budget from the collection of fees will simply increase. Mr. Marshal! I recommend that this bill be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u329	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Bravo.]] I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Grzegorz Puda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[And the minister? Is the government represented?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u330	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Public Roads Act, print No. 3259. The amendment of the Act aims to continue the assumptions adopted in the Act of 8 December 2017 amending the Public Road Act in which the right to collect electronic tolls and tolls by highway to the main road transport inspector is entrusted with the concentration of all competences relating to the National toll collection system within the government administration body. The national toll collection system plays a very important role in the transport policy of the State. This is a modern, transparent and efficient tool for implementing transport policy and transport policy at the level of individual carriers. [[Introduced by the Platform?]] The primary role of the system is to generate revenue for the National Road Fund, from which investments on national roads are financed, and to ensure that the European Union budget absorbs resources in the current and future financial perspective. As it was considered necessary to ensure adequate exchange of certain data with other public entities during the implementation of the new National Pay Collection System project, e.g. with the National Tax Administration, it is also proposed to amend the rules aimed at carrying out activities related to electronic toll collection systems by the designated entity. The draft provides for a provision authorising the Minister responsible for. transport for the issue of a regulation in which it designates an entity for the benefit of the above mentioned. services and the entity will have exclusive right to perform the services indicated in the draft law and detailed in the regulation issued under it. The following provisions also govern the provisions of the service contract concluded between the Central Road Transport Inspectorate and the designated entity. What is important, according to the earlier provisions of the Law of 8 December 2017, the continued operation of the system remains the task of the Chief Inspector of Road Transport and therefore the Act does not have any additional consequences for the state administration collecting different data, which in fact makes it easier to exchange them. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support changes aimed at, inter alia, to ensure the development and efficiency of the National Payment Collection System, to optimise the cost of the system in the long term, to improve standardisation and ICT solutions, to ensure the proper protection of data collected within the system and to improve the transmission of data to the relevant services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u331	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I submit my position on the draft law amending the Public Road Act, print No. 3259. High Seym! Unfortunately, the bill submitted is another installment of the incompetence and incompetence of the infrastructure department in the selection of the next operator of the National Toll Collection System since 2 November 2018, i.e. since the expiry of the contract concluded in 2010 with Kapsch for the design, delivery and operation of the toll collection system. [[Applause]] The first installment took place, and this was just mentioned by Mr Puda, in December 2017. By means of the power to amend the Public Roads Act, the toll collection was transferred to the Main Road Transport Inspectorate. The opposition's arguments that this idea is too risky for the continuity of the toll collection system have failed. Another initiative on amending the Public Road Act, which is the subject of today's debate, is another attempt to get out of this unclear, complicated situation. The proposal to manually appoint an operator appointed without a public offering procedure cannot obtain our support. Such solutions have nothing to do with rational and transparent management of public funds. The activities of the infrastructure department appear to fit in with the overall trend of the PiS government, i.e. centralization of the state and appointment of further units to create well-paid jobs, as it was when establishing the National Property Resources and the Polish National Foundation. Minister Adamczyk's arguments regarding the optimization of charges are as reliable as those which over three years ago concerned the optimization of costs on infrastructure contracts. Arguments concerning high costs of operation of the viaTOLL system up to 38% The influences, they turned out to be untrue. At the end of 2017, the revenues amounted to PLN 1.9 billion, and the costs oscillated in the games of 263 million, i.e. 14% , not 38%. Chaos and omissions in the operations of the Ministry result in serious decreases in revenue to the National Road Fund. As early as 2018 another 234 km of express roads and 500 km of other national roads could be included in the toll collection system. It would be possible to generate PLN 250 million for this purpose. Today, at the beginning of 2019 it is possible to extend the system by further kilometres of roads, but the infrastructure resort remains in bureaucratic difficulty. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - The Civic Coalition will vote against the adoption of this harmful, corrupting state of law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will speak. Oh, in writing, yes, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I would like to address Minister Adamczyk, but unfortunately the Minister does not want to defend this project. The Minister was present at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. He was trying to defend something that couldn't be defended. The Minister isn't here right now. I guess he just gave up without a fight. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Meanwhile, it is a very serious project. The project is very serious because it concerns an important area for the interests of the State, which is the collection of tolls for the use of roads. Infrastructure issues are important both from an economic point of view, from the point of view of mobility and from a defensive point of view. Such projects require serious debate. It's a pity the Minister isn't here because we could have a debate with the Minister. It is clear that the Minister is not keen on this debate. [[Applause]] I would like to start by saying that the project has as many as three fundamental drawbacks. Firstly, it strengthens nationalisation and the state monopoly in the case of the management of road toll collection systems. [[Applause]] It is another element of centralization of the state. The consequences are pretty clear. Firstly, financing the issue of toll collection. Of course, more funding will be needed, because state institutions, such is their nature, such things do more expensive than private companies selected in the tender. [[Applause]] Secondly, the financing of this system will become even more non-transparency compared to the current state of affairs, but it will be public funds. What do we have on the project? In the project we have a record that makes the Ministry not have to disclose part of the costs associated with the operation of this system. How are citizens supposed to check whether what was selected in the tender is actually more expensive than what the Ministry says is going to be implemented by state entities? This cannot be verified, and that is why I think this is a record that is supposed to hide this inability and such wastefulness even in terms of public funds. [[Applause]] Citizens will not be able to verify that. Thirdly, the project introduces a gateway that will allow total and permanent surveillance. I have to say, I really don't understand the Minister here. After all, infrastructure issues should be something beyond political divisions, beyond current policies. Meanwhile, the Minister brings a project to the High House, which contains clear and legible records allowing total surveillance in the next area of functioning of Poles. Really, that's crossing a line. The Committee on Infrastructure for this term of office adopts another project, which concerns such total surveillance. [[Applause]] These three fundamental disadvantages, which I was talking about, namely the consolidation of the monopoly, the absolute non-transparency in terms of financing the toll collection system, and the introduction of a gate allowing total and permanent surveillance, make it absolutely impossible for us to support this project. Not much, on behalf of the Modern Club, I am filing a motion to reject this project at second reading. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am fully aware that the discussion can adopt such a formula that the Law and Justice will not listen to this voice of reason and will try to push this project through, so I am making further amendments. Firstly, we will ask for a transparent distribution of public funds, so that citizens receive information on how much you will spend on the ICT system to collect fees. Secondly, we will ask for the deletion of the point enabling total surveillance of Polish citizens. These amendments I make to you a marshal and ask for them to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u335	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik. Are you an MP? [[Yes.]] Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the changes in the toll collection system, can you finally return to a simple analysis of the vignette system and the removal of gates, especially in the context of the planned further expansion of the motorway system? Their construction with goal equipment results in a huge increase in costs, among others. for additional bridge crossings arising at each node for the purpose of concentrating traffic at one toll point. The operating costs of unproductive jobs, security, maintenance and service costs will not even be mentioned. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u337	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u338	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I share the comments that have been made in the debate by my predecessors Mr Suchon, Mr Zmijan. The Minister proposes that the High House adopt a law establishing a law that will allow permanent surveillance of those who will move on Polish public roads. This is clear from both the text of the Act and the justification that was included there. I quote: The amendment to the Public Road Act is intended to add provisions allowing the implementation of activities related to ICT systems used to collect fees by the designated entity. The provision shall authorise the Minister responsible for transport to issue a regulation. This will enable cooperation with other national ICT systems. One major change concerns the availability of these data by other services. So far the toll collection system has been used to build, expand the network, now it is designed to build a surveillance system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, do you have too much money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u339	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question to the Minister, even though the President here assured us that during the committee debate we had all the answers to all the questions. Well, no, to one very important question, I would say: key, I did not get the answer. Then I'll repeat it. Minister, who, after 2 November 2018, when the agreement with Kapsch expired, manages, operates in the area of the national toll collection system based on... And not formally, because we know that formally, with the power to change the Public Road Act, these duties, this task is to take over the Chief Road Transport Inspector. Who formally and on what basis and how long has the agreement been concluded? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will be consistently asking, Minister, all the cases I asked about during the committee meeting. The Minister, with all due respect, was in session and provided information, but in a very eloquent way, you left out the Minister's answers to specific questions. Minister, I would like to ask how much this will cost Polish taxpayers. I ask because the state has de facto nationalised this important area of functioning of the Polish state, which was, I would say, quite well managed by the company chosen in the tender. Now you are nationalising, introducing and strengthening a state monopoly, so it can be said that it will be more expensive on the basis of the experience of other countries and other areas. The question is, Minister, if it's more expensive. Do you even know how much this is gonna cost? Secondly, you boasted that the number of Polish companies will increase in this nationalization. I do not know how the number of companies may increase in nationalisation, but if this is to happen, the question arises, as long as the number of Polish companies that support the system has increased today. And thirdly, is it true that the system is still de facto supported by Kapsch and only arrived [[♪ The bell ♪]] intermediaries between who pays and who receives money for real work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u343	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to apologize for being late. Unfortunately, 1.5 hours ago, I could not predict that the Sejm's work would be accelerated without a small 2 hours, so the voices that appeared here, that it was a reiterade, giving up before time, are a kind of abuse, but I understand that all of this falls within the area of the parliamentary debate. Mr President, I have no habit of giving up, I have never re-entered. And I remember that when I was a Member, it was easier for me to adapt to the speedy change in the work of the Sejm, the accelerated implementation of the agenda. On the other hand, I was too far from the Sejm today to be able to reach the hour on which the proceedings began at the point which concerns this draft law. So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, please accept my words: sorry I'm late. We continue the debate that began at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, on the draft law that we are discussing. Well, I will consistently uphold not only my own but also the government's. This is not a bill that introduces permanent surveillance. I understand that this is a good slogan for the parliamentary debate and the accusations of the rulers that they have no pleasure in anything but merely following the opposition or all citizens. I understand that you have a problem with this, or you live in this belief, but it's not really. This is the reality that you've built around you and you're translating it into projects that relate to substantive issues that are important to you, little of that, projects that contain solutions that were used during the time when you were fulfilling your responsibilities... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, Minister, it's true. ...when this country fulfilled your responsibilities in carrying out transport tasks, collecting charges. This country has also established these basic standards of access for services to the information that has been generated in connection with the collection of charges. Nothing else in this proposal submitted to the High House is changing. Nobody has the right to say that this is a project that contains elements that allow us to monitor Poles from start to finish. It is absolutely an unauthorised statement, but I understand that for the purpose of this parliamentary debate you have coined such a theory. There's nothing else for you. I can't help it. The current provisions of the Road Transport Act, Art. 55b, allow the General Inspector of Road Transport to transmit data from the electronic toll collection system to services and other competent authorities. [[Since when do they apply?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I read the written notes for a reason. I am not in the habit of reading directly the texts of speeches, but because you have had doubts at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and you have claimed that I have said what I have not said, you have emputated me with statements which I have not said, I am giving you specific records so that there is no doubt. The transfer of data includes the provision of personal data also in electronic mode. [[But since when, Minister?]] The authority which acquires personal data in electronic mode shall not be exempted from compliance with the regulations concerning the processing of personal data, GDPR, and shall be obliged to settle compliance with those regulations. The transmission of data by the main road transport inspector shall be preceded by a request from the competent authorities and public services which conduct infringement proceedings. Data requirements are reported by security, public policy and public finances services. These services process data only in the context of proceedings which, after all, serve citizens. Do you think they're against citizens? [[Yes.]] Do you believe that during the first governments of the Civic Platform, the first minister responsible for transport and later ministers responsible for transport, you have prepared and implemented legislation to enable this data to be used? [[There were no rules.]] The bill generally does not change the rules on access of services to data collected in the electronic toll collection system, it does not change and you will not shout out reality. It doesn't change, you don't scream reality. [[Applause]] Therefore, the transmission of data from the electronic toll collection system is not a surveillance of citizens, but merely cooperation between public authorities and public services and affects the speed of their proceedings. Recently, some 900 requests from the competent authorities and public services have been received by the main road transport inspector. In this respect, the project does not change anything. In this respect, the project does not change anything. [[He's changing, Minister.]] In this respect, the proposal does not change anything, Mr President. Questions were also raised regarding the financial implications for the state budget, which involved the adoption of a draft law amending the Public Roads Act. The amendment currently proposed is orderly and subsequent to that of December 2017 and its adoption will not create any additional burden on the state budget. That is, I think, an absolutely sufficient explanation if there were questions here. Any potential costs which may arise as a result of the proposed legislative amendments have already been envisaged when amending the law in December 2017. [[Voice from the room: How was it?]] In the impact assessment of the regulation, I will remind you, the Law of December 2017, provided for the following expenditure within 10 years from the entry into force of the changes: the costs of operating the system - approx. PLN 2.4 billion, investment costs of construction, development of the system - approx. PLN 2 billion. The average annual expenditure over the first 10 years will be between PLN 400 million and PLN 700 million. One thing is certain: it is definitely not and will not be more expensive. If you're all... [[Why do you want to hide information?]] It's about costs. I answer the question about this, repeated also, who is today the subject, the main operator of the toll collection system. GITD, the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, is a country you know perfectly well. The Institute of Communications - The State Research Institute is the main technical contractor of this system, so that it is clear about... [[How much?]] On 3 November, GITD replaced the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways as a toll collector. It is the main public administration body responsible for the viaTOLL system. As regards the question of toll collection for passenger cars on motorways, this area is not covered by this draft law and I will therefore allow myself to refrain from answering that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u345	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law on the amendment of the Public Road Act. In the implementation of the law, the right to collect electronic tolls and tolls by highway to the main road transport inspector was conferred. Currently, the toll collection system is modern, transparent and well-managed and plays an important role in the transport policy of the State. During the implementation of the project of the new National Payment Collection System, it was noted that certain data should be exchanged with other entities, such as: National Tax Administration. The purpose of this draft law is to add new, relevant provisions that will enable the activities of electronic toll collection systems by the designated entity to be carried out. When thinking about the development of transport in Poland, we need to take into account all modern solutions and improve ICT solutions. In addition, these assumptions also aim to reduce operating costs in the long term. In view of the above argument as the Free and Solidarni Circle, we are in favour of further proceding and, in the long term, the entry into force of the amendments concerning the above law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Public Road Act. The amendment to the Public Road Act aims at adding provisions to enable the implementation of activities related to electronic tolling systems. The draft provides for a provision authorising the Minister responsible for transport to issue a regulation in which he will designate an entity to provide the abovementioned. services. This entity will have the exclusive right to perform the services specified in the draft law and detailed in the regulation issued pursuant to it. Given the unique nature and complexity of parts of services, it is possible that one entity with appropriate technical preparation and experience in the design, construction, development, implementation or maintenance of ICTs will be able to implement them. This entity will have the exclusive right to perform the services specified in the draft law and detailed in the regulation issued pursuant to it. The PSL-UED Club will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u348	Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Bogdan Rzońca. [[It'll be more expensive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Applications have been submitted, so I invite you to attend the committee meeting tomorrow at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m. We will maintain the position that the bill submitted is very good, very necessary and clearly needs to be supported and carried out by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u350	Thank you, sir. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws (Print No. 3236). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mark Niebłużak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you today a project closing the package of 100 changes, something else in the Ministry of Development we called a package of 100 changes for companies. It is a draft amendment to the Commercial Companies Code, often commonly referred to as a project with a simple public limited company. [[Game in the O.R.]] Before I begin to describe the solutions contained in the project... [[Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like you to transfer your calls. Thank you very much.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Before I begin to describe the solutions contained in the project, I would like to emphasise something else first. This project, as it happens, did not have its beginning in the heads of officials, nor in the heads, I don't know, lawyers, law professors, merchants, just a signal or impulse to create it, came out of the start-up environment. This is, of course, a young environment and not so large on the scale of the Polish economy, but it is extremely important both from the perspective of the agenda of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the entire government. In 2016, it was estimated that if we create favourable conditions for the development of start-ups as a country, this sector could generate over PLN 2 billion of added value for the economy by 2023 and create about 50,000. jobs. According to the report "Polish start-ups 2018" more than 78% respondents from the start-up environment who were involved in the drafting of this report indicated that there was a need to adapt capital requirements, requirements for the creation, operation of capital companies to the precisely designed, simplified form of corporate vehicle and the form of a simple public limited liability company. This is extremely important, in my opinion, because it shows that this project is the answer to a very specific need for a very specific group, i.e. It's a start-up environment. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that the Polish Commercial Companies Code was established almost 20 years ago and is largely based on solutions adopted in the old pre-war Allerhand Code of the 1930s. Many of the structures contained there are, still very good, but they are suitable for, say, typical, repetitive business models. He is often very versatile and does not necessarily meet the needs of dynamically developing start-ups. It should be borne in mind that they are companies that are often very fast and easily formed on the basis of some idea, idea, often do not have their own capital, and at the same time it must be remembered that very often they also end up without much success. It is estimated that about 9 out of 10 folds, so to speak, without success, and this is also a very important element, which in some way was tried to take into account in the project presented. Also so-called. The White Paper on Innovation, which has been conducted in our Ministry since 2016, an analysis, consultation with entrepreneurs, representatives of the science world and practices confirmed this diagnosis that start-ups need a new type of corporate vehicle, and the answer to this is a simple public limited company. I would also like to stress that it is not such that this is a specific Polish idea. On the contrary. All over Europe, individual countries are creating new legal solutions for innovative companies. As examples, I can give the Slovak simple public limited company or the French simplified public limited company, which is one of the most popular legal forms in France. Capital requirements are also falling in many European countries, EU countries. This is precisely the form of simplification, which we also envisage in this project. The simple public limited company we propose is based on two basic assumptions. Firstly, simplicity in operation, in principle, in action, or liquidation. We have limited formal requirements to the minimum in each of the areas I mentioned. The second assumption is maximum flexibility. The proposed rules do not restrict freedom where this is not necessary, in particular because of the safety of trading, which is also very much at our heart, as well as the protection of creditors and minority shareholders. Now I'm going to come up with a little more detailed basic, basic solutions. In the case of a simple joint stock company, we do not have formal or financial barriers at the start. The company can be opened in 24 hours with share capital of PLN 1. The capital structure is based on completely new assumptions for Polish law. Permanent share capital will not necessarily be created. Change in capital Nor will it in principle require the amendment of the company's contract or the completion of any formal procedures for the increase or reduction of capital. The company's assets will be easily available, simply adapting it to the current needs that can happen - such is the specificity of start-ups - very rapidly change. At the same time, we have ensured that this is accompanied by a whole set of mechanisms which, more effectively than traditionally understood share capital, safeguard the interests of the company's creditors. The amount of the funds that the company must maintain will not be expressed in the arbitrary amount of share capital but will be adjusted to the amount of the company's liabilities and the requirement to maintain its solvency. In contrast to other equity companies in PSA, the distribution to shareholders, e.g. By way of dividend, it will only be possible if this does not jeopardise the solvency of the company. It is a mechanism that seems more effective in securing the interests of creditors than this traditional share capital. Both the recipient of the amount paid and all members of the bodies will be jointly and severally liable for its reimbursement if the payment violates the company's rules or contract. In addition, as equity, the company will have to maintain a minimum reserve of 5%. the amounts of commitments. PSA will therefore be the only capital company in which the equity capital will be linked to the liquidity requirement and the current size of the liabilities. PSA shares - this is also an extremely important novum in relation to already existing SA and limited liability companies - will be available for work or services. This is particularly important for these young, innovative companies, where, as I have already said, very often this capital, which is owned by young or beginner shareholders, is primarily the capital of their knowledge, the capital of their ideas, the capital of their work or know-how. This is, as I said, unacceptable in other equity companies. As a result, the founders will be able to maintain their influence on decisions in the company. Investors will be assured that the key idea and human capital in this company will remain. Thanks. Founding shares may also be spared from losing their voting power in the company at the time of the search for capital. This is also extremely important, because I would like to point out that today such a problem that we see on the market start-ups or challenges - maybe this is a better term - it is that capital, venture capital funds are often not Polish and as a requirement they make de facto takeover... By increasing the capital, they take control of the company, sometimes force the registration of the company outside Poland, and that is what we want to avoid, this is what we want to avoid. We want to keep these start-ups in our country and this, among others. is intended to serve a new corporate form. PSA shares will also be dematerialised in a simplified register, which can be maintained e.g. by an investment firm or notary. The register will be able to be kept using blockchain technology, which is consistent with the latest trends and, I think, makes PSA one of the most modern legal forms in Europe. At the same time PSA will have no public company responsibilities and its shares will not be subject to organised trading. Thus, we retain the flexibility associated with the fact that we do not operate on the basis of the rules on which public companies operate, public companies, while ensuring transparency and security of trading in shares, while minimizing costs. The maximum simplification also includes requirements for PSA bodies. And here is also a very interesting novel, i.e. Of course, it is possible to appoint a board of directors and even a board of directors. That's what it looks like in other companies. However, we also allow the creation of a board of directors in PSA instead of a board of directors, which is in line with the Anglo-Saxon model and, it seems, can encourage investment in Anglo-Saxon capital from the United States or England. The idea is that such a company registered in Poland should operate in a more well-known way to Anglo-Saxon capital, in a way that is more understandable and transparent there, which may make investment decisions easier, which is what we want, because in fact it is also about facilitating start-ups of development by raising capital. The PSA will be able to use electronic communications to a very wide extent to adopt resolutions and hold meetings, which should make decision-making processes much easier and faster. The project also envisages accelerating the liquidation of the company. As I said before, the fact that 9 out of 10 start-ups do not end in success, of course can be a little less optimistic, but the starting-up philosophy is a little bit about not to worry and move on, it is about getting over failure quickly. The necessary element here is also the possibility of a rapid liquidation of the company, and this is ensured by PSA: shortening winding-up dates compared to the liquidation of other capital companies and simplifying the termination of the business. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the above and, above all, the desire to improve the regulatory environment for the functioning of Polish companies, especially young and innovative ones, we kindly ask you to adopt a law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u352	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, print No. 3236. The project is part of a package prepared by the Ministry of Development of 100 changes for companies, facilitations for entrepreneurs. The project proposes to regulate a new type of capital company, so-called. a simple public limited liability company. PSA is in this proposal a modern form of a non-public capital company dealing with innovative projects. It is intended to combine the corporate nature of the company as a legal person and its fundamental manifestation of the exclusion of the shareholders' personal responsibility for its obligations, with the considerable freedom to shape the company's relations in terms of both the mutual relationship between the shareholders and the company's management system and the supervision of this process. On the one hand, this new structure of the company is distinguished by the acceptance of new categories of contributions to cover the covered membership rights and on the other hand by the modern mechanism to protect the company's creditors from the construction of share capital in favour of flexible distribution restrictions for shareholders taking into account both the size of the company's aggregate debt and the degree of its solvency. The need to introduce a new type of capital company into the Polish legal order results from the analysis of the legal environment and functioning in Poland so-called. Start-ups. These are projects that have the potential for very rapid growth through technological advantage or market niche, but for which the legal forms of business activity are anachronistic. The project proposes to create a new form of commercial company instead of attempting to reform the construction of existing capital companies due to legal constraints, the extent of the necessary changes and the safety of trading. The solutions envisaged in the project are intended to provide an alternative to existing legal structures. The designer decided to do so for several reasons. Firstly, it is not possible to significantly modify the provisions on public limited liability companies, since the provisions on that company are harmonised by the relevant provisions of Union law. The introduction of the admissibility of contributions in the form of work or services or even merely giving up the formalities relating to the taking-up of shares in exchange for returns would require amendments to the relevant provisions of this law at European Union level. Therefore, changes aimed at significantly simplifying the construction of companies, in particular the reduction of formal and financial requirements for the founders of commercial companies, are being implemented in the countries of the European Union by introducing new types of companies. Secondly, the provisions on a limited liability company, which largely continue to resolve the 1934 Commercial Code, would require so far-reaching changes that it would indeed be modified in nature, and this is not the purpose of this project. For construction elements of the company z o.o. belong, inter alia, to:: share capital, i.e. fixed initial capital, the principle that equity rights are linked to share capital, the principle that shares cannot be incorporated in a document or in an electronic record. The property structure of the company o.o. - based on share capital and shares forming part of it, is not sufficiently functional for innovation and new technologies projects. In particular, the model of the company O.O. does not allow the introduction of non-nominative actions, which in turn enable contributions to be made in the form of work. The reform of a limited liability company leading to the separation of equity rights from share capital as the core capital of the limited liability company could raise doubts as it would significantly alter the nature of the limited liability company. This would in fact lead to the creation of a new type of company in place of a limited liability company. In this situation, these government proposals are moving towards the creation of a new type of company. We believe that these proposals are going [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the right direction. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I request that the draft be referred to the committee responsible for further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present a position on the draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. The proposed legal act is an element of a package prepared by the Ministry of Development for companies - a package of facilitations for entrepreneurs. As part of the project, it is proposed to introduce a new type of company into the Polish law system, capital this time: a simple public limited company. The provisions dedicated to the newly created type of company are 133 regulations and additionally changes 31 provisions of the Commercial Companies Code due to the proposal of a new organisational form of the company. These two facts lead to at least two reflections. Firstly, the proposals to amend the Commercial Companies Code come from the Ministry of Development, which is the author of many proposals, for which many really put the question mark on them, and not the Ministry of Justice, which in the subject matter of the law should be the leading centre for reforming the law, especially at the level regulated by the Commercial Companies Code. Secondly, the name of the newly introduced formula of a simple public limited liability company misleads both interested in its use and other trading participants. This company is certainly not simple, since it includes 133 regulations, often with an extensive structure, and in addition 31 new regulations, adapting the existing rules to the newly proposed form of business. Nor is the reference in the name of the newly proposed company to the public limited liability company justified, as the solutions envisaged in the project differ far from the Polish form of public limited liability company, which is established in the commercial company system and in the practice of trading. Projectors assume that the procedated type of company will apply to start-up projects based on modern technologies, that it will allow to combine innovative solutions at the early stages of development, innovation and entrepreneurship. This is an attempt at one attack, one move, one legislative change in the transition from the first industrial revolution to the era of industry 4.0. The designer forgets, however, that it is not enough to report that man is to be joyful or happy, and that he will indeed be, because life is going to take its course anyway. Similarly, it is not enough to call the new company a simple one, because it does not necessarily mean that the design will be simple. The nature of the proposed simple joint stock company appears to be foggy. A simple joint stock company... Here I will refer to the literature and evaluation of this company by the representatives of commercial law, first to Prof. Romanowski - the head of the legislative commission dissolved in December 2015, because today it is unnecessary to anyone - who called a simple public limited company a bigose made of the company from o.o. and a joint stock company with expired cream. A simple public limited company is not a type of company, but a mixture of everything that could be mixed up. And not only does a chemist know that not everything can be mixed up. It is a more complex construction than the company's o.o. And a joint stock company or a joint-stock company. A simple public limited company was supposed to be simple, and it's complicated and large. That's what Professor Andrzej Kidyba says about a simple company, adding that it is a true intellectual horror. Assuming the designers, the public limited company was supposed to be a start-up cure. Thanks to this new formula Poles were supposed to become richer as well. However, there is no need to be a prophet, this organizational form of happiness will not bring people. Legitimate pride apparently sends the projectors the fact that it will not be easier and cheaper or less rigorous. It'll be harder and more expensive. And here I will also refer to the statement presented by Prof. Michał Romanowski, with whom, in the assessment of a simple public limited company, it is unlikely to agree. In order to achieve the objective set out in the Act, to facilitate and propose new projects, new activities, it was possible to choose another path, including the use and adaptation of existing legal forms. It must be agreed that progress is also progressing and prompts the start of new forms of business activity and hence, without condemning this project, rather as an attempt to prepare some form of business activity, we submit a proposal for the proposed law to amend the law of k.s.h. for further work [[♪ The bell ♪]] legislative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Oh, no, it's unspoken, I'm sorry, it's a written statement. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. To be honest, as I quickly examined all the proposals made by the Ministry, which concerned the facilitation of entrepreneurs, this law and this proposal seemed to me one of the most interesting. I will not hide that in fact in Polish law, as regards capital companies, there was no formula which would combine certain elements of the public limited liability company and limited liability companies. I am convinced that an attempt to transform one of the companies to make it a little easier to set it up, especially for those who are just starting their business adventure, would be difficult and choosing a way to create a new formula, seems quite logical. The question is who will verify whether this form is good or not. First of all, entrepreneurs who decide to operate on the basis of this law. The question is also how it will be answered by entities who are kind of authorized to cooperate with such a company, i.e. tax offices, institutions, state offices, because it will be new to them, and the question is how quickly they will be prepared to handle this form of activity, because we know from practice that as a novelty officials who have become accustomed to the forms that have been in force so far, treat such new formulas and approach them as a hedgehog. Therefore, I hope that the legislator will also go in the direction of passing on certain instructions and recommendations on the formation of these companies. It's about what accounting is supposed to look like, what some of the activities this company is going to take. One of the most important elements of this new law is that shareholders will not be responsible for the company's obligations. This makes it possible that when the company turns out to be a badly hit undertaking, it will not cause these shareholders to be in financial difficulties and will have to declare their consumer bankruptcy. Therefore, this solution is good. The reduction in share capital, the statement that the minimum share capital is 1 PLN, is fine, because in fact some young people who are going to spend 5 000 at the start. as share capital to a limited liability company, it may seem quite large. The fact that this company will not be able to offer its shares in public trading is very good because it will actually be more or less different from the public limited company, which can be listed on the stock exchange and can offer its shares in the public offering. It is also good that it is possible for the founders to construct the company's contracts and so privileged their founding shares so that when they raise the capital that exceeds what they have contributed, they can maintain control over this company. It seems like a pretty good solution because we know what it looks like. Unfortunately, sometimes someone who invests more money than shareholders takes over the company for a little bit. So this is a good solution. And now the question is whether these companies will actually be able to carry out the task of raising capital by crowdfunding. If such a company works well and there will be adequate safeguards, and above all if it has something to offer possible, potential shareholders or those who want to invest, it is very good, because this formula has become quite fashionable lately. This may be one of the forms of raising capital for interesting projects, but not just from the IT sector. It seems that this company can also function in other sectors, not only in modern technologies. The Modern Club will be in favour of further proceedings over this bill. I hope it's on the committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will develop the most optimal form of operation of this company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'd be happy to clap for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u358	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski will speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u359	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, is it true that the marketing of a simple public limited liability company and its legal structure are inconsistent with the basic principles of the current commercial company system because the shareholders of that company are not liable for the company's obligations or obliged to cover the minimum share capital before the establishment of that entity? You told the Minister that the intention of the legislator was that this simple public limited company should be designed especially for innovative companies, so-called. Start-ups. The Minister also said that these projects are at high risk of nine failing out of ten projects. The Minister therefore recognises the risk of satisfying creditors of a simple public limited liability company in the case of companies active in the field of innovation that do not achieve market success. What scale could that be? Is it true that, in the light of the provisions of the bill, a new type of capital company will also be able to be used in another activity, not just that based on innovation? Does the Ministry not see the risk of using this form of activity as an instrument to avoid personal liability for liabilities? Doesn't the Ministry also see a lack of obligation to establish a supervisory board in a simple public limited liability company? Isn't that a weakening of the internal control mechanism? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u360	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question: Does the projector provide for additional protection of the interest of potential creditors, e.g. by strictly registering transactions between a company and entities associated with its shareholders and by obliging such entities to participate in the liability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u362	Thank you. Mrs Anna April has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The proposed amendments to the Commercial Companies Code are intended to contribute to the development of start-ups and marketing safety. I have questions: Do you think that the possibility of setting up a simple public limited company will help to stop the drain of Polish innovative thought? Does this form work in other European Union countries? If so, what is it? Has such a phenomenon been observed so far, that Polish companies, Polish start-ups registered and used such solutions in other countries of the European Union, precisely those in which such solutions function? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, without prejudice to the project, this desire is a certain curse on politicians who bring economic projects. We have dealt with such examples many times in all terms. The Constitution, which is to facilitate, counts 800 pages. Before anyone reads this, this business will run away. Therefore, I would like to ask about the specific issue of reporting, about administrative issues: How are formalities in a simple public limited company in relation to other organisational forms, especially public limited liability companies and public limited liability companies? What is the scale of reducing these formalities, these bureaucratic responsibilities? Will it really be so that, if this company is established, these obligations will be significantly lower than today in other organisational forms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u366	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr.Marek Niebłużak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u367	I tried to write down questions. I hope I don't miss anything, but please let me not answer with names when it comes to people who have asked specific questions, but... [[Issues.]] ...the issues, the more that some of them overlap or are closely intertwined. Okay, I'm going to start by asking you about this brain drain that a little bit referred to what I've already had the chance to talk about. Yes, I know this from the first hand, it happens now that the capital which invests in start-ups in Poland as one of the conditions for investing puts the registration of this company outside Poland, most often in the country of origin of the capital. This is, of course, not a positive phenomenon for us, because this means that we are losing this company as a country, as Poland, as regards both its development potential and the future source of taxation. We very much hope that such an innovative form, a new form of conducting business will contribute to the fact that these companies, these start-ups will stay here with us, that it will be so attractive that this capital will also agree to register in Poland. We hope that this will help to reduce the phenomenon that can actually be called drainage. As far as this is concerned, this is the question of how much we're going to build a new corporate structure with some kind of action, let's say, soft. We plan training for judges and this S24 system, the system of fast registration of the company over the Internet, is also being adapted. So that we also tried not to forget this aspect, I agree that it is very important. As for, let's call it yes, the position of the world of trade law science for the project, it is such a saying that where there are two lawyers, there are three opinions. And you can also refer this phrase to our project. In fact, he also has - and earlier from the speaker came the names - of his opponents in the world of science. They're very respectable people. However, in order to give a full picture of the situation, it seems to me that it is also necessary to mention at least the equally respectable names of those who support this project. It is worth mentioning that you have positively assessed the draft amendment by Prof. Sołtysiński, about which I can say that he is certainly one of the authors, and perhaps even the main author of the current Commercial Companies Code. We, the Ministry, are also assisted by quite a number of teams, perhaps composed of seven professors, led by Professor Opalski. So that it seems to me that this picture is worth completing at all, knowing that there is a really wide group of professors that helped to develop the project. I am also aware of the doubts, because it is not the first time I have heard this question: What is a simple public limited company, since there are 133 regulations here? The same kind of philosophy was also said here: How can it be a simplification if it is so long? I know that each of us mentally misses times like this. ancient Rome, where there was the law of ten or twelve stone tablets as a whole of the law written. Unfortunately, since then, reality has become so complicated that we won't get back to it. All important acts are long, sometimes even very long. As far as the length of regulation on a simple public limited liability company is concerned, I would like to draw attention to such an element. At some point in writing the project had to be decided, I would say, legislative, technical, how do we write: Are we writing a complete regulation or are we making references to other regulations? And, for example, French regulation - earlier I referred to it because there is such a simple company there - is much shorter, but it is based on references. So there are fewer articles in there, but that's because it also refers to the proper application of the provisions concerning this main public limited company, say, the basic company or the ordinary French public limited company. We've adopted a different concept. We have found that references will in fact make it difficult to read this regulation. And this simplicity is not that these rules are simple to understand, because they are not simple to understand. This is the Commercial Companies Code, it's not simple matter. Nevertheless, it is about simplicity of application. And the simplicity of application, I think, has been achieved precisely because of the far-reaching flexibility. The point is that shareholders who establish such a company will have a very broad spectrum of recognition as to how this company will operate. And that's the simplicity of this solution. There was also a voice that this company wouldn't bring happiness. But let me save it for last, because this is, I think, this thing, this sweet thing that's worth saving for last. This is, I think, very serious and I already know the accusation from professors criticizing the project that it is inconsistent with the basic principles of the current Commercial Companies Code. I'd say that's a slightly twisted argument, because every new thing is different from what we've had so far. If we are different, new things are treated as inconsistencies, then yes, to some extent. It's inconsistent because it's new. On the other hand, when it comes to the fact that this is contradictory or incompatible with the Commercial Companies Code, absolutely not. It's just going to be a new form, a little bit different from the O.R. company, different from the public limited companies, which is provided in the code mainly for start-ups, new start-ups, innovative companies, not so much based on traditionally understood capital, or money, or some kind of fetches, but on some ideas, some innovative ways of doing something, some inventions. A very serious question, perhaps the most serious of those who have died here at all, is whether we have mechanisms to safeguard the interests of the creditor. This also applies to the question of whether we have considered the risks or whether we have tried to take them into account. I'm going to start by saying that I'm deeply convinced that abuse happens regardless of the form in which companies operate. [[Exactly.]] Whether the Amber Gold scandal, or, I don't know, now the GetBack scandals, they... The legal form in which the company operates is not the key to these issues at all. I don't think thinking about it that way is a good direction. Moreover, already today, everyone who is on average familiar with the Commercial Companies Code is able to limit the liability of their client very much. If this one wishes, he'll make him a partnership with the O.O., a limited partnership. Many companies operate in such a form and I think that is just the reality of commercial law today. So I think this is the first point to start thinking about it at all. On the other hand, we have done a great deal to ensure that a simple public limited company protects the interests of creditors and secures their satisfaction. Let's start with that again. Today in the Commercial Companies Code required share capital for the company z o.o. There's 5,000. zł. This is a solution that already works. Tell me if you're really convinced that you're paying $5,000. zł per share capital secures the interests of the creditors of the company z o.o.? That's $5,000. zł. We're talking more serious business. I think the answer's obvious. Nor is it that we in PSA of this share capital, let it be 5,000. PLN or 100,000. zł in the case of a public limited liability company, we do not supplement anything, we do not replace this resignation. We are simply introducing other security mechanisms, and I believe that much more real than share capital. I will repeat what I said when presenting the project: the amount of funds that PSA must maintain will not be expressed in an arbitrary amount of capital. It will be adjusted to the extent of the company's current liabilities and the solvency requirement. That's the mechanism. We are not talking about formalised fixed capital, but about up-to-date capital depending on the level of the company's liabilities. It will also be possible to pay dividends in PSA only if this does not jeopardise the solvency of the company. Both the recipient of the amount paid and all members of the authorities will be liable for its reimbursement jointly and severally for their own assets if such payment violates the company's rules or contract. In addition, the company will have to maintain a minimum reserve of 5% on its share capital. the sum of commitments, I repeat, the current sum of commitments. I firmly believe that these are real mechanisms that safeguard the interests of creditors to a greater extent than share capital of 5 000. zł., which is currently required in the case of the company z o.o. There were also voices that it was, I don't know, I guess that's what I'm saying from memory, but I think so, the pride of the designer, such an excessive ambition. Why introduce a new type when you can try to reform existing ones? As regards the attempts to reform existing forms of the capital company, i.e. the public limited liability company and the O.O. company, the margin for the public limited liability company is very small. This is an area where we have very strong European regulations. We also have the possibility of public broadcasting, becoming a public company. The margin for making the classic public limited liability company more flexible is very, very small, if not none. As far as the companies are concerned, o.. Remember, this is today's most popular form of company. If we started very violently, in fact changing the essence of this form of company, we would carry out - I have the impression that such a term came from this speaker - an operation on a living organism. We'd change the system almost 300,000. companies, while in most cases they are companies with o.o. they are the most universal corporate vehicle. They're used, so to speak, in very different areas, not to say that practically everyone. It seems to me that there is no need to change the basic corporate vehicle, which in Poland is used in practically every industry to adapt to the specifics of start-ups. It would be an operation that would certainly affect hundreds of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs. It seems to me that a much safer and more sensible idea is to build a new type of company and adapt it to the needs of a new, growing industry or sector. It is also said here that it is a form that will not bring happiness to entrepreneurs. Let me put it this way: I'm just a humble lawyer, I have no ambition to bring happiness to the world. The aim of this project is certainly not to bring happiness to all professors of law. On the other hand, we are in constant contact with the start-up industry. We hope that some of its representatives will be able to invite to work in committee and subcommittee. As far as we know, they are very satisfied with this project and support it. For me personally, this is the most important determinant. If the start-up industry is satisfied with this form and will use it, it is a success for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u368	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These solutions are based on existing regulations of our neighbour Slovakia. According to statistics, 123 simple share companies have been registered in Slovakia for 2 years. In comparison, 406 public limited liability companies were registered during the same period, which means that one in five public limited liability companies is a simple public limited liability company. For this reason, please answer: Does the Ministry have preliminary estimates of what percentage of the companies currently set up could include new simple equity companies? In addition, PSA will also be able to make binding decisions via video conferencing or e-mail. Please answer: How does this law ensure the protection of decisions taken in such a form and adverse actions imposed on other shareholders?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats to present our position on the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act and some other laws, print no. 3236. The proposed law aims at strengthening the development of start-ups in Poland, increasing their competitiveness and stopping Polish ideas from exporting abroad. The project introduces a new entity - a simple public limited company into the Polish legal order. It is intended to be a modern non-public company adapted to the modern economy. PSA will combine the limited liability of shareholders for the company's obligations with full flexibility in terms of both shaping the relationship between the shareholders and the management system of such a company. It is to be deprived of excessive formalities relating to its establishment and, on the other hand, to have a modern mechanism for the protection of the company's creditors. Under the new rules PSA will not have to have a supervisory board. High Izbo! It should be acknowledged that none of the currently available types of capital companies is therefore fully suited to the needs of at least some of the modern, innovative projects. Given the fact that many companies operate in a situation of high uncertainty requiring rapid response to changes in the business environment, there is a need for regulation to ensure appropriate flexibility and freedom of action, e.g. allowing for easier release of measures which in the circumstances are not necessary for the company to achieve its objectives and to regulate its obligations, to issue shares in return for work or services or to make the organisational structure more flexible. PSA will also be able to make binding decisions via video conferencing or e-mail. A new type of company will also be able to issue shares without nominal value. The draft amendment of the law assumes a number of rights that are intended to secure creditors and shareholders at the stage of the liquidation of the company. The distribution of the assets is intended to cover all creditors known to the company and not only those who have made their claims in winding-up proceedings. A provision has also been introduced to limit the sale of the assets of the company to its owners or persons associated with them. In turn, in the event of the acquisition of the company's assets by the shareholder acquiring the decision, the court will take the decision. The Court of First Instance will also allow the acquisition of the company's assets by the acquiring shareholder at the company's request if it is likely that this will not lead to the damage to creditors or shareholders of the company. High Izbo! Human capital - innovative technological solutions at the early stages of development, innovation and entrepreneurship - is becoming increasingly important in today's economic trade. These are the characteristics that are the most important drivers of economic growth. At the same time, these characteristics of entrepreneurs are extremely difficult to accurately value, especially at the early stages of business development. According to this assumption within the framework PSA was rightly allowed to contribute in the form of work or services. Very similar solutions to those proposed in the project have been in operation in several European countries for years. For example, in Germany there is a sub-type of a limited liability company with a minimum share capital of EUR 1. It is similar in the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Finland. Without a doubt, the proposed solution will contribute to the development of start-ups which are an increasingly important part of the economy in our country. The current legal framework did not fully correspond to such companies, often hindering their development. Currently the most popular form chosen by start-ups owners is the company z o.o. The features of this form make it difficult to achieve the new goals and challenges faced by young, innovative companies in the age of increasing the importance of human capital.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u371	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No. 3236 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 11 hours 20 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws (print No 3251). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the effect of many months' work at the Ministry of Justice on the reform of criminal proceedings. The aim of the project is to improve criminal proceedings, speed up this procedure, abandon unnecessary procedural formalism, make it easier for the parties involved to proceed, prevent procedural obstruction of the parties, protect the public interest more widely in the proceedings and eliminate gross errors, errors which today lead to the fact that proceedings last for years. What are the cases? I will start with a case study, differently than usual, because by the example of this disease that digests our criminal justice system, it is best to see the meaning of our changes, the purpose of these changes and the pressing need for them to be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! Trial obstruction. In court, I will not give many different examples, I will limit myself to three, in Nowy Sącz for the 31 dates of the designated trials 21 did not take place, in Chełma for 41 dates of the trial 35 did not take place, in Mielec for 99 hearings 48 did not take place. Specific cases show that we are very often dealing with deliberate obstruction by the defendants, their defenders, who have specialized in skilfully dragging proceedings. In one of the courts, the case came into effect in November 2008, more than 260 court dates were set, most of which were not held due to the unwarranted absence of the defendant. In another court, in a simple case concerning the act of Article. 233, these are false statements, the defendant immediately before the trial date - the case has been pending since 2011 - the day before in the afternoon or even after the start of the hearing by fax, by e-mail sends another release from the medical examiner, often the same medical examiner, stating the inability to participate in the proceedings. It's still going on. The defendant uses the same obstruction tactics all the time. In another case, the defendants have repeatedly submitted certificates from the medical examiners, they are completely capable of taking part in the trial, but this only turns out to be how the court will summon the forensic experts and examine the possibility of taking part in the hearing. Finally, the last case, because such cases best show this problem, where the trial against more than 20 defendants was skillfully blocked by the obstructive actions of those accused. The certificates were based on false tissue samples from another person, in fact it was female DNA, not male DNA. The accused simulated cancer, in fact he was completely healthy, able to participate in the proceedings. The trial's been delayed for almost two years. How do we deal with this? We are introducing the possibility of proceeding in the absence of the defendant, the justified absence of the defendant. Complementing the evidence will guarantee every sick defendant and at the same time encourage him to recover, so that we will witness miraculous healings, I am firmly convinced of that. The proposed change will certainly speed up the process and finally close the gate to block the process. The second very important change is the introduction of a wider notification by fax, fax and e-mail. Currently, the letter should contain only a postal address in the form of contact with the author. How's it going in practice? In one of the cases in the district court, 120 people had to be notified, waiting for a return receipt - up to 8 weeks. In another case, in the district court, the time needed to deliver shipments is up to 2 months. 2 months of break, where nothing happens, is stagnation between the next trial dates, because we are all waiting for a return confirmation of receipt. In the 21st century, I will remind you where we all contact with fax, e-mail and modern methods of communication. In another district court, the average waiting time for a return receipt for more than 200 witnesses is 4 weeks. In the district court in Tychy a return receipt for 28 people was obtained in 10 weeks. So that this is another very important change, making it easier for the participants of the proceedings and adapting the criminal process to modern methods of communication. The third very important change is the withdrawal from the announcement of judgments and justifications, where no one is present at the hearing or at the hearing. At present, any ruling or order given, whether at the hearing or at the sitting, shall be delivered orally, of course, at a public hearing. The proposed amendment provides for the possibility to withdraw from this rigid regulation where no one is placed on the announcement. It will then be possible to declare the judgment delivered as announced and to indicate the reason for the withdrawal from the notice in the minutes. Examples of cases, please. In the first half of 2018, such a situation took place in 24 cases in one of the courts. The total time of reading documents was over 8 hours, the number of pages of judgments - 445. In Ciechanów a sentence of 117 pages was announced 13 hours and 55 minutes in an empty room. The fourth amendment is the possibility for another member of the formation to read the documents. Currently, the documents, the protocols to be read, shall be read by the chairman of the formation of the court. This is extremely incriminating and often counterproductive. The proposed amendment is intended to allow for the reading of documents and protocols by another member of the formation of the court or protocol. In one court, 300 cards were read by eight court dates, nothing else was happening, just reading the minutes. In another court of 482 the cards were read by eight court dates, in another court reading took place by 18 court dates. At this point I would like to point out to you this case, namely the case of the accused of participating in an organised criminal group, which had 248 volumes, each of 200 pages each. The judge's reading of the file began in 2009. For a year 51 volumes of files have been read. The court has scheduled another 12 time limits for the trial. During the proceedings, the accused slept and sometimes even snored, as the media pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an absolute mockery of the justice system and we must say to such situations: stop. Another example: documents were only read on 17 days' trial dates. So that another change would be precisely to consider such documents to be disclosed without reading them. After all, everyone knows them, they can get acquainted with them, the trial is open. Meanwhile, we are stuck in a system of almost 19th century, the court reads to an empty room with absolute passiveness of the person concerned, or the accused. Withdrawal from the oral report at the review hearing where only the parties to the proceedings were present. At present, regardless of the appearance of the parties and the public, the appeal court shall present an oral report. Often it is art for art, for what is there? This is very often time-consuming, the report is extensive, and there are results, the course of the proceedings so far, in particular the content of the judgment under appeal, the pleas in appeal, the justification of the pleas in appeal, the conclusions, the direction of the appeal, the scope of the appeal. The Court reads this report, which, of course, everyone can read. We have examples: 15 defendants, 15 appeals, charges on 39 pages, the hearing lasts all day, only a report is read, what is available to everyone in the open file. In another case, three appeals were identified at three court dates. A total of dozens of charges were raised in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! The last change, which I would like to point out - of course there are many more of them, but I have chosen only the most imaginative situations, cases where we have found the gross chronicity of proceedings due to the 19th century rules, it must be said directly - concerns the prohibition of judgment to the detriment. We now have the so-called. the bans of ne peius, formulated in such a way that the defendant against whom the proceedings at first instance were conditionally dismissed may not be convicted at an appeal court. In the proposed amendment, we provide for such a possibility of conviction in a situation where - I want to make it clear - the guilt and the culpability of such a defendant have been recognised by the Court of First Instance. After all, parole is nothing more than recognition of the defendant's guilt and culpability. So why create this kind of fiction, rescind the sentence to rediscover and cause another long-term delay in carrying out further actions? And since it's been many years... Please, we have one of the cases in which the sentence is conditionally remitted due to the inability of conviction. The procedure increased by one year and six months. In another case, the sentence of life imprisonment - an extension of 10 months, which is almost a year, when the sentence was issued as a result. In the following case, which has been pending since 2013, the judgment of the conditionally remitting procedure has been revoked. The case is still going on. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Please support this project. I trust that these solutions will contribute to improving criminal proceedings, speeding up criminal proceedings. They were prepared by prominent judges, and I would like to say this straight away, judges who came to us to the ministry, often judges from common courts, regional courts, district courts, appeals, who still ruled yesterday or in the morning, and in the evening they were in the ministry, who knew their work and needed an efficient tool to bring justice. The proof of this is, for example, what we point out in the OSR, we have received such information that a real acceleration of the procedure, if our changes were already in force, would take place with 50% effectiveness. Today, processes are many times longer by 100% than they'd be after our shifts. In view of the above, I ask the High House to support the project. I think there'll be general agreement here, cross-party, over divisions. We're all served by an efficient, reliable criminal trial. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u373	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws, print No 3251. This is another project aimed at changing the Polish justice system, making it more efficient and friendly to citizens. Therefore, it is important to agree with the objective which, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, led the Council of Ministers in preparing this project. This is to improve criminal proceedings, to eliminate the perceived shortcomings and legislative errors that occur in the procedural law, and to adapt procedural regulations to the challenges of technological development. In particular, it is about abandoning unnecessary procedural formalism, making it easier for participants in proceedings related to participation in it, preventing procedural obstruction and wider safeguarding of the social interest in the proceedings. In Poland, ladies and gentlemen, there is a cross-party agreement that judicial proceedings need to be speeded up. This also applies, to a particular extent, to criminal proceedings. Such simplification has long been advocated by Law and Justice. At the same time, we are close to the position of the Ministry of Justice, according to which this should not be at the expense of the procedural guarantees of the parties, in particular the accused, and in breach of the principle of fair trial. With satisfaction, though with caution, we accept the declaration that the proposed solutions can speed up the proceedings by up to 40-50% the standard time of trial in criminal matters. Even if this respect was different, one way or another it is a huge change in the Polish criminal trial. The proposed changes include, among others, the proposed changes.: restricting the principle of directness at the main hearing, although in such a way as not to have a negative impact on the correctness of the factual findings; not having to mention all documents which will be counted against evidence without reading - here full agreement as to what Minister Warchoł said, was purely formal in nature; it did not make any special sense; countering the possibility of procedural obstruction of the parties and preventing unnecessary repetition of the evidence activities, including the avoidance of revitalizing witnesses to the courts in the absence of the parties; eliminating other formalisms in proceedings which the existence of which itself by itself extends in a natural way the course of proceedings, including through the introduction of uniform forms of interpretation of judgments at first and second instance - here it can be added that it is a global trend to introduce forms in courts which are some kind of departure from the long tradition, but at the same time facilitates everyone's participation in justice, the reading of judgments, judgments or other judicial papers; speeding up the conduct of investigations, particularly in complex cases where many victims are concerned - here. in order not to repeat the same actions, in particular those which no longer have, in real terms, an impact on the conduct in question; to strengthen the position of the victim in criminal proceedings by implementing the principle of equality between the parties, and in particular to equip the victim with instruments allowing him to have a wider impact on the conduct of the proceedings. There is much more change, but since the time spent on speaking is going to end inexorably, I will limit myself to the changes that have already been mentioned, while I will not mention any other good changes to the Code. The proposed amendments require the amendment of four laws: the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Enforcement Criminal Code, the Tax Criminal Code and the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, as well as the adoption of several new implementing regulations. In conclusion, the public is looking forward to speeding up the work of the courts, and the project presented responds to these expectations, so we are assessing it positively. We hope that further legislative work will help to clarify the issues raised by the institutions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who took part in a public consultation. If there are good proposals for amendments, we are ready to consider them because of the objective pursued: we want a better justice system for Poles. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u375	Thank you. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u376	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will admit that when I received this project to present my position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I sat down to read with great interest, because you long announced that it would be interesting changes, very good and revolutionary. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say that the mountain had a mouse. You've been promising great things, and really things have come up, and I don't want to say weak, generally middle class. On the other hand, it is true what we all agree to, that it is necessary to speed up the process, because the Polish judiciary is collapsing. You have led to a gruesome collapse: for 2019 there are more than 3 million cases left in 2018. There's never been so many cases left behind, these are really huge amounts. Several hundred judges are still unattended, which means that the judiciary is really in ruins. On the other hand, you are largely involved in staff changes, because this is the most important thing for you. In criminal matters, please note, you admit this yourself, otherwise rightly, in 2018 as many as 22% of the total cases were pending cases from previous years, i.e. almost 1/4 of the total cases, while in 2015 only 16% were outstanding cases. And this indicator is growing very strongly from year to year, as is the amount of payments due to the length of proceedings. And what do you propose in the framework of all this? Really, we expected that the reform of the criminal procedure would be true, that you would improve the work of the courts, that you would further strengthen the management of the procedure by the judges, that you would finally do something with the Law on Experts. Because the Minister forgot to mention that the length of proceedings is mostly the responsibility of the experts. The long-term expectation of expert opinions contributes to this, and we all know that. It must be said that we proposed an adversarial approach that really speeded up criminal proceedings and gave a clear prescription. You've thrown out this adversariality and you're strengthening the inquisition actually. And today it's not enough that this procedure you want to strengthen the inquisition of the proceedings, which is to strengthen the role of the judge, yet you want to deprive the accused of the defence. And this is a curial thing, because it will not remain in any European court, either at the Court of Justice or at the European Court of Human Rights, which expressly states that the defendant must have the right to know the evidence that is presented against him. It's unacceptable for you to take shortcuts like this, and this is absolutely shortcuts. You have a nice road and instead of going, you run on the lawn, through the fences, just shortcuts. Unfortunately, all this later will end in such a way that Poland will be prosecuted and we will lose cases at the European Court of Human Rights. Taking evidence without the defendant, even though he's not there, is really a way to go. You're establishing, right, the gate is about this supporting evidence, but what happens if such evidence is carried out at the last trial? Then there will be no more gate, then it will fall out, the defendant will no longer have the opportunity to refer to the evidence that was carried out without his presence or without the presence of his defender. You're putting in a probabilitation. We know very well - I am a great supporter of the pretext - that it does not work well in the civil procedure, that the judges do not want to apply it, that it is used very carefully, and that you propose evidence in the basic criminal proceedings, which means that... It must be made clear: the application of the pretext, i.e. the possibility of submitting evidence only at the beginning of the hearing, means that during the proceedings the defendant cannot submit new evidence. This is unfortunately a very clear limitation of the right to defend itself, because the defendant must be able to submit evidence in the course of the trial as well. or even the opportunity to take a stand on these matters. The situation is this: And you, and we want to treat, because our diagnosis is that the judiciary is sick, only that if we compare it to a broken leg, we think we need to put it in plaster, give it time and support treatment, and you are in favour of amputation. You want to cut it off. This way, you'll treat the fracture, too, except the leg's gone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This proposal is unfortunate, and that is why we are applying for the rejection of the project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u377	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15 has the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'll turn to you first. We met with 30 associations probably in 2009 or 2008 with Mr Kochanowski. You received requests for what should be changed in the criminal procedure, you were then one of the directors of the Ombudsman's Office. It's been almost 10 years, Minister, and you still have a terrible diagnosis of what's going on in criminal proceedings. Well, criminal proceedings are a line that starts at the D.A.'s office or at the police office and ends in court. Chronicity begins at the D.A.'s office, among other things. The prosecutors' malice. You give examples, I'll give you an example about me. My conduct: notification in 2000 concerning the director of ING Bank Śląski, 36 signatures, refusal, remission, refusal, remission. It was only in 2007 that I was able to establish a subsidiary indictment. Minister, I have another proposal. You go back to the old case, it's about twice the refusal, the old rules before 2007, when the prosecution supervised it and only after twice the refusal or remission - I would stress: or remission - could be filed with a subsidiary indictment. Well, that's a classic way to hide criminals. Why not simplify this case? It'll be almost a million times more efficient. I told you this 10 years ago: If a citizen makes a complaint and the prosecution refuses to do so, the citizen will have the right to file an indictment within 30 days. If this subsidiary indictment stays in court and the citizen wins, the prosecutor will have to have disciplinary action initiated. Then it's gonna be such a control, then the D.A. won't be dying too fast. And today, we have a situation where when the defendant wants to look at the file, the prosecutor's lecturing him on the basis of an article. 156 point 7 that he can see the file at any time. Of course, he sends him a subpoena the day before the hearing, so the defendant asks him for the file, the policeman says he doesn't have time, he doesn't give him the file, so he's being filed in writing because there's no other way, he has to be sent to the prosecutor... He's complaining. By the time he gets back, the defendant goes in for questioning and refuses to give an explanation because that's his right. Minister, for God's sake, let's take a look at this trial from the beginning, from the police stage, from the prosecution's office, and finally to the court. I do not agree with your diagnosis, with any of you claiming that the trials are chronic because the procedure is wrong. That's right, there are these things, it's about reading in an empty room, and so on, which I fully agree with, but the situation is that, above all, there is no decision-making of judges. Minister, I, being an MEP, have been driving for two years to Sosnowiec -- three times I haven't been to the Seym because of it -- just because a gentleman played videos on YouTube about me murdering my own wife, that I'm a criminal, that I'm an organ dealer. You know exactly who you're talking about. He wrote 30 or 40 notifications, I don't know, maybe 100 already. I'll ask you in writing. I ask myself: Why hasn't the D.A.'s office filed a case so far for a report of a crime that hasn't been committed since they're all dead? The prosecutors make a decision in 100 cases, I get a resolution from another prosecutor's office every day, and your ministers get it, too, because they have issues with them too. I'm asking you, what are these prosecutors doing? What do these judges do that's two years on the case? After all, they have a record of youtube videos where a guy says I killed my own wife who's alive and well who writes on YouTube that I'm gonna hang. I said, what are you doing with it? What's the D.A. doing with it? And you're telling us today... You are proposing a code in which we say this: we will not read the invoice in an empty room, we will call on it and we will lead an evidence frontline, which is what the honourable Member has rightly pointed out here. No. This is for the convenience of judges, and justice is for people. It's people who get out of court who are satisfied, people who believe in justice, not judges, not prosecutors. That's where we start, Minister. Diagnosis is wrong. The project is, for such a volume... In general, I am now speaking to your marshal: Setting time for 5 minutes in this case at first reading is simply a joke of all of us Members, and there are several such projects. So I would ask you to take this into account and, with such extensive projects, set this time for 10 minutes, because otherwise it just doesn't make sense. I can't even discuss it on some basic level. So, Minister, okay, these little things are positive. First of all, judges have to be decision-makers, judges have to answer. The judge in Sosnowiec tells me, Minister, that the basic proof is the tape, the record that she didn't have time to watch it, even though she's running the case for the third time. For the third time from Bielska or Warsaw I go there with a lawyer. I ask myself: Why doesn't she have disciplinary action initiated? Is it because the president of this court is the wife of the national prosecutor? I'm asking for an answer. We will request that this project be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, gave his position in writing. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u380	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Members' Club on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws, print No. 3251. Minister! When the Ministry of Justice comes in, he brings in a bill and he says she's gonna make things better, speed things up, and so on, I'm already scared. So far you've gotten used to bringing the biggest wicks you can meet in the Seym. I don't know if this bill will change that. Perhaps some things should be supported. The main objective of the project is supposedly to improve the criminal process by eliminating rules leading to excessive formalism and speeding up the criminal process. At the same time, the proposal eliminates legislative errors and amends certain existing institutions of the criminal procedure. Modern supports changes that aim to abandon the formalism of the criminal procedure and make it more friendly to the citizen. It deserves to be accepted, among others. the procedure for the appointment of a public defender using e-mail and fax, or the proposed means of disclosure of evidence and protocols. It is difficult only in view of the above assumptions to find a justification for the changes made to the effectiveness of the withdrawal of the application for prosecution. What is the purpose of not objecting to a public prosecutor when the court is an independent independent judicial authority? The prosecutor is under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, the Executive Authority. This indicates that this is another attempt to take even part of the control over the actions of the courts. It also supports the need for law-making with the highest standards, which is linked to the construction of clear and clear rules, as only such rules strengthen citizens' confidence in power and ensure the stability of regulation. The project eliminates numerous legislative errors, which are largely the result of a legislative rush which accompanies the current government. So why don't you create the law in a balanced way, but then fix your mistakes? The question is how many times a year one law can be amended. You're world champions in this. Chronicity of proceedings is the main problem of the Polish judiciary. Action must therefore be taken to improve justice. However, speeding up proceedings must not lead to a breach of fundamental procedural guarantees or international standards. Otherwise, it will be difficult to consider the criminal process to be fair and fair. It is therefore astonishing to see the evidence carried out without the defendant's or his defender's involvement, even if they duly justify their non-objection. This is a cardinal violation of basic procedural guarantees, such as the defendant's participation in the proceedings. The defendant's presence in the course of the trial shall form the basis for his right of defence. Then it has the opportunity to ask questions, to control the way of the record, to take a stand, etc. In fact, the lack of the possibility of exercising these powers makes the right of defence a fiction. It is also worrying that the possibility of bringing the proceedings into effect would justify a waiver of the victim's hearing. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2012 requires Member States to ensure that victims of crime can be heard during criminal proceedings and provide evidence. The adoption of the amendment to the proposed wording could expose the Republic of Poland to a legitimate plea of infringement of European law. However, this is not the only case where the amendment underestimates the importance of non-national standards. How else can we define changes to these rules? The draft provides that if an appeal is brought against the defendant, it will be possible to convict the defendant by the court of appeal if the proceedings have been suspended conditionally in the first instance. This means that the Court of Appeal will for the first time order a penalty and that the decision in this regard will not be subject to judicial review. Is that how the law works? Therefore, the question arises as to whether speeding up the recognition of judicial cases is indeed to be linked to such significant infringements. Or is the designer deliberately going to make the defendant's situation worse, hiding himself from the need to improve the trial? The Modern Club will request that this project be rejected at first reading. I will say that today we have an example of how you are improving the justice system by listening to the statistics on the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u381	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll have enough retail questions. One of the amended rules concerns a case where the prosecutor refuses to file an indictment twice. Then you can file an indictment in court. The question is, are you able to tell what the scale of this type of case is? The intention of my question is that if this scale is limited, perhaps the solution you are proposing is sufficient. On the other hand, if it is large, perhaps it is still necessary to consider using a solution that will simply speed things up. Second line. You predict in the new rules that a break in the hearing may take 42 days. If I'm not mistaken, that's more than what the current rules provide for. As far as I'm concerned, the current rules provide for a 35-day break. What makes you think that if the essence is to speed up criminal proceedings? And finally, the third point. In the light of the new proposals, the President may waive the summons to the hearing of witnesses, inter alia. where, according to the judge, the circumstances to which this hearing might be concerned are not sufficiently relevant. If I understand it, it's subject to the judge's discretion. What if he's wrong? If, in colloquially speaking, the testimony may seem unattractive at first glance, and then it turns out that it did matter? Of course, this will come under different circumstances. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the question is, is this solution sufficiently thought out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u384	Minister! I have this question: Do you foresee recording of criminal cases in the course of further amendments, but starting with preliminary proceedings? That's the extension of the article. 147. And the other thing. Is there any point in introducing this amendment at the moment, because it is, so to speak, residual, since today the media say that there will be a change again, because we will introduce judges of peace, and that there will be a change in the number of levels of the judiciary - to two levels of the three levels. So this is going to be another rather large third amendment. Would you mind... Oh, and one more thing I'd like to ask. I ask that you give me in writing how many cases in 2018 were ordered to refuse to initiate, including a complaint. So how much time did the judges and prosecutors waste on this retreating arrangement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. In fact, when you listen to the Minister, you can say colloquially that the hair on your head is running, as far as time is concerned, about this chronicity. And I would therefore like the Minister to answer how this chronicity in our justice system is combined, so to speak, with deadlines and procedures in other countries of the European Union. I miss showing the background, so to speak. Because, as far as I know, for the judiciary, we spend quite large amounts on the justice system, quite a large percentage of our gross domestic product. On the other hand, we seem to be at the forefront of the European Union on the issue of chronicity today. And I would like the Minister to show the statistics, if any, to show the scale of the problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u387	Please, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u388	Thank you very much. Minister! I would like to ask you about additional or complementary procedures to carry out proof of what you are proposing. Why should it be possible to bring it only at the first hearing after carrying out this proof? What if the defense attorney or the defendant himself doesn't find out and find out at a later trial? Then they can't ask for that evidence again. This is ridiculous. That's what's against economics. I'm afraid you guys are really gonna cut back on what you're supposed to do, that you're just gonna extend it. The judges will then depart from this and carry out the same evidence twice. Because first it turns out they're gonna move in without the defendant, then the defendant is gonna sue and they're gonna have to do it again. See what you're gonna do: there's probably a lot of evidence that's gonna have to be done again. What about when a witness really comes from afar? Or a witness gets sick or even dies because such situations happen. And then it turns out that the defendant does not have the opportunity to refer to significant evidence, which is clearly contrary to the principle of directness. After all, the defendant must have the opportunity to question the witness who accuses him. And that's the key thing. How do I conduct a witness hearing without the defendant? And this procedure the state will really make more mess than support. And it doesn't make much sense, so seriously think about it. The technical things you're talking about, of course, make sense, only there are far fewer, and in the criminal trial, please remember, you really need to be very careful, because it's really better not to convict two of them than one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To put an innocent in jail, which we all clearly know after Thomas Chief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u389	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer the questions one at a time. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba asked about the refusal to initiate proceedings and the scale of such cases, and Mr Jachnik also formulated such a question, so these answers will be provided by the National Public Prosecutor's Office, because we do not have such data for obvious reasons. We are not the National Public Prosecutor's Office, we are the Ministry of Justice, so when it comes to refusal or termination of proceedings, the scale of this in terms of statistics will be communicated to you in writing. The next question concerned the time limit for the hearing, from 45 to 35 days. It's about carrying out often very important actions from the management point of view of the hearing... [[The other way around. Thirty-five to forty...]] Forty-five, yeah. If we're dealing with... Today, when it comes to certification, we are making it easier to serve, as I have said a lot earlier, and this term will be reduced relatively significantly. Those 10 days during the interrogation were signalled by judges who often need to carry out tasks connected with expert expertise - I will go right to the experts, sir - or other activities in the management of the hearing. Experts - a week ago there was a conference at the Justice Institute on experts. There is a draft law on experts, which has been adopted positively by the environment. We're working on it right now, there's a consultation going on, everyone can speak up, speak up. We've had a lot of study visits. It is mainly about changes such as certification of experts, issues such as a change in the appointment of an expert, due supervision of the role of expert, so that there is no such situation as that often dead souls appear on the lists of the governors of the district courts, no one controls it, no one knows why these experts, by whom sentences are often overturned or there are wrong convictions or unjust acquittals, still remain in office and other experts remain unemployed. The system is opaque, non-transparent and, of course, we see it. If you had been to the Justice Institute a week ago, you would certainly have met with a lot of praise at our address... [[I wasn't invited.]] ...for the first time we've done this. You've had an opportunity for eight years and even half of the recipe for experts, we haven't seen anything. So now, Mr President, after three years, there is a profound change in criminal proceedings, a profound change in the case of experts... [[They didn't call it rough.]] ...and therefore I would also encourage you to examine this second law, the draft law on experts. I'm going back to the questions. Mrs Anna April asked the question of what it is like in other countries of the European Union. Of course, there are different systems, the closest ones. to us, where the official, official and inquisition model dominates, the German model, or Austria, Denmark, mostly Scandinavian countries have different solutions. From the examples that I can give right now, because this is the subject of our analysis, are the study visits that are taking place in the Netherlands, our judges were, in Germany, in Austria, now scheduled another visit to Denmark. Why Denmark? Because we just had an 11-day murder trial there, Peter Madsen -- it's about the murder of a journalist. The trial lasted 11 days. We have examples from Austria where the murder trial lasted two weeks. So that these good practices... [[Exactly.]] ...we analyze, collect, and what you're seeing right now is the result of the enormous work we've done. These data, which I have shown to you, have flown enormously from the regional courts, from hundreds of thousands of judges who complain that the current criminal trial system makes it impossible for them to judge cases effectively. On the other hand, with regard to these examples, solutions from other countries, we do not stop there. I'll give you an example of Italian, where, in a situation where the defendant, the defender, doesn't stand up without justification, there are lawyers waiting in line in the hallway, and the first better judge takes and deals with this defender. In our reality, it would be a request to read the files, Mr Kropiwnicki's comments that this is incompatible with the European Court of Human Rights. In Italy you can. [[But Italians have worse stats than us.]] So these examples, these good examples, these good practices we take from other countries, these negative ones... [[...the data are also in the Union.]] ...reject, ignore, and work. Please support the project. Mr Jachnik asked a question about recording criminal cases. Mr President, here, the department that is involved in computerisation - I am not responsible for this - will also provide you with comprehensive information in writing, as well as regarding issues related to refusal or remission of criminal proceedings. So that I wanted to ask you once again to support this very good project. In addition to these issues that I have mentioned here, I pay attention to issues such as: Forms of justification, I draw attention to cases concerning the selection of witnesses and victims. There was also a question by Mr Dziuba concerning the victims. These victims, if they make such claims, will be able to be interrogated, of course, but the point is that we don't have to interrogate $3,000. witnesses, where 10, 30 witnesses can be interviewed, and all others, such as: on online fraud also whether insurance frauds, often repeat the same circumstances, while the only evidence that it is, that is in the law, is a screen from a computer or data, so-called. ID evidence. These victims make their own requests not to interrogate them, have nothing to add, and are unnecessarily dragged to the hearings from the second end of Poland. Justifications in forms - this will also significantly speed up proceedings and contribute to the fact that, above all, the parties themselves, citizens, participants in proceedings will finally be able to find what they are interested in in this justification. Today these justifications are, as you know perfectly well, often counted in hundreds, thousands of pages, not only reading but also drawing up such justifications, where the first part is the historical part, extensive information about what happened earlier in the proceedings. However, such a form will certainly also contribute to the fact that every citizen will be able to see clearly where there is a judgment on guilt, where there is a judgment on punishment, where there are factual findings, what the court found to be credible, what the court found to be unbelievable. So that there is nothing better, such patterns of justification, too, Commissioner, are drawn from examples from other countries. The role of the victim in the process is strengthened, also mentioned earlier, Mr Wróblewski mentioned. Evidence precision - you pointed to the problem of probabilitation. Today we are dealing very often with such situations that another evidence request concerns the appointment of an expert in a situation where the previous evidence request was rejected with the justification that the expert is dead. But a defense attorney like that doesn't do anything to himself, and he's making another request for evidence to be heard by the same expert. This kind of absurdity is supposed to set up a dam. It is in countries such as Italy that we have a proof of this. The concentration of evidence, the parties are obliged to show what evidence they have under the rigour of inability or limitation of their appointment in the further phase of the proceedings, not waiting for the last time, delay and just before closing the judicial duct, to submit to the court hundreds of thousands of different evidences, often absolutely absurd. Therefore, we end with this kind of fiction, we do it for society, so that it does not have to be a witness to this kind of absurdity, which I mentioned earlier, we do it for people so that they do not often have to be dragged from the other end of Poland, even from abroad. A witness from abroad. Someone noticed - it was in the statements of probably all the people asking - the so-called. supplementing the carrying out of the evidence. Mr President, if we have such a witness from the United States or from another country today - more and more witnesses from abroad are taking part in the proceedings today - such evidence is lost, it cannot be carried out if the medical justification from the accused is affected an hour before the telefax hearing. Everyone's here, the judge's here, the protocolant's here, the attending's here, the prosecutor's here, the witnesses are here, often from abroad, the expert's here, not only the defendant's. Such situations - the judges showed them to us, and I have them here in the file - cause that for many months, even years the procedure is effectively blocked by such tricks. How do I solve this? That's how: supplemental proof. If the defendant and his defender are not present, the so-called. security of evidence, i.e. the hearing of a witness or expert at the next date on which he appears - this may be the second, third time limit - and he will be able to apply for supplementary proof, so that we retain all guarantees. [[Oh, no, 'cause you're writing that at the next trial.]] Let me repeat: I guarantee you that many severely ill people will suddenly miraculously recover. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u391	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats to present our position on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws, print No. 3251. The aim of the project under consideration is to improve and accelerate criminal proceedings, to eliminate the perceived shortcomings and legislative errors that occur in the procedural law and to adapt procedural regulations to the challenges of technological development. The draft assumes that judges will not announce judgments and resolutions at a sitting that no one will attend. The draft also states that judges will not have to mention all the protocols and documents that are evidence at the hearings. The new provision assumes that, once the judicial duct is closed, all protocols and documents of evidence shall be deemed to have been disclosed without reading. The proposed reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure is also intended to put an end to the combinations with medical dismissals, which result in increased proceedings in courts. It's a common method of judicial obstruction today. After the reform, this activity is to be significantly reduced. Regardless of the reason for the absence of the parties, witnesses may be heard and other evidence may be provided for the hearing. The project also assumes that the evidence request (e.g. the document, the appointment of a witness) submitted after the deadline will in principle be rejected. The exception is only if the evidence determines the criminal responsibility of the perpetrator, which is the consequence of the primacy of the principle of material truth in the trial. This solution is also intended to reduce the obstruction of proceedings by continuous reporting after the deadline of the evidence requests. The proposed amendments also provide for the withdrawal of unnecessary hearings. As the MS pointed out, it is now a serious burden for the police and prosecutors in investigations and investigations to question all victims in cases involving hundreds and even thousands of people. This is about online fraud, financial pyramids, loan sharks, and the sale of a whole series of defective goods. Resignation of the obligation to interrogate all victims is intended to improve and speed up preparatory proceedings and to prevent unnecessary interrogation of victims. The draft also assumes that the court will be able to refrain from directly questioning witnesses of whom it is known that they will not bring anything relevant to the case. It goes on for example. a situation where the witness can at most confirm circumstances that are not questionable and have been confirmed. Then it is enough to read at the hearing the testimony of such a witness before the prosecutor - explained MS. The proposal also provides for a reduction in the appointment of new witnesses or documentary evidence at the stage of the appeal. However, this will be acceptable if the appellant could not request evidence before the court of first instance or if the fact he wanted to prove could not be the subject of the original proceedings. At the same time, the reform strengthens the role of appeals courts. They'll be able to convict the defendant who was found guilty by the court of first instance, but conditionally dismissed the case. The appeal court will also be able to tighten the sentence itself by serving life imprisonment. At present, the highest penalty a court of appeal can impose is 25 years of imprisonment, and if it considers a life sentence to be justified, it can only refer the case to a review by the court of first instance. The proposed novel also provides that anyone will be able to indicate a post office box for the effective delivery of pleadings (e.g. The court, the prosecutor, the police). In addition, the changes are intended to ensure that people with disabilities and obsessively ill will no longer have problems receiving pleadings. The new rules will allow them to authorise any person selected to receive correspondence at the post office. This solution removes barriers to access to justice and improves proceedings. Furthermore, the proposal assumes that the reasons for the judgments will be drawn up on a special form, in accordance with strict rules. Thus, according to the project's authors, they will become understandable and transparent. High Izbo! The information provided in the explanatory memorandum of the project shows that the proposed amendments are intended to improve, simplify and speed up court proceedings. This request is, of course, valid. We all know cases of judicial obstruction and over any measure of extended proceedings. However, we believe that changes in the organisation of the work of judges and courts are more important than broad legislative changes in order to speed up and improve criminal proceedings. There is a need to increase the number of posts, to introduce the practice of court planning or to refer certain cases to courts, administrative authorities. This is the problem of the actual ability of judges and their assistants to perform their duties. If there are simply judges missing in many courts, there are no assistants, there is no efficient management in the exchange of governors or directors, it is not possible to recognize the same number of cases in a given time unit. You can't just do that! It should also be noted that, to a large extent, the proposed amendments have already been introduced into the Code, only the current governing team has withdrawn them. After all, on 27 September 2013, a major amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted, which entered into force on 1 July 2015. It was a thoughtful amendment, consulted for several months, developed in the environment of prosecutors, judges, lawyers. It was an amendment introduced under the motto of increasing the adversariality of the criminal process and contained many solutions to improve criminal proceedings. However, after the change of authorities on 11 March 2016, with effect from 15 April this year, a number of these amendments were withdrawn from the Code and returned to the original model of criminal proceedings. The changes were withdrawn in an unthinking, even accidental manner, before the 2013 reform could work for good. In the meantime, some of these changes that we can see in the current project were there. The authors of this project are completely inconsistent, because they are now restoring a large part of the solutions that they eliminated in the amendment two years ago. This means chaos and changing the procedure every now and then, without respect for the value of the sustainability and stability of the law. The question should also be asked why the Ministry of Justice has led to the removal of the article. 59a of the Penal Code. The recipe worked well, allowing him to stop prosecuting the perpetrator if he was reconciled to the victim. There are also positive elements in the project, e.g. the possibility of using information technology more widely in the delivery of procedural documents, and this should be commended.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u393	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 12 h 21 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Tax Order (Print No 3255). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The priority in recent years was to seal the tax system, especially as regards VAT, and improve VAT collection. Now it is time for the VAT system to simplify, improve the conditions for taxable persons to do business, give them more certainty. The current VAT system is complicated. It has too many entries in the annexes containing lists of goods subject to reduced rates. It contains numerous exemptions from the current Polish Classification of Products and Services. There is also a lack of certainty in this system, as there is no binding force for classification opinions issued by the Central Statistical Office in the field of classification of goods and services. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have prepared a draft law on amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Act Tax Order, which will simplify the system of VAT rates, will ensure simplicity, transparency and the friendly application of the provisions of the VAT Act on rates. Firstly, the proposal provides for a change in the way goods and services are identified for VAT purposes. We are moving away from the current Polish Classification of Products and Services, PKWiU 2008, to the Combined Nomenclature, a system commonly used in the world and in the European Union. In the field of services we move to the current Polish Classification of Products and Services, i.e. PKWiU 2015. Secondly, the proposal provides for the introduction of a new matrix of VAT rates, constructed on the basis of taxation at the same rate, where possible, of whole groups of goods and services, and for the adoption of a general rule of reduction by way of a downward equation. This new matrix will arrange and significantly reduce the number of items in the new annexes containing exceptions, but will not significantly reduce the number of those goods which are subject to a reduced rate of taxation. This will therefore be a simplification. Importantly, the new annexes will include goods and services subject to reduced VAT rates, which are currently listed in the Implementing Regulation. The new rules will be much simpler and easier to apply. Thanks to the new matrix, similar goods will be taxed at the same rate. This will eliminate existing inconsistencies and irrationality at stakes. For example, at different rates, fruit is taxed - that's 5% and 8% , books - 5% and 23% when it comes to bakery products, we have almost the full range - 5%, 8% And 23%. The new VAT matrix will also eliminate quite often criticised arbitrary criteria determining the amount of the rate, e.g. date of minimum durability or date of shelf-life or water content in waffles. Thirdly, we are planning to introduce binding joint information, i.e. an instrument that will allow the company to know what VAT rate it is to apply and will provide it with certainty as to the application of that rate. Thanks to the new matrix, the VAT rate will be reduced to the following goods: bread, where we will move from these three rates to the lowest rate, pastry products, soups, broths, homogeneous foods, where we will also move from 8% to 5%. This will also include diet foods for special medical purposes, certain infant and infant products such as baby foods for infants and young children, pacifiers, diapers, car seats - here the rate will fall from 8% to 5%. Hygienic articles such as pads, hygienic tampons, diapers - from 8% to 5%. From 1 June 2019 we intend to reduce the rates to so-called. e-books and e-mails, including on audio books downloaded via the Internet, will be reduced from 23% to 5%, including books not marked with ISBN symbol and newspapers and magazines not marked with ISSN symbols. I would like to stress that the changes we propose in this law are not fiscal. They aim at simplifying the system and reducing certain existing inconsistencies. However, due to the proposed reductions, it is necessary to maintain a certain balance and to increase the rates at a point in time for certain goods. And so on. there will be increased rates for certain seafood such as lobsters and octopuses, crustaceans, molluscs and aquatic invertebrates, crabs, langus, shrimps, oysters, mussels, snails, and caviar. Here, the stakes are going to rise from 5% to 23%. This will also include meals sold in various catering establishments, which are part of these products. Beverages with added fruit or vegetable juice if, generally speaking, this addition does not exceed 20% - here the rate will rise from 5% to 23%. On the other hand, we'll keep the 5% stake on the so-called. 100-percent juices and so-called. nectars, or juices, with more real juice or real vegetable purée. The stake on ice used for food purposes will rise from 8 to 23%. There will also be an increase in the rate for specialist journals, except for regional and local journals, for which we will maintain the rate of 5%. As so far, goods and services normally used for agricultural production, such as farm animals, seeds, fertilisers, and agricultural machinery strings, will be taxed at an 8% rate. At the unchanged level will remain covered by the 8% rate of living services related to culture, sport, recreation, passenger transport, maintenance works or catering services. In view of the doubts that arise, I would like to make it clear that there will be no increase in the rate for water treatment and water supply services for residents through water supply networks and for the supply of water outside this system, namely barrels or tanks, we will remain here at an rate of 8%. One of the key elements, which I would like to stress, which significantly changes the Polish tax system, is the introduction of new binding joint information. This is an instrument that will provide certainty about classification. Today we have such a situation that we can apply to the CSO for statistical classification of the goods and then with this obtained classification go after the so-called. tax interpretation. This is a bad system because these GUS interpretations are changing. They are prepared for purposes other than tax purposes. We want to introduce binding tax information issued by tax authorities, in this case by national tax information authorities. An important feature of this new instrument will be that it will be issued in the form of a decision, i.e. it will be inviolable. At the same time, it will protect the application of the rate set in it not only of the direct addressee, i.e. the one who sought this binding information, but also of its counterparties, buyers throughout the chain of purchase and sale through which the goods are going. On the other hand, if such a situation occurs, the Authority will change the previously issued joint interpretation, e.g. finds that he was wrong that the interpretation was wrong, that the protection of the taxpayer will be preserved until the end of the next trading period. For example, if someone has a monthly settlement period and received binding joint information in January, he will be able to apply the rate resulting from this previous information by the end of February. On the other hand, if someone settles quarterly, because such situations also occur, in the event of receiving a binding interpretation in January he will be able to benefit until June, which is until the next accounting period, the next quarter. In addition to protection, binding stand information also gives entrepreneurs an additional advantage. With this binding information, the taxpayer will be able to manage its risks. He will be able to check whether the goods in question are subject to a reverse charge, whether the so-called "reverse charge' applies to them. the institution of joint and several liability. He will simply be able to ask whether what he buys is covered by these specific regulations. It will also be able to determine whether it sells goods which entitles to special exemptions, e.g. the application of an individual exemption. We anticipate that these new rates should start to apply from 1 January 2020. We want the provisions of the Act on which we are proceeding, the High Sejm, to be able to recommend, in a timely and efficient manner, that taxpayers have time between the entry into force of the Act and the application of these new rates from 1 January 2020 for preparation and application of binding joint information, where they will not be sure. We anticipate that, during the transitional period between the publication of the Act and the start of the application of the new rates, binding joint information will be sought, i.e. decisions on the rates that we will apply in 2020. Such a solution will enable companies to prepare for these new rates, to prepare their IT systems and to resolve any doubts. In addition, the project introduces minor changes in the scope of so-called. a flat-rate tax for farmers. This system will cover all products derived from the agricultural activity of a flat-rate farmer. This currently applies only to goods listed in Annex 2 of the VAT Act. In this respect, we will align the criteria with personal income tax. In the bill submitted, we have also translated the references contained in the provisions to the current PKWiU 2008 into appropriate CN codes for goods and the corresponding PKWiU 2015 symbols for services. In principle, these changes do not affect the scope of the relevant regulations. We estimate that the financial impact of this law will be negative and will be minus 328 million PLN per year. In 2019, if the law were to enter into force in the middle of the year, it would be lower and would be minus 109 million. We will also bear the costs of introducing a system of binding joint information. This will require staff costs and the organisation of workplaces. In total, we estimate that over the next 10 years, i.e. in the years 2019 and 2029, these costs will amount to about PLN 288 million, almost PLN 289 million. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that despite the point increases in VAT rates for certain goods, the planned solutions do not have a fiscal objective. Our aim is to maximise the simplification of the VAT rate system, to ensure simplicity and transparency. This is intended to contribute significantly to improving the business environment for taxpayers, including micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. We assume that the new matrix of VAT rates will facilitate the application of tax legislation and their correct application in economic practice. The proposed regulations on the introduction of binding stand information, which gives taxpayers protection, will ensure stability in the area of tax law application. This will reduce the costs of running a business. This is a good project. It ensures simplicity, transparency and friendship of the system. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u395	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u396	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my pleasure to present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Tax Order Act, print No 3255. The proposed law aims to maximise the simplification of the VAT rate system and to ensure its simplicity and transparency. It will definitely contribute to improving the business conditions of taxpayers, including micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. Polish VAT rules provide for the application of three rates: 23%, 8% and 0% rates intended for intra-Community transactions. Multi-annual practice of applying so-called. The PKWiU has shown that the system of VAT rates based on it in Poland is indeed extensive and complex, resulting in significant difficulties in carrying out business activities related to the application of the applicable tax rates. It must be added that the PKWiU is also based on the national reverse load system, so-called. reverse charge, or a flat-rate system for farmers, as the Minister said. For this reason, it is planned to change the way goods and services are identified for VAT purposes and to depart from the application of the Polish Classification of Products and Services of PKWiU 2008 to the Combined Nomenclature for goods and the current Polish Classification of Products and Services of PKWiU 2015 in the field of services. At the same time, the project introduces instruments that give taxpayers and tax authorities greater certainty as to the correct application of VAT rules, inter alia. as regards the rates of that tax. The project introduces a matrix of VAT rates on the basis of a radical simplification of this system of rates. The aim of the introduced flat-rate scheme for farmers is to support agriculture by compensating at least part of the expenditure related to investments and the purchase of inputs. In view of the need to harmonise the application of tax legislation by reference to the Individual Income Tax Act, it is proposed to include the definition of agricultural products of all goods derived from the agricultural activity of a flat-rate farmer. The proposed law introduces binding relief information, which will provide taxpayers and tax authorities with more certainty as to the correctness of the tax rates applied. The binding joint information shall be intended, inter alia, for the purposes of this Regulation. the protection of the taxable person using it for VAT purposes. It will be a protective instrument - binding on the tax authorities of the entity for which it was issued and for a specific commodity or service. The objective of this project, i.e. taxation of the various VAT rates of the entire so-called departments. the combined nomenclature, will facilitate the use of tax legislation and their correct application in practice in the economy and reduce the time and costs of carrying out certain administrative activities. Regulation on the introduction of binding stand information giving specific protection to taxable persons will ensure stability in the area of tax law, which will reduce the costs of doing business. The proposed changes will have a similar effect in the flat-rate scheme for farmers. It will not only simplify the application of regulation in this area but also adapt the system to the current realities of economic life. The planned changes are not, as the Minister said, fiscal, but are intended to simplify the system and to significantly reduce the inconsistencies in the application of VAT rates. Simplification of tax rates should give an impetus to development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the Government's draft law on the amendment of the law on value added tax and the Law on tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Tax Order Act, print No 3255. The project defines the so-called. a new rate matrix for goods and services, i.e. for certain goods and services, there is a change in rates. For most, they do not change. It is assumed that all groups of goods should be taxed at the same rate, but some changes in rates raise significant objections. The inclusion of changes in beverages with a fruit contribution of 20% or less is of great concern both for producers of these products and for fruit growers. There were protests by the National Juice Union. The changes threaten to significantly reduce the cost-effectiveness of production and thus the deterioration of the economic situation of both producers and Sadists. Entrepreneurs and trade unionists in the letter of 4 March 2019 addressed to Prime Minister Morawiecki foresee a 50% reduction in the production of beverages and consequently a 25% reduction in employment in processing plants and a 150,000 reduction in the demand for fruit. t per year, including 120 000. t apples. According to press reports, the increase in the rate for fruit drinks is also opposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. At this point, it should be stressed that in 2017, a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, introduced a draft law amending the Act on the Tax on Goods and Services setting a single rate of 5% for all food products. This project was rejected. The uniform rate for food has a number of advantages. It means simplifying tax law. It goes in the same direction, only further, because it concerns large group taxation at one rate, which is important for entrepreneurs. It also leads to a reduction of fraud and is also beneficial for the poorest. In view of its advantages, such a uniform rate should be included in this project. It would also address the problems mentioned earlier. The draft also provides for a revision of the rules for identifying goods and services for tax purposes by departing from the application of the 2008 Polish Classification of Products and Services and applying to goods of the Combined Nomenclature and to services of PKWiU of 2015. The consequences of the use of CN codes are significant changes in the scope of the reverse charge and joint and several liability. The project also introduces a new joint information binding institution that deserves a positive assessment. Binding spot information will be a decision issued by the Director of National Tax Information indicating how the goods whether the service is to be classified for the purposes of taxation on goods and services and, above all, for the purpose of determining the appropriate rate. How can this opinion be summed up? Well, if this project had one 5% rate for all food, it would have deserved a positive, positive assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u399	Thank you, too. And I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Tax Order Act. First of all, I would like to say that we are pleased to take advantage of the proposals made by the Kukiz club15 for a bill reducing VAT on products for infants and children. At the same time, I would like to remind you that a year ago you rejected this project. Several positive changes in the form of a 3% reduction in VAT rate do not compensate for drastic increases up to 18% for fruit drinks. Under the cover of minor positive changes you are attacking increased VAT of Polish producers, processors, millions of customers and you are attacking the health of Polish children and young people. For a few weeks, people who have been outraged by the new proposals of the Ministry of Finance to raise the VAT rate from 5% to 23% on drinks based on national fruit and vegetables, while reducing VAT for imported citrus fruits to the lowest possible. Such drastic changes will be a blow to Polish sadists, vegetable producers and processors. I must admit that I do not see the Polish position in the Ministry's proposals. Moreover, I believe that the bill will contribute to the destruction of Polish fruitage, vegetable and processing industries. As regards the consequences of the implementation of the proposed solutions, according to estimates, the demand for Polish fruit and vegetables will be reduced by around 150,000. t per year. As a result of the change in VAT rates, as many as 1/4 people working in the production and processing of fruit drinks will lose their jobs. The fruit and vegetables market in Poland is not stable due to the Russian embargo and increasing competition from the Ukrainian market and China. I understand the problems in the fruit and vegetables market due to external factors, but I am unable to understand how the Polish Ministry can harm Polish farmers, entrepreneurs and consumers. If in the opinion of the government this is the protection of the interests of Poles, then I can only think of one sentence: God protect me from friends, with enemies I can handle myself. Poland is a tycoon in the production of fruit and vegetables. Our country is leading in the production of black currants, cherries or beets, and every fourth apple produced in Europe comes from Polish orchards. With the growing production of apples, there is a decrease in their consumption. Over the last 20 years it has decreased by more than half, from 25 kg to 12 kg per person. The opposite trend is apparent in the case of citrus whose sales, by reducing VAT, the Ministry of Finance wants to promote. In view of such proposals, I dare say that economic patriotism is a subject which is the authors of the draft law completely alien. Supporting the national economy, improving the condition of Polish farms, as well as domestic entrepreneurs and the situation of their employees are apparently nothing more than empty words. The culmination of these absurd proposals is the idea of reducing the VAT rate for sweet bread, chips and salty snacks. Who's gonna benefit from that? As usual, foreign producers of highly processed food will benefit. Who's gonna pay for this? Consumers, but the price will not be just a specified amount. It will also be our health, especially the health of children and young people, for whom we already have a plague of obesity today. On the other hand, simplification states promoting junk food will lead to the drama of thousands of children and young people. Atones the beauty of Poland resort. The Ministry of Finance is one thing, and the Ministry of Agriculture, health, families don't matter at all. In conclusion, I do not understand why, despite the opposition of farmers, producers and processors, despite the negative position of the agricultural committee presented in the desier to the Prime Minister, the ministry is so fiercely defending its proposals. Today we have the first reading of the bill, but given the behaviour of the ministry officials at the meeting of the agricultural committee and the presented version of the project, on behalf of thousands of farmers, producers of vegetables and fruit, processors and parents and consumers, I propose that the project be rejected at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kukiz, 15 stands on the ground of the Polish state, protecting the interests of Polish citizens, parents and farmers. I appeal to the government: stop acting in favour of international corporations and think of the Polish state right. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u401	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u402	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the print project no. 3255. The proposed act aims to change the way goods and services are identified for VAT purposes, as well as the departure from the application of the existing Polish Classification of Products and Services - PKWiU 2008. It is proposed to apply the Combined Nomenclature to goods and the current Polish Classification of Products and Services - PKWiU 2015, in the field of services. According to the applicants, i.e. the government, this new way of identifying goods and services for VAT purposes will increase confidence in the application of the tax rates rules. The provisions of this project can be grouped into five thematic blocks, but I will not exchange them. One of the first is the new matrix of VAT rates. The introduction of a new matrix involves the development of new lists of goods and services with the adoption of the principle of applying a single rate to the entire sections of the Combined Nomenclature, i.e. customs classification, as far as possible. This causes in many cases a reduction or increase in existing rates in an irrational, incomprehensible way which is unacceptable. It is a mistake to arrange rates almost exclusively according to classification divisions and without factual justification, e.g. healthier, referring to the quality of goods, their usefulness, origin or economic importance. Thus, in many cases, the offer of rates is simply paradoxical. The amendment involves a reduction of up to 5% in VAT for products such as chips, wafers, biscuits and up to 8% for sugar. The promotion of highly processed products with high sugar content has nothing to do with promoting healthy food and will certainly have a negative impact on healthy market trends and trends. Another example of irrational action is the reduction of up to 5% of the VAT rates for tropical fruit and citrus fruit, some nuts: pistachio, coconut, almond, citrus peel or melons, while increasing from 5% to 23% of the VAT rates for beverages containing at least 20% fruit or vegetable juice. Such actions are probably clear evidence that the government does not care about its own domestic producers, both farmers supplying raw materials of Polish origin and processors related to the production of fruit drinks from native raw materials. This government proposal of VAT rates strengthens the presence of junk food on the Polish market. It misses the principles of healthy nutrition and strikes Polish agriculture, which in particular in recent years is facing many difficulties in the development of our Polish fruits and vegetables. Today's protest in Warsaw, which involved spreading Polish apples, even calls for the government to notice a huge problem which, as we all know, is particularly deepened by the Russian embargo and the duty-free import of fruit from Ukraine. Increase to 23% VAT on beverages containing at least 20% fruit or vegetable juice will destroy the traditional production of pasteurised beverages produced by Polish companies from indigenous raw materials from local farms, which live from their own orchard or garden and pay taxes in the country. These changes will strengthen the advantage of carbonated drinks. Similarly, reducing VAT on exotic fruit from 8% to 5% will reduce the competitiveness of Polish fruit. These negative proposals for changes in VAT rates are negatively assessed by farmers, which has been repeatedly reported by agricultural organisations, and have been negatively assessed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development before the government has adopted the project. High Izbo! Ordering the readability of VAT rates must not destroy Polish farmers, sadists and processors and cannot promote junk food in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, on behalf of my club, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I propose that this project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u403	Thank you very much, Member. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to present her position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law is primarily an increase in VAT for the most popular drinks in Poland. As a result, the retail price of beverages with more than 20% of fruit juice will increase by 18%. This is the main change you are proposing under the new VAT network introduced by this law. It is estimated, as I said, that the retail price for the final customer of fruit drinks with fruit juice content above 20% will increase by 18%. As a result, Polish children will start drinking rubbish sodas with practically marginal fruit content. This is done while reducing VAT rates for tropical and citrus fruits and certain nuts. This is, in your opinion, an example of standardising VAT rates, only that some fruit juices will continue to be paid in different ways, because up to 50% there will be a different rate and more than 50% - different. It's not a simplification of the tax system, Minister, it's a mockery. But starting from the beginning: the VAT rate system is actually extensive and complex in Poland, which causes considerable difficulties in conducting business activity, but also great possibilities of combining for those who want to circumvent tax obligations, avoid paying tax or even cheat refunds. From this way of sealing the tax system - it is about simplifying the tax system, simplifying VAT and harmonising rates - the Government of Law and Justice has so far not benefited at all, although you talk so much about sealing. To this day actually similar goods, e.g. the drinks I mentioned are interest-bearing at different rates, and after the introduction of the new VAT network they will continue to have different rates. It is absurd to take out coffee and coffee served on site, in a restaurant, interest-bearing at different rates or toilet bowl bought in the shop by a typical purchase of goods and toilet bowl purchased with installation at home also interest-bearing at different rates. This is how tax regulations have been dealt with in Poland for years and you are still doing nothing about it. What I said was the most important thing: the question of drinks that Polish children drink. It's not like today we're gonna force consumers to drink drinks with 100 percent juice, for two basic reasons that you should know well. First of all, customer tastes have been shaped for many years by habits, preferences. We can't change them. Not everyone has to like 100 percent fruit juice, but it's good to drink a drink with at least 40% fruit juice content. Secondly, not all juices can be made so that they contain 100% Fruits, Minister. Blackcurrant drink is an example of a drink that cannot be made so that it has more fruit content. The effect will be as it is estimated that the decrease in sales can reach up to 50%, in favour of the inferior quality of juices, sweetened carbonated beverages that do not actually contain any nutrients derived from fruit and vegetables, because these will just be 18% It's cheaper on the assumption... I mean, sorry, the better ones won't have that 18 percent advantage, so the worse ones will naturally be cheaper. This situation could lead to even greater difficulties in the fruit and vegetables market. An example of vegetables thrown on the streets of Warsaw today shows that farmers, sadists, processors are already on the brink of endurance. If there is indeed a decrease in production, as is estimated, at 50% , for the industry this will mean a 25% reduction in employment, but, even worse, for Polish farmers it will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] meant that the industry's demand for fruit was reduced by 150 000. t per year, of which 120 thousand. t is apples. Apples were thrown on Warsaw streets today, because farmers no longer have an idea what to do with apples, very delicious Polish apples. As this law will simply not be insensitive to consumers, and some consumers will beat their pockets precisely because the VAT rate is increased for fruit by 18%, it is modern for rejecting the draft law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u405	I understand that this is the proposal made by the Member. Again. My question is, is that what you're requesting? A motion for rejection? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Yes, rejection.]] Good. This speech concludes the part concerning speeches on behalf of the clubs. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. You are beginning Mr Jerzy Gosievski... [[I'm sorry, I'm not on the list, and I signed up.]] I think you're in eighth position, so please wait nicely. I'm sure you'll have a chance to ask a question. We begin with Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u406	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, According to the bill, entrepreneurs will have an easier task. The draft law and the amendments introduced support farmers and agricultural and fruit producers. [[Where?]] The speeches of your Members are primarily due to a lack of knowledge, I suppose, because otherwise you would not be making such statements, and therefore, among other things. I would ask the Minister to answer three questions. Are all fruit and vegetable drinks with a juice content of less than 50% will be covered by a 23-percent VAT rate? Will all fruit and vegetable drinks produced in Poland and from Polish fruits be subject to maximum VAT? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In accordance with the European Union Directive, will taxation vary depending on the proportion of natural juice in the beverages produced? Thank you. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr, we invite you to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and we will explain this to you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u407	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Farmers are protesting because their work is no longer paying off. Farmers protest because no party has really cared about their interests for more than 20 years. Farmers protest desperately to show how many problems there are now in Polish agriculture. Farmers are protesting and protesting, and it's gonna get worse because the Minister isn't interested in this case. Minister Ardanowski, you should be here to answer the questions of the Members, the questions of farmers, because you are increasing VAT on fruit and vegetable drinks. This leads to an increasing collapse in Polish agriculture. After all, there was a problem with drought and estimation in every region where this drought occurred. There was a problem with the soft fruit, there was a problem with the orchards, there was a problem with the apples. And now you're raising taxes on fruit and vegetables. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is necessary to create factories to ensure that farmers sell what is left after the season and not increase taxes. Minister, you are responsible for this and you must respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u409	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance about their understanding of the Polish state, because on the one hand you increase VAT, leaving in Polish orchards 150 thousand. t apples, on the other hand, you lower VAT on citrus, increasing their sales in Poland. On the one hand, you are talking about the fact that you are taking care of the health of Polish children and young people, and on the other hand you are reducing VAT on junk food. We need to maintain some consistency in our statements and actions. I believe that the Polish Ministry of Finance should care primarily about Polish industry, about Polish processors, about Polish consumers, and not try to say: it will be easier. Who's it gonna be easier for? Foreign capital? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u411	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u412	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Has the Minister of Finance seen the Minister of Agriculture, and has the Minister of Agriculture submitted to him a dissertation of the agricultural committee against raising the VAT rate for fruit drinks? Why didn't the government consider it? No wonder Russia, that Ukraine, that others are imposing an embargo. Why is the Polish government imposing an embargo on fruit in Poland? I mean, that's the imposition of an embargo. 150,000. t Polish fruits will not be sold. You will not enchant anything here, PiS Members, because you have one doctrine: destroy Polish agriculture. Now you've shown it in this example. Let the officials work because Polish farmers have to sell Polish fruits to Polish factories. Don't you understand that PiS country? I am surprised that the Minister of Agriculture does not care about Polish farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an outrageous bill, which is the destruction of Polish agriculture. This year you have pulled 8 billion zlotys of VAT from Poles, and now you want to destroy Polish agriculture with this tax, as well as the sadization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u413	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Ardanowski, although he is not here. Does he know that? Does he agree to the destruction of Polish agriculture, fruitage and processing at the same time, because it is all together? [[Applause]] Besides, here I wanted to say to a colleague from Kukiza - because you concluded that never and nobody - that in 2014 agricultural expenditure in the state budget was 8% total expenditure, and today they are only 5.4%. [[Applause]] Year by year, agricultural expenditure is 1.5 billion less, so you can put this together. I'm not saying it was wonderful, because there's always been some kind of flaw, but let's not say it's always been the same. That's not the way it's been. And I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance if he knows that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that some fruits cannot be made of 100% juice, e.g. You can't make that kind of juice out of aronia. I don't know why you're making records here, that nectars and juices are 100 percent, while those that have 30, 40 or 50%. No... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u415	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you where is Minister Ardanowski, who instead of defending his rights today, instead of defending Polish sadists, Polish processors and, as a result, Polish consumers too, hid and pretended that the problem did not concern him. This bill is an increase in the price for the most popular drinks in Poland. It is a law whereby Polish children and Polish consumers will bear 18% more VAT on your favorite drinks every day. Like I said, not everyone has to like drinks 100 percent, not all juices can be made. as 100 percent fruit-based. It is an outrageous bill, it is a law, where at the expense of the Polish consumer and the fruit collector, and the processors [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT is reduced on tropical and citrus fruits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u417	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u418	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do not increase VAT on fruit drinks, fruit and vegetables. Polish agriculture needs to be taken care of. Finally accept the agricultural program of the Kukiz club15. Where are your promises from the election campaign? Where's the higher surcharges? Where's the Minister of Agriculture? When will you accept the good solutions of Kukiz15 to rebuild Polish agriculture, but not the method of raising taxes? Do you know that Polish fruits and vegetables are the best in the world? In order to maintain this opinion, we need to support our farmers who feed us and defend us, as we know from history. I already told you from this lecturer that Polish vegetables on manure dominate vegetables from other countries and win against them unrivalledly. These are vegetables and fruits that can lie in bed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] lie for a long time, not like other piers - blackened, molded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u419	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. And this is the time, Mr President, to be asked by you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u420	At first, a technical remark. I looked over my shoulder and I thought I was first or second, so I asked that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u421	But it's time, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u422	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u423	Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u424	Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I share the position of my colleagues fully, perhaps with the exception of Mr Gosievski, who accuses us of a lack of knowledge. I don't think that was very clever, at least. [[We're aware of that.]] And now I have another question for the Minister. Namely, why increased to 23% the rate for milk replacers such as vegetable, soy, almond or coconut milk? Such solutions are detrimental to people suffering from certain ailments: lactose intolerance, cow protein, some other similar ailments, and it is quite large [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social group. What does the Ministry of Finance have against this group, in general? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u425	Thank you. And the last question at this point will be asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, please listen. On 19 February 2019 the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, at its meeting on 19 February, heard information from finance and agriculture ministers and unanimously the votes of PiS, Kukiz, Platform, Modernist voted Dezyderate 10: Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on planned changes in VAT rates. We have unanimously stated that we are negatively assessing the proposals to increase VAT on beverages and fruit, to reduce VAT on imported citrus fruit. Minister, it's a disgrace! Where's Minister Ardanowski? [[Applause]] It's not enough to take pictures in the barn and on the stubble. It is not enough to say that it takes care of Polish agriculture. It is here, in this House at night, that Sadders and Farmers are allowed [[♪ The bell ♪]] They lost their income. Where's Minister Ardanowski? Where's your answer to the dissertation? Please respond to the dissertation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u427	Thank you. Before answering the question of correcting Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz,15. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Lubna Cukrownia in Kazimierza Wielkiego through sugar limits has been eliminated. Farmers cannot produce sugar beet, while the inhabitants of the city of Kazimierz the Great lost their jobs. Today there are no sugar limits. Szchucin - buy-out tobacco by selling Polish tobacco companies to foreign corporations. The collapse of this redemption. Farmers produce less and less tobacco, here let's put aside health issues, while it comes from France, and we cannot produce it. Such agricultural policy in the 1990s, at the beginning of the two thousand years, led to the destruction of Polish agriculture. So that you do not tell here, Madam, a fairy tale about how good it was. Save us from this defence of Polish agriculture, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u429	I ask you to answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can start by referring to the most resounding issue here, namely drinks, nectars and fruits. I would like us to now adopt a classification that we also adopt for VAT purposes. We're not talking about drinks, we're not talking about juices. We're talking about drinks, nectars and juices. Juices are those products which are classified as containing 100% a fruit or vegetable contribution. Nectars are products that are classified according to... [[Don't teach us that.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Okay, but there were questions here, I'm sorry, there were questions here...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u431	Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, this is the time to respond. If the Minister uses these 15 minutes, we'll see. But let him answer. [[Your marshal, this is bullshit.]] But no one has bothered you, Madame, to present your position. Then allow the Minister to answer. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: I would like to refer to the allegations that have been raised about the fact that 100% juice from certain fruits cannot be made. I would like to clarify that we have taken this request into account. In fact, there are fruits that can't be made into 100 percent juice. These are, I don't know, black and white currants, arones or plums. All these fruits fall in the nectar category, if they contain 25% for currants, if they contain 30% as regards plums, and e.g. 35% when it comes to cherries. And in these cases, the new matrix retains a 5% VAT rate on these beverages, because we recognised the argument that was made during the legislative work that it was impossible to make 100% juice from certain fruits. It's been taken into account... [[Dezyderat.]] So we've lowered, we've given up our original proposal, and we've decided that we really need to take into account something like nectar, which is something that's not juice, because it can't be juice, because the share of fruit can't go up to 100%. That is why I would like us to understand that the Ministry of Finance has accepted this argument. [[We understand. You don't understand.]] We've accepted the argument that you can't make 100 percent of some fruit juice. This argument is accepted. Therefore, I began by saying that we should consider that there is a division. And this division will be preserved in the new VAT Act, in this new matrix. The second point is that there will be some goods Or those juices that are going to contain a little bit bigger... I mean, nectars that will contain a slightly larger share of fruit... [[Drinks. Drinks.]] Okay, I'll get to the drinks in a minute. ...which will also be taxed at a rate of 5%, e.g. in the case of apple nectars or tomato nectars, this share will have to be 50%. On the other hand, when it comes to drinks, they are those that contain exactly 20%. This is due to a historical history. Namely, a long time ago, the CSO issued a statistical opinion on classification and said in this opinion that if something contained 20% A fruit contribution, that's a drink. And that's what made the market stable so that 20% is 5%. VAT. [[Polish market.]] Yes, this practice has stabilised on the Polish market. Now this project that we are introducing, in our opinion, will shift market trends in this direction, that producers will have to shift and produce more, say, nectars... [[That's not true.]] ...which will contain more fruit contributions. [[You just want to destroy Polish farmers.]] No, I'm not going to. The fact that the demand for apples or soft vegetables will fall is not necessarily justified. Because the reduced rate for juices and nectars will result in an increase in consumption... [[That's not true.]] ...drinks, nectars and juices. It's something that... [[What are you basing it on?]] We're basing this on our estimate of the demand for these... [[What institution?]] Okay. I'm sorry, okay. We're basing it on our estimations. We can't see... [[Ours, which is whose?]] ...on estimates of the Ministry of Finance. We do not see such a risk that the demand for Polish apples or Polish soft fruits will fall because we are introducing this new matrix of rates. [[Of course it's gonna fall.]] Good. [[Maybe you'll listen to the professionals. The Ministry of Agriculture...]] [[Why don't you listen?]] Okay, maybe I could just... I answer questions about drinks, juices and nectars. Member, please. I don't want to do it again. [[...like a dumb minister telling stories.]] Member, please. Again, I'm paying attention. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: In conclusion, when it comes to juices containing 100% a fruit or vegetable contribution, the rate shall be 5%. As regards nectars, which will contain a fruit or vegetable contribution according to the so-called. The juice directive, there we will also keep the rate of 5%. Only those drinks that contain 20% a fruit contribution or less - because most of these are now on the market - will be taxed at 23% according to the new matrix. As regards the reduction of the tropical fruit rate, this is a simplification. It means that we treat all the fruits the same way. [[Chips?]] When it comes to salt sticks and chips, these kinds of products, we treat these products... About the fingers, that's it. It's just bread. If we reduce and simplify bread, we treat it as bread. Chips are processed vegetables. If we... I mean, we can introduce... The introduction of a special rate for chips would require a special provision to complicate the system. [[And drinks don't.]] As far as your question is concerned, Mr Nykiel's question concerning the so-called. milk, here too, the situation is that soy or almond milk are essentially drinks, they contain less than 20% that contribution. And as far as problems such as lactose intolerance are concerned, these are products such as lactose-free milk, they can normally be bought, they are not expensive, they will be at a rate of 5%. As far as protein intolerance is concerned, it is possible to classify certain products as medical products or devices and in this respect a rate of 5% will be applied. I think I answered all the questions. I'd love to hear... That's all, Minister, isn't it? Thank you very much in this situation. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, has tabled a request for corrigendum. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute. [[Can I correct it, too?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u432	Dear Marshal! Minister! I'd like to correct it because you didn't understand what I said and you didn't answer the most important thing. The Committee on Agriculture, composed of members of the PiS, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, Kukiz, Polish People's Party, said in gromio 100% against this project. And you haven't said a word to me why this opinion or lack of an answer hasn't been presented to Parliament. That's one thing. Second. And what is our interest in the opinions of the CSO in this case, if we have Polish farmers in the balance, for whom you are imposing an embargo, because they will not produce, because the demand will be smaller, Polish producers of fruit drinks, against the fact that you are to have easier? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think that's the point. I would like you to understand and tell Prime Minister Morawiecki that there was a dissertation from this parliament, and he did not read it because you did not answer it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u433	Thank you. And a request for correction was made by Mrs Dorota Niedziela, also by the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. I remind you, time is one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u434	Minister! For God's sake, you want to tell me that chips are processed vegetables and we will have a lower tax, and children will eat them, and a drink from Poland, which is unique in Europe, because it contains more than 20% of natural juice from Polish fruits, will be taxed higher because the officials so decided? I wanted to tell you and show you that in the agriculture committee we showed you the problem, and you still insist and explain to me that chips are processed vegetables, and juices made of natural Polish fruits, apples, are worse than chips. You continue to translate as an official who does not understand at all, what he says is that a drink, which has 20% juice from Polish apples, from Polish orchards, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's worse than chips. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u435	The Minister would like to refer to... [[And eight billion extorted VAT. Hands fall off.]] ...to these corrections or not? Minister, do you wish to speak again? You're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]] There you go. [[I take that as a name gift.]] Happy birthday to you today. All the Kristins who are in the room, all the good names. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Now, Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen... Yes. [[Voice from the room: Only with peace.]] Good. It's okay. Well, the VAT matrix is based on the combined nomenclature, I mean, we want to base it on the combined nomenclature. Combined nomenclature does not provide for as far-reaching divisions as e.g. separation of salt fingers or chips from individual product groups. Our aim is to simplify this system and, as part of simplifying this system, introducing further exceptions is de facto a complication of this system. As far as drinks are concerned, we disagree on the assessment. You estimate that the demand for Polish vegetables or fruits will fall. We estimate that not necessarily, because we will promote small, small producers of natural fruits, I don't know, apple juice pressed, sold, I don't know, unpasteurized or pasteurized even, but sold by just such small, small producers. It's great for them... [[What are you saying?]] ...because they will be taxed at a lower rate. However, unhealthy drinks containing a lot of sugar and only 20% of fruit will be taxed at a higher rate. [[In Polish drinks 20%?]] Yes. There's a lot of sugar in those drinks. We also have quite a firm opinion from the Ministry of Health, which shows that this is a movement in the right direction, that these drinks you are talking about are not healthy. That's what obesity comes from. [[And potato chips, vegetable products.]] Yeah, these drinks are made of obesity. And here we also have a position, there is also a position presented here... [[Chips are slimming.]] ...through various medical institutes, which also support the Ministry of Finance in this area. I believe that promotion with lower rates of healthy squeezed juices will not necessarily lead to negative effects on the Polish market of Polish vegetables and fruit, may even lead to increased demand. [[There's no institute to confirm that.]] There is also no credible, truly neutral, non-representative interest of specific lobbyist groups of the institute, which would confirm that there will be a decline that is foreseen by the National Juice Union. [[Drinks are equal to coca-cola. That's your idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u437	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I invite you to address Mr Sławomir Hajos, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the words of John Pietrzak's song, which is the theme of my speech: "There's a place at the confluence of the roads where he meets the West East..." Our navel of the world, our poor paradise... "There's a place like this..." Beautiful melodic song, beautiful words about our homeland, about Poland. At the confluence of the roads where he meets the West East. And maybe this contact between the West and the East, the meeting place, generally speaking, two different cultures, caused that over the centuries these areas experienced many dramatic turbulences and sufferings. But out of these sufferings, from these experiences from generation to generation, the nation was born on these lands in its inner strength. Of course, there was always a bit of chaff among the grains, but sooner or later these chaffs were gone, ended up in the trash of history, and separated pure grain conquered and even stronger in the next generations, passing on wisdom and national spirit in the genes of life. How clearly this is seen in modern times, today. Every day we don't think, we don't pay attention, we don't even realize how powerful the Polish people are. Unbelievably strong history, tradition, culture, family and faith. However, it is well known by those for whom Poland and Poles have long been salt in the eye. This is because our homeland does not fit in with the methodically introduced by certain environments of the new world order and new in this world of Europe. Therefore, for many, many years slowly and secretly, while other times harder and more openly, just as this is happening now, Poland is being attacked by external evil and its domestic supporters, to neutralize, weaken and consequently destroy the nation into a brainless mass of devalueless individuals, just as it is already in the countries of Western Europe. Everything that constitutes the identity and foundations of the state and nation is attacked. History, tradition, culture, family, everything that connects the national community in any way is under attack. There is no day that there is no attack on the Church and faith in the widely understood media and web portals. This was done in the past only by the occupiers. This deliberate and long-term ideological action is also carried out with the hands of some completely insane, obsessed environments and taking the example of useful idiots who do not understand the changing global political conditions. Trying to impose a perverted perception of reality. Sick ideologies are promoted, even those that are against any laws of biology. Trying to convince Poles to be secular and dark. He mocks and mocks Polishness. The Polish nation, however, mostly loving its native land with crosses, washed with water of baptism and purified prayers, cannot be disgraced in its unprecedented strength, will not be betrayed, will not be betrayed and will come out of this confrontation clean and even stronger, and the wind of history will blow the chaffs out of the national grain. This is expected by the ancestors who shed blood for this land so that on their graves beautiful and proud Poland could develop for those who will come after us. And finally, as we hear in John Pietrzak's work: From generations of labor, from sacrificial blood, from victorious glory come the days... "Help God, and persevere." "This is our country." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u439	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15, to make his statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u440	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a message about the exclusion of several cities in the Central Pomerania. This is about my beloved city Koszalin, but also about Kołobrzeg, Famous, Słupsk, Darłowo, Białogard, Świdwin or Szczecinek. Mrs. Marshal! In December 2018, these cities were cut off by communication from evening and night rail connections. Before exclusion we could reach Warsaw and back in the afternoon or at night. Now it is impossible to get to the capital and return early to places of residence unless you catch a train in Koszalin at hours. 18 to Stargard Szczecinski. There you can change if the second train waits to be in Warsaw in the morning. How long does it take to get to D.C.? You lose half the night and half the night. If someone has to be in D.C. in the morning, they have some business to do, a doctor's appointment or a job, and then they have to come back, they have to sleep in a hotel. That's how much time you waste half the night and half the night. There are additional costs for this too. Not everyone can afford it. There's no connection that can get you home in a short time. The government says it wants to restore the bus lines. That's great. People will come from the neighborhoods, but then what? There are no trains to go one way or the other. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rulers talk a lot about the construction of roads, about bus lines, and at the same time exclude the communication inhabitants of Central Pomerania. So one says and the other does. I believe that the representatives of the ruling party and the opposition are now organizing conferences, building roads and such things to promote themselves in the media - promises of cacanka, because it is an election year. I would appeal to the rulers and to the ministry, which is subject to the railroad, to really want to do something, not just speak-grass, to act and restore evening and night connections in the Central Pomerania, so that we are not as always an excluded region, visited by politicians only before the elections. For three years when I was driving, and sometimes I took night trains, I noticed that there were a lot of curatives in Kołobrzeg, Famous or Słupska. They get off and go to the sea to heal and breathe iodine, which improves health. Unfortunately, there's nothing to get there. I appeal once again to the rulers: restore the communication Central Pomerania so that it is possible to come to Warsaw, and return to Koszalin and neighbouring cities, which also lose. Former trains from Krakow to Kołobrzeg, from Przemyśl to Kołobrzeg or from Kołobrzeg to Łódź. You could drive. Now, unfortunately, you can't. If I leave in the morning, it's still good, it's Pendolino at an hour. 6.32, and I am in Warsaw at 6 p.m. 12. If I don't catch the train back at hours. 16.20 After the Sejm - I speak not only about myself but also about other people, because I have colleagues who also work and come back - if I do not go to Pendolino after hours. 16, I have to sleep, wait and only the next day I go to Gdynia in the morning and there I go on a train on the route Białystok - Szczecin. That's the way it's gonna be, and that's the way it's gonna be. I'd like to live in a normal country and travel normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-13-sejm-78-1.u441	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 14 March 2019 at the latest 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 43]]
