ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on the submission of certain authentic documents in the Member States of the European Union. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1142, and the report of the Commission In print No 1142 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The law we will be discussing was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on 10 April this year. This law, the Act on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union, was proceded in the Sejm as a government submission. It was adopted almost unanimously in the Sejm: 411 Members voted against 5 and 2 abstentions. In short, this law can be defined as the implementation of Union law, specifically the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 July 2016 on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain official documents in the European Union, amending Regulation of the European Union of 2012 No 1024. That Regulation entered into force on 16 February 2019. It shall be of general scope, binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union. The main objective of the Regulation, as I have already mentioned, is to simplify procedures for mutual recognition of documents by the authorities, which are implemented, inter alia. by abolishing the verification requirement for certain official documents issued in one Member State of the European Union which may be presented in another Member State of the European Union. On the other hand, the contested law sets out the documents to which the provisions of the said Regulation apply by creating a catalogue with the names of those documents in force in the Polish law. And that's the main, only purpose of this bill. These documents are a birth certificate, a death certificate, concerning the living, name, surname, marriage, divorce, separation, annulment of marriage, place of residence or residence, citizenship, non-punishment notice. In addition, that law contains provisions on the form on which that information is received in the country concerned and to which it can be used already in other countries. In addition, that law describes the course of the submission of applications for it, the amount of fees, the competent authorities which may issue that document. It also states that the competent minister shall appoint a coordinator assigned to this task and that he shall in turn continue to regulate these activities. The bill was adopted by the committee without amendments, unanimously, 7 senators were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. And just to be brief, there was no discussion in this regard, there was no doubt, so I move to the High Senate to adopt this law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Paweł Majewski. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: No.]] No. Are there any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. In that case, the discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Register of Population. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1141, and the report of the Commission In print No 1141 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The law, the title of which you mentioned, was also proceded at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 10 April this year. The bill under investigation is from the government's submission. It was adopted by the Sejm on 4 April 2019. There were 281 Members in favour of the vote, against.127, and 2 abstentions. The essence of this change is to give the municipalities the competence to share the unit data from the PESEL register. The aim of the Act is to optimise the provision of data from public records to public entities and private entities. In the current legal state, the sharing of personal data takes place at the central level, from the national register of PESEL, and at the municipal level, where data from local registers of residents are made available. In the case of a municipality, this means that it can only share the individual data relating to the inhabitants of the municipality concerned. The present law grants only municipalities the right to share data from the PESEL register. It is intended to be a delocalized activity, i.e. a resident, let's say the municipality of A can quietly ask in another municipality, regardless of the place of residence, only if there is a further procedure, then in the same municipality it must repeat the additions. It's supposed to be, like I said, a remote operation. From the date of entry into force of the Act, therefore, only competent for the sharing of individual data from the PESEL register will be the authorities of the municipalities, only and exclusively and not, as has been the case so far, also the Ministry. As far as this bill is concerned, four senators voted in favour, three abstentions, no one opposed. But there was a discussion, mostly from Senator Flork, and it was the right point, and it was the right thing to say, fear. After the Minister's reply, the members of the Senate committee abstained. But there are some concerns here that are related to the fact that it goes to the municipalities. This law shall enter into force after a period of 30 days. Well, maybe it'll be a short time. There were also concerns about the issue of financing. It will be run by municipalities. Will they get the money for this, or will it be commissioned? What's it gonna look like? These questions were addressed to the Minister. There were also questions related to the transition of these tasks to the municipality, whether the municipalities are already ready to issue these decisions, to issue these documents. That is because, for example, as the Minister stated in the Sejm, in 2017, the requests of private entities were in the following number. The municipalities were addressed and the municipalities responded to 170 000 applications. The CPD, the Center for the Personalization of Documents in the Ministry, released 98,000, almost 99,000 information here. The proposals from public bodies made available by local authorities were over 1 million. And the CPD, the Center for the Personalization of Documents, has released nearly 1.5 million of these data. In a summary for 2017, it appears that these documents, as far as municipalities and the Ministry are concerned, were almost 2 million 800. And that's why there's some concern that, let's just say, at the beginning of the commune, they'll be able to deal with it. But, as I say, on the part of the Minister, there was a statement which, well, at least partially resolved the doubts of those who abstained. In conclusion, I ask the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Well, thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister, do you want a minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: No.]] Are there any questions for the Minister? They're here. Then you're welcome, Minister, to the podium. And Senator Florek will ask you a question in a moment. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the question is, did the government come forward... Does the government have the opinion of the General Data Protection Officer on this government law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u7	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[And if so, what was the opinion. Thank you.]] Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u8	The General Data Protection Officer, today the Office for Personal Data Protection, took part in consultations on this law. As you know, sir, because you were at the committee meeting, there is an opinion. [[Louder please.]] Excuse me. There's an opinion. Personal Data Protection Office... You can get to know her. I don't have that opinion right now. As far as all the reservations that you have with the senators or stakeholders involved in the consultation are concerned, I am ready to respond to them at the moment. [[What's the opinion?]] I don't have that opinion right now. She was presented... [[But verbally.]] ...at the committee meeting. [[Just put it orally, in two sentences.]] I don't have that opinion right now, and I can't honestly quote it. If you have any doubts about this opinion, please quote specific arguments, I will answer them as I did at the committee meeting in which you participated. [[I'm sorry to ask. Well, you're the minister. I'm asking you if there was an opinion on the government project.]] Yeah, she was. [[And I just want to know if it was positive or negative. Maybe you can answer that.]] I can't tell. [[Well, how do you...]] I don't remember, Mr. Senator, at this point, as to whether or not it is stated there that it is negative or positive. I don't remember that opinion literally. If you have any charges against the senator that are raised in this letter, and you've seen This handwriting, please quote it, I will of course refer to it. I can't remember the literal writing of that opinion right now. I don't have it with me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u9	Thank you. [[I'm gonna ask you one more time...]] But wait a minute, Mr. Senator, come on, let's get... I didn't give you the floor. We ask questions, we don't talk. Excuse me, sir. You're gonna ask a question in a minute. Right now, Mr. Senator Czerwinski is asking questions and then Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will this short period of vacathio legis be sufficient for the municipalities to prepare themselves for this, but it has happened, let's call it, the preparation of the central register itself? I suppose on the part of the municipalities there will be a need to implement some IT changes. If not, then... Please reassure me that we'll be there in 30 days.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course we'll make it. We have extended the vacathio legis from 14 to 30 days in the course of the Seym because of the concerns that have been formulated by your Members. I want to say yes. This law was consulted with local authorities at a meeting of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, from which it received a positive opinion in autumn 2018, i.e. more than six months ago. So the local authorities felt prepared already then. And why did they feel prepared? In 2015, under the PO-PSL coalition, changes were made to the State Registers System and to an operation similar to that which we are currently carrying out with data from the PESEL register. Maybe I'll just briefly tell you what this process looks like today, just to highlight to the senators... i.e. dispel the fears that appear here. At the moment, citizens who have some legal interest, e.g. they have succession proceedings, they want to bring a trial to someone and they need information from a given citizen, they turn to the municipalities and they get data from the register of residents, and if the person no longer lives in that municipality, they are referred to the Central Authority, which is the Centre for Personalization of Documents, from which they receive similar data, which are in the register of PESEL. Because the same data range is in the population register and in the PESEL register. The only difference between these registers is this. The municipal office in Warsaw has only the data of the inhabitants of Warsaw, so if someone has taken it to Piaseczna, then the office in Warsaw cannot answer and must redirect it to the Centre for Personalisation of Documents. This, of course, extends succession proceedings, extends court proceedings and generates additional costs for the state budget, because more than one entity is involved in this, etc. We have analysed the situation and we have considered that we can, firstly, simplify this process to the benefit of citizens, secondly, we can go towards optimising the work of the administration so that we do not involve too many officials to answer one question. As I say, we have analysed the situation and based on the changes in the system of state registers that have been carried out, as I say, for the previous coalition, we have decided to make it available, I would say, to move to municipalities. Today, municipal officials provide data from the System of State Registers from the Register of Personal Evidence. This has been the case since 2015 and there have been no major incidents over the last four years. Each entry to the System of State Registers shall be recorded. You can't just jump on this base and look for anything. For this purpose, there must be a legal interest and it must be noted for what purpose and to whom the data have been made available. It prevents abuse. And the matter of the computer preparation you asked the senator about. Officials today have access to the System of State Registers. Those officials who will make this data available today make data available from the register of residents and carry out the same procedure as for access to the register of PESEL, so that they have to verify the legal interest and so on. That's one thing. Secondly, IT preparation is because they have access to the System of State Registers. However, they have access to the PESEL register and make changes to it. Today we add another option in the PESEL register, which they already have access to. This is a sharing option. Why do we decide to do this? Because sharing from the Personal Evidence Register was successful. There are no violations related to citizens' privacy and there are no major reservations. The Ministry of Digitalization, which supervises the sharing of data from the System of State Registers, also welcomes this. We already have experience, local government officials under the supervision of the Ministry of Digitalization, under the supervision of voivodships carry out such operations, are prepared. The local governments have given a positive opinion and are not afraid of this solution. We, too, as a government, with experience from 4 years of age, recognize that the logic of rebuilding the System of State Registers, the reconstruction initiated as a previous coalition We're not afraid to admit it. It's the right logic. The time of access to information is reduced and there are no major incidents. So we went that way. Just as the data from the Register of Personal Evidence are made available by officials, so we want data from the PESEL register to be made available as well. With full responsibility, I can say that 30 days is enough here, because local governments have been aware of the fact that they will be sharing this data for the past six months. They already have IT tools, they have officials trained in the operation of the PESEL register, they have officials who provide data from the Register of Personal Evidence who have already analysed such cases for reasons of legal interest, etc., etc. I would like to address the concerns of the honourable senators here. This is a change that does not cause much controversy among those who have been dealing with these matters for years. And this really is a super-political thing. It is about citizens, it is about shortening procedures, making it easier for citizens to access the information they need. I think it really doesn't have political colors. Moreover, the ministry would not have decided to change if we had seen any risk of data leakage or if we had seen that officials were not trained and would not be able to cope with it. All the political forces in the local government campaign have argued to pass on tasks to local governments, because they are the element that we want to support. I think we're going in that spirit. This did not happen without thinking, and this is not a decision that could produce as dramatic a result as it is trying to suggest here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Thank you.]] Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u13	Thank you. Minister! I'm a member. Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. The documents we received contained the opinion of our Legislative Bureau, the Seym and Senate prints. There was no other opinion. That's why I asked... You spoke at the committee meeting on Wednesday about the opinion of GIODO. You said she was negative. Now I remind you of what you said. You said it was just an opinion, nothing more. Hence my question. This is a government project, so it requires consultation, it needs an opinion. And that's why I'm repeating the question. Was it GIODO's opinion, and if it was, what was it? I don't know her. Could you speak of her in two sentences? If not, I ask for a written reply on this opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u14	Of course, Mr. Senator. Since I do not want to be imprecise, you will receive a written reply on this opinion. This opinion was quoted by one of the senators at the committee meeting. I actually referred to her. The Personal Data Protection Office or the Chief Data Protection Officer shows its concerns about this process, but we referred to it, analyzed it and thought it was excessive. I don't want to say that it's excessive, but I haven't dealt with any serious cases regarding the access of officials to the State Register System. Officials have had this access for four years. I think the task of bodies such as UODO is to draw the attention of the government or administration to those areas which, according to the authority's competence, need to be taken into account and in which due care must be taken. After this opinion, we carried out such an analysis. But the Personal Data Protection Office isn't the Sejm, it's not the Senate, it's not the government. If that were the case, decisions in this particular area would only be taken as a result of the will of this office. We have analysed this, and we will be in those areas that indicate the office, placing special emphasis on maintaining due diligence. However, once again, four years of experience in accessing the System of State Registers by officials, the PESEL registry, data from the Register of Personal Evidence does not give rise to these concerns... Such concerns also arose before 2015, before making the System of State Registers available to officials, but they have not been confirmed. So we have no reason to believe that these fears will come true this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no further questions, so thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Piotr Flork. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Piotr Florek signed up for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you have talked about this access to data, but it is necessary to distinguish between access and sharing, making it available to public entities, including private entities. Ladies and gentlemen, the law amending the Civil Records Act, i.e. the one contained in this print No 1141, is only 5 articles on one page, but very important in terms of the protection of personal data. In the current legal state, the sharing of personal data takes place at the central level, i.e. the sharing from the nationwide PESEL register, and at the municipal level where local data is made available from the register of residents, as the Minister just said. According to the solution proposed by the government, the sole jurisdiction for the sharing of data from the PESEL register will be the municipality body. The application for data from the register can be submitted in any body of the municipality in Poland, so there will be so-called. the location, as Senator Pęk and Minister said, i.e. I will be able to submit in Poznan a proposal concerning Rzeszow, the data that I would like to collect there, because it will be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, so far PESEL data at central level has made available the Centre for the Personalisation of Documents at MSWiA and has been allocated so that more people can be employed there, as part of the MMSWiA it was not possible Applications for access should have been submitted there. The municipalities, of course, had access, as the Minister said, but only access to this record. At the Centre for the Personalisation of Documents, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, 52 people are employed and there are 15 people to handle this. And now after the shift... The first issue is a matter of budget, that's what we asked at the committee meeting. The budget of this unit is PLN 4 million. If this law enters into force, it will be 2.6 million this year, of course because we are already in the course of the financial year. And now it's gonna be commissioned. These 4 million from the budget, as the Minister said, will be handed over to the voivodeships and they will carry out these tasks, commissioning these tasks to the governments of the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, there are almost 2.5 thousand municipalities in Poland, exactly 2 000 477 municipalities. There are small communities that have 2,5 thousand inhabitants, and there are very large municipalities such as Kraków, Warsaw, Poznan, which have several hundred thousand of them. or even more than a million as in the case of Warsaw. Well, 30 days after the entry into force of this law, 2,000 477 employees will carry out these tasks. Well, there are so many municipalities. Of course, there may be more, because in these larger municipalities more people will be employed. Why is this change being made? Because this system has been inefficient so far. There were blockages because 52 people were unable to perform these tasks. These tasks were therefore transferred to the municipalities. About the budget... Ladies and gentlemen, if we divide this 4 million into 2,000 477 municipalities, we'll get the sum of PLN 1 thousand 615. If we divide it for 12 months, the average will be PLN 135 per month per municipality. It is known that in big cities for 135 zlotys it cannot be done. A data provision relates to applications submitted by public entities and private entities. As for public entities, we might be more calm because we know what these procedures look like, but the conclusions of private entities may vary. They're gonna need analysis. The question is whether, in such a small community, an employee who will be involved in this activity has been properly trained and prepared for these tasks. We find that the solution proposed by the government unfortunately increases the risk of data leakage from the PESEL register. Well, it creates the possibility that there will be unauthorized persons who will want to use it in some way, especially as these applications can be submitted in different municipalities as a result of this withdrawal. And the question is, what about GDPR, what about personal data protection? We didn't get an answer to that question. The question is, what about the pilot? Was there piloting? Was it checked? We don't know. All we know is that so far there has been access to the register in the municipalities, the municipalities have used it, and now they will receive additional tasks and will make these data available. There will no longer be a Center for Personalization of Documents, because it will be eliminated. And then there's the fear that we're well prepared. The Minister says yes, but this life will show. Let's see what happens. There are also concerns about costs. Here comes the amount of PLN 135 per month, and so far the Center for Personalization of Documents has not been able to carry out it for as much money as it had. She didn't hire any more employees, which means the money wasn't enough. Well, it should be assumed that it is such a pushing of this task on the municipalities with the idea that the municipalities will manage themselves. As far as funding is concerned, there is always not enough money to pass on such tasks. It is probably not yet clear in the municipalities what these additional tasks will be, which public and private entities will request to be made available. It's only in the future that all of this will turn out to be true, but our doubts are raised by the fact that this bill comes into force in a month's time. There are concerns about preparation, about finance, about whether this is a rescue from this inefficient system that has been in place so far, and whether it is not about making it more expensive for the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 11:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 35 to 11 minutes 02]] Resuming session, High Izbo. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] Welcome to the Magnificence of the Rector of the University. Adam Mickiewicz, Professor Andrzej Lesicki and his wife. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Hello, Rector of the University. Adam Mickiewicz, Prof. Bogumił Kaniewska and Dr. Aleksandra Bocheńska. Welcome. [[Applause]] High Izbo, I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 1118, and the report in print No 1118 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Magnificence Rector! I have the honour to present to the High Senate a resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the University of Poznań. I must admit, or mention, that the roots of the University of Greater Poland dates back to 1611, when by virtue of the privilege of King Sigmund III Vasa existing in Poznań the Jesuit College gained the rank of the University. It's a tradition, but it's very distant. The establishment of the modern university in 1919 did not coincide with Poland's regaining independence and the accession of Wielkopolska to Macierza, of course, as a result of the victorious Greater Poland Uprising. For decades of partitions, the Greater Poles have been waiting for free Poland, remembering the important role played by the community of goals, actions and building national solidarity, and above all the widely understood knowledge, in maintaining and maintaining threatened Polishness. So the appointment or establishment of a university under these conditions was obvious. The university's creators knew that the continuity, strength and future of an independent state depended on well-educated scientific, economic, cultural and official personnel capable of performing the most responsible functions in a rebuilding homeland. The University of Poznań has performed well in this role. It was his graduates who built the strength and well-being of the young Polish state, and then boastfully signed up on the pages of the occupation history to later join the reconstruction of the Polish state after the end of World War II. The list of people known and deserved for the University of Poznań, who over the past 100 years have influenced the fate of Poland and science, is long. You can't name them all. However, let me mention some of them, at least the ones that this university created at the beginning. Of course, I can't name all of them, but each one of them deserves a great deal of gratitude and respect. Among the people I would like to draw attention to, I will mention Prof. Heliodor Święcicki, the Great-Polanin of Śrem, the doctor of the gynecologist, the socialist, the founder and the first rector of the Piast Allergy. In turn Prof. Zdzisław Krygowski, a mathematician and cryptologist, is famous for the fact that three great people who deciphered the German Enigma came out from under his wings. Prof. Jan Chekanowski, anthropologist, creator of mathematical taxonomy. Finally, Professor Józef Kostrzewski, creator of the Polish school of archaeology and discoverer of Biskupin. I will also mention Prof. Stanisław Pawłowski, the creator of the Institute of Geography. Among these are many others that I could mention, and which are mentioned every day by acquaintances: Professor Stefan Stuligrosz, creator of Poznań Słowików; Prof. Stelmachowski, yesterday worshiped and commemorated; Prime Minister Hanna Suchocka, first Prime Minister after regaining our new existence in 1989, or finally Prof. Skubiszewski. Like I said, I can't name them all, but I also said we wanted to celebrate them tonight. Now let me read the text of the resolution. This resolution is preceded by the motto, a fragment of the speech which he gave at the opening of the University of Poznań, his first rector, Heliodor Święcicki. He said this: "You, young friends, hopes of our Homeland, are to be educated at the University, not only scientifically, but no less perfected for good citizens of the country. After all, you are to be apostles of our sacred cause later. King Władysław, the great-grandfather of the Jagiellonians, said so, and called the Krakow Academy his dearest daughter. And the rector says, "Let the whole society like Poznań University have a feeling." And now the text of the resolution:.7 May 1919, 308 years after the formal appointment of the Jesuit College in Poznań, took place the solemn inauguration of the first academic year of the newly established Piast Allergy, as the University of Poznań was originally called. The first department, which started teaching immediately after the inauguration, was a multi-directional department, founded on April 4, 1919, Philosophy Department. The First Rector As I have already mentioned, Prof. Heliodor Święcicki has been appointed. Professors from Cracow, Lviv, Vilnius and Warsaw supported the young Piastowska ally. The university, renamed the University of Poznań, developed perfectly throughout the interwar period, teaching students in 5 departments in the field of law and economics, medicine, humanities, mathematics and natural sciences, agriculture and forestry. He received a diploma here every tenth of a graduate from higher education in Poland. In 1939 the University of Poznań was closed by decision of the occupation authorities. Nevertheless, thanks to the determination and heroism of professors and academic youth, more than 2 000 students were educated under conspiracy conditions. Since November 1940, the university has continued its activities as a secret University of Western Lands (UZZ), the founder and first rector of which was Professor Ludwik Jaxa-Bykowski. UZZ mainly worked for the Poznań University of Science, and the structure grew from 2 to 6 departments in just 3 years. The outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising interrupted UZZ's activities. The University of Poznań resumed its activities after the end of the war in Poznań, accepting 4 thousand students. After a few years several faculty were separated from the university, from which separate universities were established: Medical Academy (today Medical University), Agricultural University (now University of Natural Sciences in Poznań) and Academy of Physical Education. Despite the weakening of its structure, the University of Poznań, since 1955 as the University of Poznań. Adam Mickiewicz remained the main university of Poznań and gradually gained importance in the Polish higher education system. New development perspectives opened up to the university in 1989 with the collapse of the previous political system. Thanks to the University. Adam Mickiewicz is great and indisputable. The Poznań Universe has shown that despite unfavorable conditions results can be achieved at the highest level. Today, Poznań University remains one of the leading universities in Poland and is recognizable in Europe and the world. The University of Science and Technology Adam Mickiewicz is 15 departments and 2 other primary units. Nearly 3,000 academic teachers educate nearly 40,000 young people in 82 fields and 250 specialties. The university also boasts an excellent base. Morasko campus is a modern teaching and learning facility created thanks to the financial and factual commitment of the state budget, the Wielkopolska voivodship and the city of Poznań. During its 100-year history, the university significantly influenced the shape of Polish science and culture. Among his professors, but also among the graduates, there were and to this day there are many people performing high state functions, many representatives of the world of science and culture. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please.]] The Senate of the Republic of Poland, adopting a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the University of Poland. Adam Mickiewicz expresses his respect for the generations of scientific, teaching and administrative staff and graduates of this university, who have a great contribution to the development of our Homeland. The adoption by the Senate of the Republic of Poland of this resolution will significantly bring the achievements of the Poznań University closer to the achievements of the university and will inspire many people and entire environments to laborious but fruitful scientific work and will be an opportunity to reflect on the role and importance of science in the modern world. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Here's the text of the resolution. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Robert Gawl to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Magnificence Rector! I would like to thank the senator, Prof. Jadwid Rotnicka, for the initiative of this resolution. After all, the university is not only the cradle of our higher education, but it is also very important for the whole Wielkopolska and the whole Republic... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please.]] ...which I'll try to introduce briefly. That's why today I'm using the text from the card, it's 8 pages, but it'll be read quickly. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It won't be fast...]] In order to fully understand the need to create a university in Poznań, it is necessary to go back to the period of partitions, because it was under Prussian rule that the most visible consequences of the occupation authorities in the destruction of the Polish element were seen in the context of the remaining parts of Poland. In the 19th century, each of the 13 Prussian provinces had its own university, with the exception of the Grand Duchy of Poznań and Western Prussia. A lot of middle school graduates couldn't afford to go to remote universities. Germanization policy was based on directing training in German centres and hindering access... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator... ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I'd like your attention, please. There you go... silence, please.]] ...and hindering Poles' access to legal, medical and teaching professions. If there were financial opportunities, Poles in Wielkopolska went mainly to Berlin University and Wrocław University, especially since 1856 there was already a railway connection with Wrocław. The need to create a university, as Prof. Lech Trzeciakowski wrote, was the need to unite the intellectual forces of the Polish society living in captivity. In 1841 Titus hr. In the next application for the establishment of the university, Dzianyński says this: Instead of calling out, as the Romans used to call their Caesars for bread and games, we will call more noblely the University! University! Archbishop Leon Przyłuski, August Cieszykowski, Karol Libelt, even the Germans favoring Poles, like the mayor of Poznań Eugen Neumann. All these efforts and conclusions are torpedoed, because the killers fear that the university can become a centre of prussian presbytery. Poles don't stop trying. In 1870, thanks to August Cieszkowski's initiative, an agricultural school was opened in Żabików, which gained the status of a university. One of the builders of modern society based on organic work, Karol Marcinkowski, in his programme of activities, is now giving an overarching role. The Scientific Aid Society is starting to work, and in Poznań, the discussion is ongoing about the need to consolidate the environment of Polish intelligentsia. In 1857, on the initiative of Kazimierz Szulc, the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences was formed, which brought together elites to believe that science needed to be practiced and popularized. One of its presidents was the later rector of the university Prof. Heliodor Święcicki. Hopes for setting up their own university appeared only after the defeat of Germany in World War I. In Poznań a special commission was established for the establishment of a university with Prof. Heliodor Święcicki, Józef Kostrzewski, doc. I was Michael Sobeski and Fr. Stanisław Dołęga-Kozierowski. Regardless of this, a group of national youth gathered, which formed the Union of Poles Academics. From it came the student Zygmunt Zalewski, whose request for the creation of the Polish university was adopted by the District Sejm, which met in Poznań on 3 and 5 December 1918. This was commissioned to execute the chief police station of the People's Council, which, after the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising, took real power over the former Prussian province. They started taking over the facilities for the university. Scientists from Krakow, Lviv, Warsaw, as well as Poles from Germany, Russia, Switzerland, France and the USA came forward. In the first years, departments were established: legal, economic, medical, philosophical and agricultural-forestry. The Imperial Castle was named Collegium Maius, and the Royal Academy building was named Collegium Minus. The university has taken over the Royal Library. The school year in 1919 started in May. There was a shortage of teachers who were downloaded mainly from Małopolska. On 7 May in the Poznań Cathedral, the Mass began under the leadership of Archbishop Edmund Dalbor, who inaugurates the establishment of the university. Then the solemn march went to the castle, Collegium Maius. There Adam Poszwiński opened the university on behalf of the Police Department of the People's Council, calling it the Piast Allergy. He said this: "We wish that not only brave professionals would come out of the school here, but citizens with a heart and a national spirit, citizens with the highest understanding of civic service, who would view their profession as a service to the nation. When the seat of the Ministry of the former Prussian Quarter was located in the castle, Collegium Maius was moved to the former building of the Cologne Commission. According to Antoni Czubiński, 57 professors of the University of Poznań were from Krakow. In second place were scholars from the University of Jan Kazimierz from Lviv. It should be emphasized that in Poznań the first institutes of archaeology, ethnology and sociology were created in Poland, where they worked a world-wide format of scholars, such as sociologist Florian Znaniecki, archaeologist Józef Kostrzewski, geographer Stanisław Nowakowski or economist Edward Taylor, whose unfinished doctorate in September 1939 left Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, famous courier from London. Work on the integration of Western lands with other areas of the reborn Republic was sought. It was necessary to correct false claims of foreign propaganda about the sources of Polish culture and statehood. Prim was led by archaeologists and historians, Professor Kostrzewski and Professor Kazimierz Tymieniecki. In 1932 5,000 320 students studied at the University of Poznań, of which 94% were Poles, and of the minority the most numerous groups were Germany, Ukrainians and Jews. The latter studied mainly medicine, pharmacy and law. National organizations tried to limit recruitment by demanding the numerus nullus rule, or at least numers claususus, as it was. in the United States, which few Poles know about today. In the face of the resistance of the university authorities, these demands but not fulfilled. Although Poznań was then very saturated with national ideology, the university maintained autonomy and had its own opinion. During the German occupation, according to the policy of the authorities, according to which Poles were to be transformed into eternal workers of unskilled and slaves, the university was closed and its assets were acquired in 1941. Poznan Reich University. In the Collegium Medicum, German soldiers made a great desolation. The microscopes were thrown out the windows, and the precision apparatus was exported. The same was true in the Collegium Chemicum. Invaluable archaeological monuments were destroyed at the Institute of Prahistoria. However, personal losses were the most severe. During World War II 117 scientists and administrative staff of the Poznań University died at the hands of the occupiers. The surviving Polish intelligence was driven mainly to the General Government so that it would not inhibit the Germanization of Warta's country. Despite such drastic methods of terrorism against universities, there has been a great social mobilization. Secret teaching started at all levels of school. The idea of setting up an underground university was born, which was founded in Warsaw in 1940. In total, there were 296 people attending the class. In March 1945 the rector, who was elected before the outbreak of the war, came to Poznań. However, it could not have taken up this function earlier. He has made a huge contribution to the start-up of the university. Unfortunately, he was quickly attacked by the authorities because of his national views. He was an undisputed authority. He was the one who was able to calm down young people demonstrating under the voivodship office against limiting the third-May manifestation in Krakow. Despite his great respect for the students and the scientific community, he had to resign from office. On December 24, 1955, the university was named Adam Mickiewicz. They were offered by the Dean of the Philosopher's-Historical Department, Professor Janusz Pajewski. Professor Pajewski recalls this: "A lot of supporters had the old idea of Władysław Seyda to call the University of Poznań Piastowska. Krakow has the Jagiellons, we'll have the Piasts. However, a prominent archaeologist, Prof. Józef Kostrzewski, who argued that Piast, if he existed at all, was certainly illiterate, so the name should not be taken from the Piasts, especially for the university. We know today that Professor Kostrzewski had his favorite, he was going to be Heliodor Święcicki, and he actually looked very prehistoricly at the history of the Piasts, and we also know very well that the Piasts were educated, such as Mieszko II, they had different languages, and this dynasty created the foundations of the Polish state and it is a pity that this university is not called that. Proposals were made concerning Marcin Kasprzak and Julian Marchlewski, so Mickiewicz's name turned out to be the best solution to avoid such a patron as the University of Wrocław had at the time. Which is? [[Voice from the room: Bieruta.]] Yeah, them. Bolesław Bierut. Good. The link with Adam Mickiewicz's name is clearly evidenced by the monument placed a few years later, which looks at the building of the Collegium Minus. In the 1960's, the idea of expanding the university outside the city center appeared, first on the Marcelin farm, but this project proved unrealistic, and in 1973 the city granted 300 ha to the university in Morask. It was possible to obtain this land thanks to the decision of the then rector Benon Miśkiewicz, who carried out earlier ideas of the rectors Gerard Labuda and Czesław Łuczak, which appeared already in the 1960s. The political changes of 1980 were symbolically affected by the University. Adam Mickiewicz. On October 1, Mianowice was restored to work at the Institute of Polish Philology Dr Stanisław Barańczak, a member of... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but it's been ten minutes. I've got to...]] But if you gave me the other five...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u21	But I can't now, Senator. The rule is, there's 10 minutes for the first appearance. Thank you very much. [[Because I'm after Poznan University, I'm stepping down.]] [[Applause]] Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Would the senator like another five minutes? [[Yeah, I have to finish.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Magnificence, Mr. Rector and colleagues! I won't speak long, but as a graduate of the University of them. Adam Mickiewicz couldn't not speak here. And I want to say two things. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators of the resolution very warmly for the fact that its project appeared on an anniversary as important as the century of our university, and also for the fact that it has been agreed, which I think is important in today's turbulent political times. In a certain consensus. This is not common in Polish political life. It is good that this anniversary is also honored in this way, i.e. that there is a resolution agreed on the content. My gratitude to the initiators of this resolution is also due to the fact that for Wielkopolska, for Poznań and, I think, it is an important anniversary. We remember it in recent months whenever we pass Adam Mickiewicz's Square and see a counter that counts down how many days until this hundredth anniversary of the university's appointment. I'm glad we're not the only ones who see this counter, the people we know, the Great Poles, but that it's going to happen in some way here in this room. And that's the first part of thank you. And the second element is the element... I just want to say that I feel honored to be able to vote on this resolution. I am honored not only as a graduate of this university, the Historical Department, in 1996, but I feel this honor. also because both Prof. Rotnicka and Senator Gawel spoke about professors who came from different parts of Poland to create this university. This was also the case with my grandfather Janusz Libicki, who in the 1930s, as part of the second wave of new university employees came from the Jagiellonian University to take up the post of Deputy Professor at the Faculty of Law. Then he died in Katyn. But thanks to the fact that he came to Poznań then, both my father and we all, his grandchildren, were born in Poznań and are acquaintances. So, the more I feel honored and honored to be able to vote on this resolution at the end of today's sitting. I believe that this is a non-controversial resolution and that the vote is just another step of this happy event that we have succeeded in adopting its content in consensus. I believe that the completion of this will be that we will all vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Magnificence Rector! High Izbo! I would also like to say a few words about my university, but not only because I am a graduate from 1975, but above all because the story of my family, or actually my father, and also of me, as a successor, is more than 4/5 of the history of the university. My father began his studies in 1938 and passed one year of law. The war interrupted his studies. He studied in Tübingen from 1945 to 1947. I has a very original diploma from the University of Poznań, where it is individually printed, that it is after studies in Tybinga and at the University of Poznań, 1938 That's what happened back then. And these economics, because my father studied economics, were verified. I've got this diploma, I've got student ID. He was still studying. 'Cause that's what happened. Also sociology. So I was already going as a second-generation student. And I was very impressed, and so far I'm impressed that I'm a graduate of this university. It was my father who told me about Professor Znomerowski's high-end lectures. And his later. The student was already my professor, Professor Zygmunt Ziembiński, called Gandhim, the great theorist of law, logic. Indeed, great professors came out of this university, who largely shaped our legal system. So that I am glad that I can also participate in this symbolic way in this anniversary. This is a great opportunity to sum up, a great opportunity to be proud and a great commitment for the future. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u25	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Delightful guests! The whole Wielkopolska region was involved in creating a university in Poznań. On 11 November 1918 the first open meeting of the established university commission led by the president of the Poznań Society of Friends of the Sciences of Heliodor Święcicki was held, as Senator Gaweł mentioned, a doctor, later the first rector of the University of Poznań. On December 27th, the Greater Poland Uprising broke out. The fight was interrupted on 16 February 1919 by the signing of the truce in Trevira. But on 7 May 1918, when the western border of Poland was not yet established in Paris We remember that the peace treaty in Versailles was signed on 28 June 1919. The first inauguration of the academic year took place in the castle built for Emperor Wilhelm. We know what a difficult situation this was at the time, as already mentioned, the staff of the University of Cracow, the University of Lviv and many other universities. Today, after 100 years since those days, the University im. Adam Mickiewicz is proud not only of academic teachers, administrative staff, students and university graduates, but also of our entire region and Poland. The University connects our region, it is its intellectual center, and the modern Morasko campus is a world-class showcase of the university. I could expand on the Moravian campus, but for the time being, I'm not going to talk about it. This is actually a great card. The school also celebrates the Medical University, the Academy of Physical Education and the University of Natural Sciences. These universities come from the University of L.A. Adam Mickiewicz. 1 October 2018 in the auditorium of the University of Lublin Adam Mickiewicz held a joint inauguration of the academic year of all four universities. This is an important sign of cooperation and cooperation. The University of Science and Technology Adam Mickiewicz is also lucky to have great rectors. Starting with Heliodor Święcicki and ending with Bronisława Marciniaku, who was the rector in the year of celebration of the 90th century. We celebrate the 100th anniversary of his Magnificence here Prof. Andrzej Lesicki. I will conclude my speech with a sentiment that reminds me now and which I gave during the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the University's establishment. Adam Mickiewicz. I'm proud to give it to you, and I'm going to tell you something that some of us envy. At that time I said words which in Poznań are widely known. For years it has been known that the oldest university is Jagiellonian University, the largest University of Warsaw, and the best University of Warsaw. Adam Mickiewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u27	You have a voice, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Magnificence! All the distinguished guests! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the list of people that should be mentioned today in the context of the resolution on a wonderful university in Poznań is long. I'm gonna put more names on that list because I'd feel internal discomfort if I didn't bring them in. In addition to those who have already been mentioned here, undoubtedly wonderful, beautiful figures were those who, after World War II, were particularly brutal and insolently treated by the communist authorities. It is worth mentioning these people, because whether the university remembers them today is a good answer to a much more serious, deeper question concerning continuity, about appealing to this beautiful past university in the times of the Second Republic. One of these people has been replaced, and I'm very happy about it. This is Stefan Dąbrowski, the rector of the university, whom he reactivated with his forces and his surroundings after the Second World War, but very quickly, after about a year and a half, he had to give up, notabene saving to some extent the university, because his resignation was not voluntary, it was forced. And it was, ladies and gentlemen, the forced documents that I received as a historian working at the Institute of National Remembrance, on the one hand, the reports, and on the other hand the specific reports, i.e. by reports saying that this rector dares to support Catholic organizations, the Marian Sodalition operating at the University of Poznań. When it comes to figures that are also worth recalling, it is repressed, imprisoned during the period of the Polish People's Republic outstanding figure. It's mentioned, as I recall, by the senator. Rector of the University of Western Lands, Professor Ludwik Jaxa-Bykowski. Such people as Prof. Jax-Bykowski or Stefan Dąbrowski were no longer allowed to function in public space as well as well-deserved professors and authorities for younger scientists, for students. And the third figure that I would like to take care of you is a wonderful, outstanding, one can say, the founder of the family, which until today is in Poznan a family well known. This is one example of a person who came from outside to Poznań, who became one of the pillars of this university. This is Prof. Stanisław Vincenty Kasznica, who, as you know, will also have wonderful children. Among these children, the eldest son, also a graduate of this university, Stanisław Kasznica was the last commander of the National Armed Forces and was murdered by Communists in 1948. He was murdered with his friend, also a graduate of Adam Mickiewicz University, Lech Neyman, during the war by the author of the first underground position saying that independent Poland should reach for Odra and Nysa Lużycka after the war. It was that university that created these people, educated them and made them dare to have such views, to be Polish independenceists. Stanisław Vincenty Kasznica himself was not only a prominent politician, an outstanding scientist. It may be worth reminding us that in the years 1922-1928 he was also a senator on the list of the Christian-National Party. He was the rector of the university from 1929 to 1931, then the rector and many times the dean of one of the most important, largest and most wonderful departments of the university, namely the Faculty of Legal and Economics, one of the first departments, and he had many wonderful students. One of those students, the students, was a character that I once took care of. I am the author of this man's biography. It is Leszek the Prophet, a prominent Polish writer, during the war belonging to the National Armed Forces, the National Army, the Warsaw insurgent, imprisoned twice after the war, then in Poznań one of the main characters, next to Kazimiera Iłakowiczówna, a figure of the Polish Literature Association. And when the Solidarity was founded in 1980, there could finally be changes within the union and during the elections during the extraordinary convention of the Polish Literature Association president, as you probably remember, was Jan Józef Szczepański, journalist of the Common Tygodnik, and the secretary of the Polish Literature Association was Leszek the Prophet. Leszek the Prophet, who died suddenly in 1984, leaving his own child, Fiat 126p. He was traveling with gifts to help his friends and friends repressed. These are the silhouettes of characters that went through this university, and there were hundreds of them, thousands of them. It is worth honoring some of them in these short words. Today's students of Adam Mickiewicz University would very, very much like to go back to the past of their own university, and from those wonderful people they were inspired to serve Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u29	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Magnificence, Mr. Rector! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to briefly share my feelings and reflections very important. First of all, thanks to the senator for this resolution. I know the academic community of Poznań, mainly through the Poznań University of Technology, as a computer scientist by the Polish Academy of Sciences, the ICB and the Poznań Supercomputing and Networking Center. We know that the history of the Poznań University of Technology also begins in 1919, from the establishment of the State Higher School of Machine Construction, but we also know that the academic community includes all those who conduct academic and teaching activities at a higher level in Poznań. Many characters are listed. I, too, must say that I had this honor and opportunity to work closely with the rector of the university. Adam Mickiewicz, Mr. Prof. Stefan Jurga, who was the rector of two terms. We later remember him as Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education, and recently, with Magnificence Mr.Rector Bronisław Marciniak, at the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland and in many other places, also at the Main Council. Right now, we have a chance to meet with the current Rector, too, in different places. It should be noted that this Jubilee of the University. Adam Mickiewicz fits into the year of the century of independence of Poland, which, as we say, continues. The following events show what was happening at that time, this incredible, huge explosion covering all areas of life. Of course, this activity on Poznań was particularly great. We remember the Greater Poland Uprisings, and of course the University. I would like to stress that the fact that higher education and science were seen at the time, in 1919, should force us to have some reflection. We recently celebrated the CUL century, the AGH century. In such circumstances, it is always worth searching for some civilizational conclusions for today and tomorrow from those events. At that time, science was so important, so high a priority in these crucial, difficult times. Is it in a high position today, including in the social and mental dimension? An example Many misunderstandings are, for example, a recent conclusion, a request for the removal or suspension of math at the university. This brings us a great task not only of building, developing an academic environment, but also of a certain social message, of reaching out to society with information about our work, the role of universities, its relationship with the economy. Therefore, I thank you very much for this resolution and for these great efforts of subsequent generations of creators of the University im. Adam Mickiewicz Many of them were mentioned especially in this extremely difficult time of 1919. I was watching both senate prints, and I saw that there was a shortcut. We always say that these resolutions are too long, but maybe I will quote this passage, which is not in the final text of the resolution. He's important because he also refers to roots. These were the words: "The idea of the university was born by medieval Europe. It has become part of the history and development of the culture of Europe's peoples and societies. The university's rank as a omnipotence of knowledge and the forge of intellectual elites caused that efforts and resources were spared for the establishment of further universities of university status. It's worth thinking about, seeing their depth. I wish the University them. Adam Mickiewicz and the whole academic community of Poznań as best as possible. At the hands of the Rector's Magnificence, I wish you a lot of good and further success in this beautiful mission that has been undertaken for generations to come. I wish you a lot of good. Let it happen. God bless you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u31	Thank you, Senator. Senator Gawel has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u32	Mr. Marshal, allow me to finish my statement, which I interrupted in 1980. It was also such a symbolic moment when Dr Stanisław Barańczak was restored to work, who was relegated from the university in 1977. I studied in the second half of the eighties. During this period, this social rebellion was already weaker, but at our university many professors tried to teach students not only what was substantively related to the department, but also civic attitudes, no doubt patriotic. Among them was my promoter, Professor Brygid Kürbis, a great scholar of medieval literature. At her seminars, students not only dealt with the subject but also always discussed the political situation vividly. The culmination of these activities was 1990, when a university civic committee was set up, headed by Prof. Alicja Karłowska-Kamzowa. In 1990 the Rector Jerzy Federowski was also appointed, who started a new chapter in the history of the University. Adam Mickiewicz. Today it is a powerful, developed university with a great campus in Morask, with buildings in the old part of Poznań, with a huge number of students. And actually, at the end, I would like to make my wishes, but let these wishes also refer to modern times, to contemporary situations, to university freedom. Therefore, I would like to mention here Prof. Janusz Ziółkowski's statement, which fell in Poznań at the inauguration of the 1981 academic year. He said very important words, which also concern contemporary Poland and universities in contemporary Poland. I'll quote one sentence, which is probably the most relevant: the university's autonomy... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Already? I just want to quote this one sentence, gentlemen and ladies: university autonomy means fidelity to one le only to the imperative, i.e. to seek the truth, so it is the autonomy of scientific inquiry, freedom from non-scientific pressures. So I wish the academy to continue developing. Vivat Academia, semper sint in flora! Keep it blooming! Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u33	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Rector! Colleagues! I'm short. I had the privilege of starting this point, and I would also like to end it. I don't think it's gonna be a bad thing, Mr. Marshal, if, on behalf of all of us here in the courtroom, I wish you well at the hands of the rector for the entire university community not only of our university. Adam Mickiewicz, but also all those who grew up in this university. You are, Mr. Rector, perhaps the thirty-first Rector after the reactivation of the university in our homeland. There's a place in the rector's office for a portrait of the rector, because that's tradition. Ad multos annos, Mr. Rector, for the whole community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. I inform you that Senator Antoni Szymanski has made his speech on the record. I'm declaring a three-minute break. We're about to vote. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 57 to 12 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. We have a vote ahead of us. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I would like to inform you that 66 senators voted, 65 votes against, one abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. The results of the vote have been given and are legally important. The resolution has been adopted. I now ask you to approach the president's table of the rector of the university. Adam Mickiewicz, Professor Andrzej Lesicki. [[The Vice-Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As the Honorable Rector of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań would like to thank you very much. The resolution which was adopted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I regard as a great honor and honour of our university. In the speeches of Senator Rotnicka and Senator Gawł, the circumstances of the establishment of a modern university in Poznań were recalled. It was thanks to these circumstances that the first rector of this university could talk about the fulfillment of the dream of the students to have a university in Poznań. The names of professors, rectors in other senators' speeches clearly show that these professors, also my predecessors in the position of rector, my teachers, faithfully realized what Rector Święcicki said in his opening speech years ago. Our university conducts world-class research and students educates as best as possible. He is educated not only in science, but in education for good Polish citizens. We are faithful and faithful to this idea for years to come. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Rector. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. According to Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act of 10 May 2018 on the protection of personal data, the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data shall be appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. The Sejm called on this position of Mr Jan Nowak, the resolution of the Sejm on this matter is included in print No 1144. I would like to welcome to the Senate meeting the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, Mr Jan Nowak, appointed by the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you're in the way. I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on this matter, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions relating to the point under consideration, i.e. consent to the appointment of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Do any of you senators want to ask Mr. Jan Nowak or ask him to explain? [[Thank you.]] [[Thank you.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Senator... Sorry, Senator Rybicki was the first. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm quitting.]] I would like to ask the President of Jan Nowak whether he is or was a member of the Party of Law and Justice and the statutory authorities of the parties, e.g. the court of a colleague and, if it was, whether he had already resigned from membership of the party, and whether the party membership did not conflict with the requirement of independence which the candidate is placed on this important office, who is the guardian of the protection of personal data, also in the context of future cooperation with other organisations of the Member States of the European Union dealing with the protection of personal data. Well, the example of the KRS here is such a significant context... Aren't you afraid of this future cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u39	Now you're asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. [[I wanted to ask you the same question, so I quit, Mr. Marshal.]] Are there any more questions from the senators? If there isn't, then... [[One more thing.]] One more thing. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u40	In a moment, the Senate will be debating the Civil Records Act on... [[Voice from the Chamber: The debate has already been held.]] She was, yeah. The Senate has taken care of this bill. What is your attitude towards this law, which raises doubts as to the integrity of the electronics system, and what was your office's position on this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u41	I don't see any further reports. I'm asking the President to answer from the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u42	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I'm answering Senator Rybicki's question. I'm still part of the party. If the Senate consents to my appointment, of course, I will resign from the party immediately. The statutory requirement is as follows... [[What party?]] Please? [[Voice from the room: No PiS.]] [[What party?]] [[Because we have more than one.]] Party Law and Justice, yes. [[Voice from the room: Important party.]] Yes, the Party of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is clear: the President of the Office cannot be a member of the party. The President of the Office until 22 April is Mrs Edyta Bielak-Jomaa, then her term of office ends. I'll eventually be president of the office when I take my vows. I assure you, senators, that I will resign from the party after... [[At the right time.]] ...the Senate vote. I'd like to say... This question is broader because it concerns independence, which is extremely important in the context of the protection of personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been working at the Personal Data Protection Office since 2008. I worked with sleep at first. Michał Serzycki, General Data Protection Officer, then I worked with Wojciech Wiewiórowski, and now I work with the third head of this office, Dr. Edyta Bielak-Jomaa. Both Mr Wojciech Wiewiórowski and Mrs Edyta Bielak-Jomaa were chosen from the recommendation of the Civic Platform. The fact that I was a member of the PiS was no secret because I was a councilman at the same time. Of course, I'll also file a councilman's mandate, which is... I was also a councilman, so I was kind of a public figure. So it wasn't a secret. Ladies and gentlemen, for 11 years of my work in this office, no one was disturbed by my membership of the party. Why? Because in this office for these 11 years of my cooperation with three chiefs, close cooperation, because I was the director first of the inspector general's office, and now the president's office, so this cooperation was extremely close... Ladies and gentlemen, she has never touched politics in 11 years. I just want to be clear. To explain this, you have to reach to the beginning, deep down, Senator. What is this personal data protection about? We are talking about GDPR, we are talking about a general regulation on the protection of personal data. No, it is a general regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of personal data. If we approach this so that we are an institution that protects human rights, that we do not protect data... I'm sorry, we're protecting this data, but it's actually a very unfortunate term that it's data protection that we're protecting some data. No, ladies and gentlemen, we protect man, we protect human rights. The right to privacy is a fundamental human right. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about human rights, we cannot talk about politics. Personal data has no political colors, no colors, no political legitimacy. It's not possible, I'll tell you, in our office, any procedure, any political influence plays any role. Too many specialists make decisions, these administrative decisions, etc., etc., whether they ultimately impose what we have recently, penalties. There's too many people involved in this process, a team of people we don't know what they're thinking. When specialists come to work, we do not ask what the options are. We have recently received 100 people, because due to GDPR there has been an increase in the budget and we have increased the employment by 100 people. No one has been asked and cannot be asked what option he presents. Therefore, once again I say that according to the Act I will resign from the party membership, resign from the councillor's mandate, resign from the social council of the hospital, because I am also on such a social council, and I will comply, Ladies and Gentlemen, with legal requirements. But I can assure you that in an office like our office in which we really protect human rights, there can be no talk, Ladies and Gentlemen, that there will be some policy and influence. The independence of this office is its foundation, independence and impartiality. This independence is guaranteed by the law, our law guarantees this independence of the President. This is a 4-year term. I can't even imagine how any politics could be pursued, let's just say, in our office. As I said, 11 years I worked in it, with different options were my bosses, it didn't bother you at all, because we always left politics behind the door of this office. So much for the answer to that question. Oh, Senator Borusewicz's question is the same... Ladies and gentlemen, I am not specifically addressing this subject here, which has been discussed in this Chamber before, I am referring to the case concerning the Ministry of Home Affairs, because it is a huge, extremely complicated matter. I can say that this is not the only law that is closely linked to our office. The second such law, which is already adopted and which I believe will require some amendments, is the law implementing the police directive, which is also in some way... There is a police directive, but a law adapting may require further amendments in the future. And when it comes to this bill, of course it was the opinion of our office. She's been given an opinion. That's all I can say. [[But I just wanted to ask you about the substantive opinion. Was there support or wasn't there?]] Mr. Senator, this is very difficult for me right now. I'd have to have... Well, I'm sorry, it's not a problem, it's just that I'd have to have the materials. I'm not prepared for that. From memory, it's... Ladies and gentlemen, without the support of the text, we cannot talk about serious legal issues, since my statement can be taken very seriously. So... [[That's right.]] ...with all due respect... I, of course, do not shy away from the answer, but for technical reasons it cannot be given at the moment, because I don't even have materials.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u43	Do the senators have any further questions? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u44	Mr. Candidate for President, does he anticipate... by including this function, I'm sure you have a plan, including a personal plan. Are you expecting personal changes at the office? And are you familiar with the practice in political life that contradicts your claim that this office is not subjective? So you don't say "political" or "decision-making"? Are you therefore familiar with the practice that the opinion of one president with many specialists is only one opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u46	So I answer. As far as my personal plans are concerned, Senator, I'm not planning any personal changes. I mean, once I'm in office, I don't have... Of course, the plans are Someone's got to take over my office, so you know... But it's gonna be changes inside the office. I do not plan any layoffs on the first floor if I come to this office because, ladies and gentlemen, this office brings together incredibly educated lawyers at expert level. The president's problem is to keep such specialists in this office, which is a budget and has the budget they have, and the market offers the professionals much better... There's no way we're gonna fire anyone. I don't have plans like that. Of course life will show, because the only good job is just its good performance, its good purpose, its involvement in this work. As I said, no other factors have a bearing on this. And, like I said, I'm not currently planning any personal changes outside of internal shifts because I'm gonna leave the director's office. And this is a very important function, and someone will have to do it, but I am looking inside, inside, among those employed. I don't have any staff rotation planned. That's the first line. As to whether the president, even with a group of experts and directors, can pursue, let's say, a policy of strict sense... In my opinion, no, because the procedure is as follows. We are bound by the Code of Administrative Procedure. So if there's a complaint After all, we do not decide what action will be brought against us, but this action is already in motion. This procedure is handled by a group of specialists, a team. The procedure is carried out in a team. Following this procedure, it may be necessary to carry out checks. It's only the procedure that shows... At this point, monitoring is followed, then analysis of these control activities is followed. Then there is the analysis and consultation, and possibly the decision, which is the decision of the body, by the President. But there may also be a situation in which an entity so much infringes the law that it is necessary to impose a penalty... Well, right now, it's kind of loud, and you talk about it a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, imposing a penalty is not a simple act in our office. The GDPR says it has to be met 11 or - Depending on how important it is. 19 indications that punishment can be meted out. Now, how is this punishment tracked down in our office? The punishment is thus imposed. The President has set up a committee composed of the best professionals in our office and this committee is de facto involved in imposing penalties. Of course, the matrices, etc., have been developed before. I know how this is technically going, and I'm going to say this: on the level of the penalty and on whether or not she's even going to be imposed, the president of the office has... Well, he has a final opinion, he always has one, but he doesn't really participate in the punishment process. It would be very difficult to force people to act against their consciences. Now, the most important thing. Everything we do at the office has a legal basis. There's no action we'd do without a legal basis. At this point, any deviation from the standard would be equal to breaking the law. No one can make this happen. I've worked this way for 11 years, and I believe that's what I'm... I'll tell you more: I can't imagine this office working under other conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u47	Thank you. You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The protection of citizens' personal data requires expertise, knowledge, independence, but also a friendly environment for many institutions, including non-governmental organisations, which are involved in the protection of our freedoms on a daily basis. In the process of calling you to this very important office 2 very important foundations, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights and the Panoptykon Foundation, which also deals with the protection of personal data, expressed doubts about the appointment procedure and about the urgency. Nevertheless, will you offer cooperation to these foundations, which are very recognised in Poland and Europe, in order to protect our freedoms, rights and personal data, in order to seek the widest possible support and allies in the implementation of the difficult task of the office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u50	I met with the Panoptykon Foundation and the Helsinki Foundation at the meeting of the Sejm Committee during my hearing. Representatives of both the Helsinki Foundation and the Panoptykon Foundation participated in this meeting and asked questions. It seems to me that I have answered very clearly the questions asked by the Helsinki Foundation and I have answered very clearly the questions of the Panoptykon Foundation. Nevertheless, on their portals I later came across the opinion that I did not reply. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem here. The problem is that independent foundations, which I appreciated very much, at the moment when I was in this situation and under extreme fire, turned out to be political institutions with a purpose. Many of the statements on the portals, on the pages, were absolutely false and lying. Honestly, it was hard to find a real sentence there. However, after the committee meeting, I proposed the cooperation of President Szymielewicz. I also spoke to the Helsinki Foundation. I invited him to talk to me. I've invited you to an agreement. I can't imagine, as an office... that any personal animosity would be shadowed by such cooperation. This cooperation is mandatory. Why is it mandatory? Because our office is transparent. Everything we do here is within the law. Everything is documented and everything is transparent. We provide information in public information mode. Therefore, in practical terms, all our activities are important for the Panoptykon Foundation. We came to an agreement, we agreed that we would meet, that our cooperation would be properly established, because it would not be good if there were any animosities here. But not anymore. how yesterday my current President came back from Brussels and told me that there was a procedure in place for my choice to be illegal. Well, they questioned... I understand they filed a complaint with the European Commission for my choice. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the will, I am open to meetings, I always invite President Szymielewicz. But in this situation, I don't think she's on her side if she's complaining about it. I don't know what's gonna happen next. I promise that my door will always be open to President Szymielewicz and to the foundation, because regardless of personal animosity, I believe that the conversation should be held. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u51	Thank you very much. Your next question is Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Candidate, I'm sorry, but I'm not finding another form. You, of course... [[Sir.]] Sir, yes. You realize, of course, that our questions only serve the public good, don't you? So this is not a problem, but the public is concerned that a person so closely associated with a political party that exercises power is a candidate for this position. I'm gonna want to help you. 'Cause if I were. I was in your position, and I wouldn't say I'd resign from the political party. Because the bill doesn't allow... So it's clear and clear that you don't have to quit, because if you're elected, you're going to quit automatically. [[No, he has to.]] Okay, but I'm talking about some logic. But answer me two questions. One, what is it that you said a second ago that you were wrongly appointed? Just so we know. That Brussels... that's what you just said. And the second question is, has there been a similar situation in the history of this office? Because you said in the beginning that the recommendation of the previous coalition leaders was that a person was appointed for this function. But did it happen in the history of this function that it was performed by a person who was a member of the party and resigned? Is such knowledge available to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u53	Thank you very much. Please answer me. [[Established by the Sejm President of the Office for Personal Data Protection Jan Nowak: So above all, I...]] Although I'm impressed. 'Cause I've been watching meetings at my office. You've already answered that question. But you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u54	First of all, I would like to assure you that I take these questions very seriously and that I am fully aware and aware that the senator is asking them in the public interest. Absolutely, we all work here in the public interest. And now, as far as this question is concerned, were there previously party candidates, then, as I remember correctly, yes, there was one who previously belonged to the party, but resigned. Of course, he resigned from belonging to the party. That's what my memory tells me. I would like to say that the election of the President of this office always takes place in the Seym and in the Senate, it is necessarily a political choice, because the majority decide... [[Political.]] ...political. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it is. I would just like to say, with regard to all this earlier statement, that at least two previous heads of my office were in support of the political option against mine, I worked with them. They didn't mind me being part of the party. I worked with them for a total of eight years, over eight years. They didn't mind. Why? Because, as I suspect, they valued my work and knew that I And they're the same. I didn't put politics into my job. And I know they don't either. Because it's not possible, ladies and gentlemen, believe me, it's... [[They were with the PiS and won.]] [[No, no...]] Oh, no, it's not. [[I'm so sorry.]] As for the question of whether there are any grounds for complaining about this choice, it is probably necessary to ask the Foundation of Panoptykon and Mrs Szymielewicz. I don't see the basis for that. But, well, I repeat, I have no record of this being challenged yet. But I have information that came from Brussels that the Panoptykon Foundation has decided to challenge to the European Commission the process of my choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u55	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I thank Mr Jan Nowak for his explanations and answers to the senators' questions. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held in the voting block. So, are we taking a break now? How much? [[Voice from the room: Dinner.]] [[Five minutes.]] No, five minutes isn't. Half an hour? What are the recommendations of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen, we're not gonna... It's a half-hour break. Ladies and gentlemen, recess until 1 p.m. At 1 p.m., we vote. [[We won't be able to have dinner in time, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me? [[1:00 p.m. is very familiar.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, yeah, it's very familiar. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 30 to 13 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the election of the Supreme Court jury. Ladies and gentlemen! On 25 February 2019 the deadline for submitting candidates for Supreme Court jurors expired. The Senate at its 70th meeting on 21 March 2019 adopted a resolution stating that it had left without further delay those applications for candidates which did not meet the formal requirements or were lodged after the expiry of the deadline. The Senate Marshal forwarded the applications to the candidates submitted within the time limit and meeting the formal requirements to the Chief of Police for information on the candidates. The information received from the chief police officer about the candidates has been communicated to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission on 9 April this year. After hearing the information and on the basis of the interviews of the candidates, she prepared a list of candidates together with their opinions on compliance with the requirements set out in the Supreme Court Act. The list of candidates for the Supreme Court jury and their opinions are included in print No 1145. I would like to inform you that yesterday Mr Dariusz Szymanski's resignation from his candidacy as Supreme Court juror came into effect. Therefore, his name is not included in the voting card. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to speak and to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions on the candidates for the Supreme Court jury. The committee meeting took place on Tuesday 9 April 2019 and lasted almost 3 hours. At the meeting we had the pleasure of talking and listening to the candidates for the Supreme Court jury. Of the 26 candidates whose applications have been submitted within the deadline and meet the formal requirements, we recommend 21 candidates. We have a negative opinion on 5 candidates, including one who, as your marshal said, resigned in writing to your marshal on 9 April, i.e. Mr Dariusz Szymanski. Finally, after hearing the candidates, the committee decided to give a positive opinion on the following nominations: Katarzyna Monika Borkowska, Michał Jerzy Górski, Bogdan Mariana Gutowski, Jolanta Małgorzata Jarzębek, Radosław Tomasz Jeż, Agnieszka Ewa Kaczmarek, Łukasz Jan Kotyni, Stanisław Michał Lesenia, Anna Dorota Lichy, Bożeny Cecilia Makuch, Elżbieta Mazur, Mark Bronisław Popowicz, Joanna Rebisz-Wojtali, Barbara Monika Sakowski, Arkadiusz Janusz Sopata, Grzegorz Swaczyny, Kazimierz Tomaszk, Mark Józef Totleben, Mariusz Grzegorz Wilczyński, Magdalena Maria Wiszniewska and Jarosław Wołodkiewicz. In addition, I inform you that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has adversely assessed the candidacy of Jan Królikowski, Michał Jerzy Kuligowski, Grzegorz Raczyński, Waldemar Zbigniew Szczepaniak and Dariusz Szymański, who resigned. Thank you very much and I ask you to give a positive opinion on the nominations identified by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the senator of the rapporteur... During the committee's meeting, there must have been an analysis of the training of candidates for the Supreme Court jury. I would like to ask about the level of education, in particular how many people among candidates have a higher education in law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u59	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, the training of the candidates was varied. Many of the candidates, a large majority of the candidates had a higher education, not necessarily legal education, because this is not required. Let me remind you that the Supreme Court Act requires a candidate to have at least secondary education. Among the candidates were also economics doctors, people who work at universities, doctors, teachers. Of course, those with secondary education also showed up. [[Thank you...]] [[Mr. Marshal, the question in the second part was a specific number. How many candidates have legal education?]] We did not analyze this in terms of the number of people with legal education.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u61	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u62	Senator rapporteur, it seems that you have not reported this, which is why I recommend that the High House answer my question. During the committee's work, was the question of a possible conditional decision on the staff composition of the juror's chambers considered in the context of the pending proceedings before the Strasbourg Court in relation to questions for a preliminary ruling by the Supreme Court? What was the result?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u63	But that was a question for the Senator of the rapporteur... [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Rulewski has made a formal request for a break in the context of preliminary questions. In the committee's vote, this proposal was not accepted, but the senator was in favour of this proposal, and we continued the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. [[That's it, that's it, that's ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u65	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the vote on the election of the Supreme Court jury at the end of the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to be held on 8, 9 and 10 May 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. Ladies and gentlemen! This is our last meeting before Easter. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most important event in the history of the world. It is the victory of life over death and good over evil. Easter is an opportunity to meet your loved ones. They bring joy and hope. I wish you, all of you, very cordial wishes. I wish you a pleasant, peaceful, joyful, cheerful holiday. Happy Hallelujah. And I'll see you after Christmas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Before the session was adjourned by the Sejm, the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, Mr Jan Nowak, answered the senators' questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of consenting to the appointment of Jan Nowak as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 57 votes against, 17 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has agreed to appoint Mr Jan Nowak as President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. We return to the third item on the agenda: Act on one-off provision of money for pensioners in 2019. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment. A minority of committees are asking for an amendment to the law. It's a senate print No 1140 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on one-off provision of money for pensioners in 2019. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1121 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Financial Market Supervision and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law amending the law on road traffic and the law on criminal penalties. The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a common position on the matter. It is available in print No 1123 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u66	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission, after a vote in which 15 senators were in favour, 5 against, 1 abstention, requests the adoption of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u67	Thank you. Do Senator Piotr Florek, as the applicant or other Senator Rafał Ambrozik, want to speak yet? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 Senators voted, 84 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and the law on criminal penalties. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1143 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to clarify the rules on the cost of providing assistance to the Police or Border Guard in order to enable controls or inspections to be carried out. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 2 aims to clarify the provisions allowing the purchase of the same medicinal products at the public pharmacy or at the pharmacy, which can be bought in public stores and in specialised medical supplies stores. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] [[Voice from the room: Resolution taken.]] We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on the submission of certain authentic documents in the Member States of the European Union. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1142 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Register of Population. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1141 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 72 were in favour, 1 against, 10 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Register of Population. We return to the eleventh item on the agenda: the election of the Supreme Court jury. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on this matter. We proceed with the vote on the election of the Supreme Court jury. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter in a roll-call vote. The roll call vote shall take place using ballot cards signed with the name of the senator. For the roll-call vote, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Luke Mikołajczyk. In a moment's time, the appointed senators will hand out their names to the senators. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that yesterday Mr Dariusz Szymański's resignation from his candidacy as the Supreme Court juror came into effect. Therefore, his name has not been included in the voting card. The roll-call ballot must be signed clearly in the upper left corner of your name. Unsigned or signed card will be treated as invalid card. On the card next to each candidate's name you can place at least one A vote for a candidate shall be void if no After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up a roll-call vote. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots, and the senators to fill out the ballots. Did all senators receive voting cards? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Not all of them yet. I didn't get it. [[Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.]] That's right, now I do. Have all the senators received their cards yet? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators get the cards? Let me remind you of the need to put my name and name on the front page in the top left corner of my name. I ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik to read the names of the senators in turn. I ask your senators, after reading your names, to throw in the ballot box filled with ballots. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u68	Jan Filip Libicki, Anna Maria Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Jerzy Bielan, Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, Przemysław Jacek Błaszczyk, Alexander Tomasz Bobko, Ryszard Wiesław Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Stefan Borowski, Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Felix Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Kazimierz Gawel, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Józef Golba, Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, Thomas Paweł Grodzki, Maciej Tomasz Grubski, Jan Vincenty Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Kazimierz Mariusz Kleina, Bogdan Adam Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Viktor Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, Maciej Adam Łuczak, Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, Richard Bogdan Majer, Robert Adam Mamątow, Marek Eryk Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Tadeusz Mioduszewski, Andrzej Kazimierz Biesiołek, Krzysztof Stanisław Mroz, Grzegorz Bernard Napieralski, Jarosław Wojciech Obremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Michał Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piecha... [[How many breaks?]] [[Voice from the room: Not much.]] Leszek Marian Infantry, Alexander August Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michael Francis the Crowd, Krystian Karol Probie, Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Dariusz Rocki... [[Till 3:00.]] Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Kazimier Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, Czesław Wincenty Ryszka, Janina Zofia Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Krzysztof Marek Elephant, Waldemar Jan Sługocki, Andrzej Józef Stanisławek, Lydia Eve Staron, Grażyna Anna Štark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael Joseph the locksmith, Przemysław Kazimierz Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Richard Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Adam Wind, Jerzy Władysław Włosowicz, Andrzej Franciszek Wojtyła, Alicia Maria Zając, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Grażyna Zdrojewska, Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski, Jan Krzysztof Żaryn, Rafał Michał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u69	Have all the senators voted? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Thank you. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up a roll-call vote. I'm ordering a recess until 3:00. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 23 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u70	I'm reopening the session. We return to the eleventh item on the agenda: the election of the Supreme Court jury. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a roll-call vote. I now pronounce the results of the vote. Name voting minutes of 12 April 2019 on the selection of jurors of the Supreme Court. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Marek Pęk, who were appointed by the Senate Marshal to hold the Senate's ballot, state that in a roll-call vote on the election of the Supreme Court's jury, 74 cards were issued. Cards 58 were placed in the urn, including cards that didn't matter was 1. 57 votes were cast on the selection of Katarzyna Monika Borkowska, including 54 valid votes; 54 against and no abstentions. 57 votes were cast on the election of Michał Jerzy Górski, including 56 votes valid; 56 senators, no votes against and no abstentions were voted in favour. 57 votes were cast on the election of Bogdan Marian Gutowski, including 56 votes valid; 56 votes against and no abstentions were voted in favour. 57 votes were cast on the election of Jolanta Małgorzata Jarzębek, including 56 votes valid; 56 senators, no votes against and no abstentions were voted in favour. 57 votes in favour, 56 votes in favour, 56 votes against, and no abstentions were cast in favour of the election of Radosław Tomasz Jeż. 57 votes were cast on the selection of Agnieszka Ewa Kaczmarek, including 56 votes valid, 56 votes against, no votes against and no abstentions. On the election of Łukasz Jan Kotyni 57 votes were cast, including valid 56 votes; 55 Senators voted, no one voted against, 1 Senator abstained. 57 votes were cast on the election of Jan Królikowski, including 55 valid votes; 5 senators voted against, 50 senators voted against, no abstentions. 57 votes were cast on the election of Michał Jerzy Kuligowski, including 56 votes valid; 4 senators voted against 52 and no one abstained. 57 important 56 votes were cast on the election of Stanisław Michal Lesien; 55 senators voted, 1 senator voted against, no abstentions. 57 votes were cast on the selection of Anna Dorota Licha, including 56 votes valid; 56 senators, no votes against and no abstentions were voted in favour. 57 votes were cast on the election of Bożena Cecilia Makuch, including 55 valid votes; 55 against and no abstentions. 57 votes were cast on the election of Elizabeth Mazur, including 56 votes valid; 56 senators, no votes against and no abstentions were voted in favour. The election of Marek Bronisław Popowicz was subject to 57 votes, including 55 valid votes, 55 votes against, no votes against and no abstentions. On the selection of Grzegorz Raczyński 57 votes were cast, including valid.55. Three senators voted against 52 senators and no one abstained. 57 votes were cast on the election of Joanna Rebisz-Wojtali, including 56 votes valid; 56 votes against were voted against, and no abstentions. 57 votes were cast on the election of Barbara Monica Sakowskia, including 56 votes valid; 56 senators, no votes against and no abstentions were voted in favour. 57 votes were cast on the election of Arkadiusz Janusz Sopata, including 56 valid votes; 56 against and no abstentions. 57 votes in favour, 55 votes against, 55 votes against and no abstentions were cast on the election of Grzegorz Swaczyna. 57 votes were cast on the election of Waldemar Zbigniew Szczepaniak, including 55 votes valid; 3 senators voted against 52 abstentions. 57 votes were cast on the election of Kazimierz Tomaszek, including 56 valid votes; 56 senators voted, no votes against, no abstentions. On the election of Mark Joseph Totleben 57 votes were cast, including important 56 votes; 0 senators voted against, 0 senators voted against, 0 senators abstained. On the election of Mariusz Grzegorz Wilczyński 57 votes were cast, including 56 valid votes; 56 senators voted against 0. 57 votes were cast on the selection of Magdalena Maria Wiszniewska, including 56 valid votes; 56 senators voted against 0. 57 votes were cast on the election of Jarosław Wołodkiewicz, including 56 votes valid; 56 senators voted against 0. (Results of roll call voting) This protocol was concluded and signed. Warsaw, 12 April 2019 In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the Supreme Court jury. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the seventy-sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of you like to speak? [[Senator Tight.]] Senator Jerzy Wczyła. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Justice, making organisational changes, is aiming at the liquidation of the 4th Department of Labour of the Bartoszyce District Court. This decision will have a negative impact on the functioning of a community of about 100,000 inhabitants. Because I will remind you that the 4th Department of Labour of the Bartoszyce District Court covers a large part of the Bartoszycki district and the Lidzbar district. The liquidation of this department of work will cause the nearest department to be in a distance of about 70 km Olsztyn. In many towns of Bartoszycki and Lidzbarski, public communication with Olsztyn operates to a very limited extent, which will result in many people having to spend the whole day on their trip to this department. Some towns have no direct connection to Olsztyn at all. An additional problem is the cost of traveling to Olsztyn. This is a real problem, because these costs concern people who are very often fighting in court for their pay, which is the only source of living. It is also important that we are talking about one of the poorer regions of our country. Minister, please examine the information submitted and take a decision taking into account the above arguments. I am convinced that reflection on them will result in a decision to leave the 4th Department of Labour of the Bartoszyce District Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Declaration addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, Motorways in Poland are theoretically toll roads, and tolls are covered by motorcycles, cars and trucks, buses and non-normative vehicles. However, the toll collection system itself is very diverse and complicated depending on the manager of the motorway. Some sections of the A1, A2, A4 motorways were built by concessionaries and there is a manual toll collection system, and there are 2 toll collection systems on government motorways managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. VAT is added to the toll on concession motorways. The charging system in force in Poland is complex, inefficient and unfair. On the section of the A2 motorway between Łódź and Warsaw there is a dismantling of an unfinished toll collection point. The motorway will be straightened out and the journey will be free as yet. The waiver of charges between Łódź and Warsaw according to the information provided by Minister Mikołaj Wild at the meeting of the Senate Infrastructure Commission on 21 March 2019 is closely linked to the planned construction of the Central Communication Port. The port is to be opened in 2027. The new airport in Berlin, which was to start operating in 2011, has not been opened until today. The current deadline is October 2020. Duration of the initial investment process From the stage of drawing up maps for design purposes, through the design and obtaining of all permits and arrangements, including environmental, as well as land rights It usually lasts for many years. Only after obtaining a decision on the execution of the investment and the selection in the tender procedure of the contractor can the construction be started and, after completion of the contract, the collection be made. It can therefore be assumed in advance that the assumed date of putting into service of the Central Communication Port together with the accompanying infrastructure is completely unrealistic. In view of the above, it is easy to calculate how much damage the National Road Fund will incur after the Ministry has resigned from toll collection via the A2 motorway with the highest traffic intensity in Poland. On the other hand, we have Wielkopolska, pioneers in Poland, section of the A2 motorway from Konin to Września, built in the 1980s and rebuilt at the end of the 1990s, and episodes from Września to Poznań and from Poznań to New Tomyśl, built at the end of the 1990s and at the beginning of the 2000s by Autostrada Wielkopolska SA on the basis of a concession agreement. In this section, Highway Wielkopolska had no government guarantee and had the total investment cost and investment risk. Poland became a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004. Only after this date could the implementation of the motorway construction programme in Poland accelerate with significant support from EU funds. The A2 motorway through Wielkopolska is part of the Freedom Motorway. To a large extent, the most expensive section of the motorway in Poland is used by Wielkopolska. The most dangerous thing to do is to continue with these costs. By 2037. The fee for each of the three 50-kilometer sections is PLN 20. In some European countries, 60 zlotys can buy vignette and ride it for several months. Through such high tolls on this 150-kilometer section of the motorway, a significant part of the traffic, including the transit, heavy traffic, moved to an alternative national road No 92, thus creating additional road risks. These examples show how unfair the current charging system is. For the 100-km section of the motorway from Konin to Poznań you must pay 40 PLN in one direction This is expected to continue until 2037. No charge will be charged for the 100-kilometer section of the motorway from Łódź to Warsaw. When the target network of the main roads in Poland is already known, the Minister of Infrastructure should be expected to adopt a definitive, fair and uniform charging system for all road users, taking into account the roads managed by concessionaires. Today trucks weighing more than 3.5 t are charged electronically via the viaTOLL system. That's what these bouncers do on the route. They also pay for express roads and some important stretches of roads. In the case of motorways on toll sections, toll collection for trucks and passenger cars varies. In addition to manual collection, there are various electronic collection systems, requiring the installation of special devices depending on whether the highway manager is the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways, or one of the concessionaries. I therefore ask the Minister with the following questions. First: when will the construction of main motorways in Poland be completed and will the expressways remain free of charge for passenger cars? Question two: what changes in the toll collection system are planned by the Ministry and when? Three. What about the toll fare? Four. Will frequent congestion in the summer and pre-Christmas period at toll collection points disappear and if so, how? The fifth question: does the Ministry hold discussions with concession holders on the harmonisation of the charging system and if so, what are the results of these discussions? Sixth: is the Minister of Infrastructure considering the possibility of introducing vignette fees for driving the main roads in Poland? Question seven, last question: does the Minister of Infrastructure have a plan to organise the toll collection system and introduce a fair amount of it? Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u74	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement today is addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Teresa Czerwinska. Dear Minister, The Government of Law and Justice is implementing an ambitious and expected social programme. These measures require considerable financial resources. It is clear that only a stable increase in state revenues can guarantee the implementation of these projects. And here, unfortunately, is the question of excise duty, the second in terms of tax revenue. From excise duty to the state's cash register in 2017 about 750 million PLN was less than expected. This is the only tax that brought less than 1.1% to the budget in 2017. During this time e.g. VAT receipts turned out to be 10% bigger than assumptions, and with PIT 3.3%. In 2018, the revenues were higher than the assumptions, but with GDP growth of 5.1% Only PLN 1 billion more is planned than compared to 2017 by 2016. The question is: why the excise tax revenue was planned by PLN 5 billion more from 2016 for 2017 and from 2017 for 2018. Only about PLN 1 billion? What resulted from an increase of 5 billion zlotys, which was mostly made? What's the difference? And how does this increase the consumption of excise goods, the value of their taxable turnover and GDP growth in 2017 and 2018? In general, excise duty is rising below GDP and inadequately to increase the value of turnover and consumption of goods taxed with this tax, which means actual regression in the collection of this tax. Such relatively weak results in the case of excise duties appear to be disproportionate to the effort made by the fiscal in prosecuting excise duties. Over the last 2 years, the so-called "in-house" has been implemented. The fuel package, the energy package, has reformed the fiscal services, establishing the National Tax Administration. However, experts estimate that the continuing gray tobacco marketing zone reaches 25% for fuels From 12% up to 19%, and alcohol is about 10%. Already in December 2016 at a conference at the University of Warsaw entitled: The excise tax on changes by Professor Witold Modzelewski indicated that the losses of the State Treasury in excise duty due to the activity of the grey zone are in the order of 14% 23%. Other experts confirm that this amount is in the order of PLN 9 and 16 billion per year. That's what the latest data says. A few days ago, on 9 April, at a scientific conference in Izbick near Opole, Professor Witold Modzelewski confirmed that excise goods consumption and value of trade in these goods are increasing, which does not translate into an adequate increase in the revenue from this tax. This is a constant trend since 2008. The conference also referred to a weak result of excise revenue for January and February 2019. In relation to the assumptions of PLN 73 billion for the whole year January and February gave PLN 10 billion, and according to the speakers this cannot be explained by the reduction of excise duty for energy. Dear Minister, Is this tax well managed, or are there more opportunities to raise additional revenue from this tax? Wasn't there a margin for scrutiny in the course of the reform of the KAS? The excise duty returned to the tax offices after 14 years, but in a completely different legal environment. Such excise duties are simply not known by the tax authorities. It is a completely different tax than before Poland entered the European Union. It is known that the customs and treasury offices have since 1 March 2017 introduced little control of this tax. This is clear from the reports sent to the Ministry of Finance within the framework of the Recommendation. Recently, NIK's audit showed that due to the complete marginalisation of Zephyr 2 and the failure to prepare the system for smooth entry into the KAS, there was a delay in centralised income, including excise duties. The audit concerned a centralised creditor body located in the Third Tax Office in Szczecin. It is therefore worth looking at how the KAS has been prepared to operate the Zephyr 2. The first training for new users from tax offices, customs offices and tax administrations started only in the first quarter of 2019. The press also informs about the regression in excise controls. Take, for example. the findings of journalists of the newspaper Legal Journal presented in the article "The excise duty is not as successful as in VAT. In the fight against the grey zone in relation to energy products, the fuel business environment welcomes the legislation introduced, such as the energy, transport or fuel package, but there is still much to be done. The industry advocates linking the results of the actions of the KAS and the Energy Regulatory Office with additional financial support for both institutions and controllers. You talk about it, for example. in the report of the Polish Oil Industry and Trade Organisation of March 2018 Dear Minister, most of the fuel, according to the report, is entering Poland from Russia, which should result in an increased number of laboratory tests and tests carried out in KAS units serving the border with Russia. Is that so? Do we know what is coming in and what quality it is? Is the correct rate of excise duty applied? How to explain the increase in fuel consumption... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'm finishing my thought, Mrs. Marshal. ...by 18% in a situation where the increase in excise duty is only 5.3% ? How is fuel infrastructure controlled? As the example of the use by criminal groups of cigarette-making machines in decommissioned plants shows, in the case of fuels, infrastructure not used by legally and uncontrolled entities by the relevant services may become a tool for illegal activities. Finally, is there a precise selection and assessment of the risk of excise duty collection? Is there coordination in the use of the instruments in place, e.g. excise goods movements systems EMCS and EMCS PL 2, Celina and Zephyr 2, which should be used in the construction of analytical models as a JPK model? Has this been done and used in the field of excise duty? Does it work? Respectfully Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u76	Thank you very much. And Senator Antoni Szymanski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During Easter, the senators are particularly kind to each other, wishing each other well. They also remember about the people in their electoral districts. It's very common. They also send their wishes to the institution. So, on behalf of a group of senators, I would like to wish our countrymen wishes. In our Polish culture the celebration of the Lord's Resurrection takes a special place. It is preceded by a 40-day period of reflection during which we are encouraged to focus, pray and work on ourselves. In the Great Post, we have a chance to better understand ourselves and our own limitations, while at the same time putting priorities in order. Then comes Easter, the time to celebrate hope. In today's world, hope has become too rare a commodity. Many of the current things fill us with sadness, overwhelmingness, discouragement of optimism. We sometimes wonder if there's still a point in getting involved in something more than our own personal well-being. However, real prosperity cannot be achieved in isolation from others. As individuals, we will only be fulfilled if we take care of the welfare of our families, the development of local communities, and the building of a culture of kindness throughout the country. How can we draw energy to engage and reason for a positive attitude? That's what Easter is for. The Great Week and the Feast of Resurrection that is crowning it brings hope back. This hope provides us with faith that we will strengthen our desire to build a community of mutual respect and service to the common good. That is the hope we wish all our fellow countrymen. On the occasion of the Resurrection Day, we wish all Polish families a wish. May you never be defeated by doubting the meaning of the mutual love of unifying spouses and full consecration of your children. Similar wishes are addressed to the community in workplaces and entrepreneurs. Let mutual respect and a desire for common prosperity be pursued by improving the quality of professional engagement and striving to build a common good. We also send our heartfelt wishes to local communities. Appreciation and cultivation demand all initiatives of citizens and local authorities, which are based on reconciliation, dialogue and cooperation, building bridges over divisions. If our motivation is the reborn hope of a future together, these efforts will certainly have a positive effect. The Feast of the Resurrection reminds us that there are no conflicts that cannot be overcome, nor problems that cannot be solved by mutual trust and goodwill. Merry Christmas to Anna Maria Anders, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Rafał Śluszarz, Jarosław Oremski, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Andrzej Kamiński, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Jerzy Czerwiński and Antoni Szymański. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-senat-76-2.u78	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an error in the record of the roll-call vote on the election of the Supreme Court jury. It was corrected in front of the senators of the secretaries. I'll read the correct result. On the election of Mr Totleben, 57 votes were cast, including 56 valid votes; 56 senators voted, no votes against and no abstentions. (Results of roll call voting) Thank you very much. There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventy-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 70th sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 27]]
