ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u1	I open the 70th third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Mark Pęk as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the sitting is already underway. I ask you to remain calm. On 7 February 2019, Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers, passed away from 1991 to 1992, Member of the Sejm I, III and IV of the term of office, Solidarity activist, opposition defender. Please honor the memory of the late Prime Minister with a minute's silence. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It will remain in our memory.]] Thank you very much. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 60th and 70th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. High Senate, I inform you that on 29 November 2018 the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on the situation of older people in Poland for 2017. The document is contained in print No 1037. On 7 December 2018, I sent information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission took note of the document and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 3 and point 4 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's report was submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose deleting point eight, i.e. information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2017, and its examination at its meeting in March. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the seventy-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that after the draft resolution on the commemoration of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski and after the preparation of the report on this issue, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on this resolution. Tomorrow, the Senate will begin its deliberations at 9:00 p.m. after considering the second reading of the draft resolution on the court case. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote will take place immediately after consideration. The Senate will then consider point seven, i.e. information on Poland's participation in the work of the European Union. Tomorrow at 12:00 p.m. a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition "Poland sculpted with eagles." I would like to inform you that all other votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We're planning on doing it around 3:00. We proceed with the review of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Gambling. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1076 and the report of the committee In print No 1076 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister, you and your staff! I have the honour to report to the High House on the Committee on Budget and Public Finance adopted by the Sejm on 17 January this year. Act amending the Act on Gambling. The amendment of the Act met with widespread acceptance and the committee asks the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution, i.e. adopted the bill without amendment. The Act amending the Act on Gambling aims to ensure that the expenditure of the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture is also devoted to the development of social tourism conducive to the physical activity of society. So far, the fund's expenditure has been spent on reconstruction, renovation, financing investments in sports facilities, developing sport among young people and people with disabilities, and on the tasks set out in the public health legislation on physical activity. The bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please be quiet and do not disturb the senator. It really bothers me. You're welcome, Senator.]] Contrary to appearances, it is a very important act, because it promotes the social and economic development of our homeland. I'm gonna say two words about this in a minute. The bill was a response to a petition addressed to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland by the Polish Tourist Association. He met in the Seym with great approval. The bill then entered the High House, the Senate. The Physical Culture Development Fund is a state-owned special-purpose fund, the responsibility of which is the Minister responsible for physical culture. The fund's revenue is 75%. the proceeds from the payments paid by gambling operators covered by the state monopoly. The High House, the Sejm believes it is time for these funds to be also allocated to the needs of people, I would say, socially excluded, people with disabilities, elderly people, young people and children from poorer families. This change enables citizens with lower incomes to participate in tourism. As experience shows, including Polish, but above all European... There's been a project in Spain for a long time. With us in Poland there is a project called "View Poland," a magnificent one that fits into these goals. It is about attracting more and more social groups, including the poorer ones, to tourism. I will not convince you because we know very well that tourism is an important branch of world economies, including the economy of Poland. How many jobs are there, how many... Most importantly, such an approach, i.e. the use for these purposes of these measures, the involvement of the public in this interest in Poland, will result, among others. walking away from the so-called: seasonal tourism, which covers only holiday, only colonies. It is a year-round action, a year-round movement within the framework of a great undertaking, which is tourism. For this reason, the committee unanimously adopted this law with great acceptance. On behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Welcome to the meeting of Minister Witold Bianca, Minister of Sport and Tourism. Welcome, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: No.]] No. Are there any questions for the Minister? There's a question. So, Minister, we ask you very much to approach the speaker. First question will be asked by Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This bill is indeed a good bill. It offers opportunities to finance various tourism-related projects, including from this fund, which has just been created through measures related to gambling. And this extension is actually beneficial. But I would like to ask the Minister how this will be done in practice to support tourism-related projects. Will PPTK organisations, which were the applicant or initiator of this law, or other NGOs that deal with tourism issues, apply as part of projects announced by the Ministry? Will it be possible to make use of these measures already this year? What is the catalogue of actions that can be financed or co-financed by this fund? Will it include e.g. youth hostels, school shelters and other such things that contribute to the spread of mass tourism, especially among young people?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u5	Thank you very much. [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: Thank you very much...]] Minister, wait a minute. Let's see if there's any more questions. If so, we'll group them up. There are questions. You're welcome, Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, a brief question: who will be able to benefit from these measures? Will only local governments or tourism organisations be able to benefit from this money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u7	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask you a question? [[Me.]] Senator Jan Rulewski. Three questions and then the Minister will answer. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u8	Minister, I would like to continue with the subject from my colleague, the predecessor. The question is: will the self-government be able to use these funds to support organisations that do not carry out commercial sports activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u9	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much for these questions, very important questions. As far as the possibility of using these funds is concerned, in response to this demand, we have also included tourism projects in our programme of funding from the state budget. Already this year, before this law is adopted, before it enters into force, we place social tourism as one of the priorities. This is a pot of approx. PLN 2.6 million to be divided into 3 priorities, among others. to renovate and delineate tourism routes, as well as to promote the accessibility of tourism for people with disabilities. So that we are already responding to these demands in our budget project. Organisations such as PTTK will be able, as has been the case so far, to apply for these measures. Renovation of youth hostels is also one of the priorities introduced by this new solution. It is really about adapting them to the requirements of people with disabilities, so that the owners of these shelters, regardless of what kind of shelters they are entities, they will be able to apply for a grant. This isn't just about local governments. As regards the Physical Culture Development Fund, whose main tasks are the construction and modernisation of sport infrastructure, not only local authorities can apply for these measures today. This applies e.g. It's also a foundation. A similar principle will be applied here, so such entities, such as PTTK, will, of course, also be able to apply for a grant. Besides, PTTK is already a beneficiary of our last year's programme, for example on the modernisation of tourism routes. So here there is no reason why such entities might be able to apply for funding under this project. Naturally, after the entry into force of the Act, we will have about 6 months to introduce a regulation that will be appropriate to the solution introduced by the Act, which will extend this catalogue to social tourism issues. De facto this programme I'm gonna say it colloquially. It will not start until next year, but already this year, under the state budget, under another programme, you will be able to apply for funding for social tourism-related tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u11	Thank you very much. [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: Thank you very much.]] Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask. You pointed out here that support would be possible, for example. to modernise facilities so that they can be made available and used by people with disabilities. Is this going to be a general option for modernization? I ask because some of these objects, especially in villages or small towns, have a very low standard. I say, for example. Youth shelters or school shelters. Will they also be able to apply for funds for such modernisation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u13	Yes, modernization, but with a particular emphasis on social tourism, to adapt the facility to the needs of people with disabilities. Moreover, in programmes to finance modernisation or construction of sport infrastructure for sports facilities that are particularly suited to people with disabilities, we will introduce a special score so that such proposals are given additional recognition by the department assessing such investments. So in this respect, we go very wide to adapt sports facilities to the needs of people with disabilities. And when it comes to social tourism, it'll be a similar rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u14	Thank you very much, Minister, because I don't see any more people... [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.]] ...willing to ask questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that Senator Robert Mamątow has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the second order of business: the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 1072, and the report of the Commission In print No 1072 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Senator Frost was just a moment ago. I don't know why he left. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 31 January this year. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration was involved in amending the Act on Foreigners and other laws. This law implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 in the Polish legal system. It lays down conditions and rules for the entry and residence of nationals of countries outside the European Union in the European Union in the field of studies, research, participation in European volunteering and youth exchange programmes. This law, as I said, implements this directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Unfortunately, we're a little behind schedule. It was a government project, which I stress to my colleagues on the Platform, who said that we always have parliamentary projects. This project was, of course, a government project. Our Legislative Office has offered 9 comments. Not all these comments resulted in a legislative proposal. Out of these 9 comments, the Committee adopted 5 proposals for amendments. In this opinion, these are the proposals for amendments 1, 3, 5, 8 and 9. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Foreigners' Office, of course, accepted these amendments. Some of these are complementary amendments, which clarify the substance. Senator Biesiołek took part in the debate on this project. He raised the question of the division of universities, which would be able to educate foreigners from outside the European Union. Some universities will have to get approval. The agreement will not have to be obtained by universities, both public and non-public, and all state schools, whether it's PWSZ, whether it's universities, or military schools, of course, universities, here we are talking about military universities. It is also run by religious unions. Non-public universities will have to obtain the approval of the Ministry of Interior and Administration for training outside the European Union by 1 October 2019. The senator raised this issue of the division of universities into those which would not have to obtain this agreement, i.e. universities, so that I would say, academically, public, conducted by religious and military unions, and non-public universities which would have to obtain such permission or permission. The answer of the representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration was that this is because we want to safeguard ourselves so that there are no higher education institutions that will be fictitiously engaged only in the education of foreigners, and consequently legalising their stay here and any subsequent work, post-graduate work. These public and academic universities, which have a certain track record, are more reliable and are more confident that this is only about education. But just as the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration have provided, there will be no obstacles here, we are open to young people coming from all over the world and studying at our universities. It's just a guarantee like that and a guarantee like that. Amendments 1, 3, 5, 8, 9 from the Legislative Bureau's opinion were accepted. The law was unanimously and unanimously approved by the committee. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u16	Thank you, Senator. Please remain for a while, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question about the criterion. Why have these ones been turned off and the latter can educate without any pre-conditions, without imposing any requirements on them? This is a bit of a wonder, because those who have worked or worked at universities know what the problems are and how such education is going. I think it would be best if all universities were subject to this paragraph, saying that they were to obtain permission for such education. I know what the problems are. I met them at my university. But the greater control of participation in classes has solved most of these problems properly. Leaving it for a large group of universities, those that ex-definitione have all the privileges, and additionally, it doesn't solve anything, because the problems are right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u18	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u19	Mr. Senator, I've been trying a little bit to summarize the committee meeting. Firstly, most students who are outside the European Union are, however, educated at public universities. This is the vast majority. Secondly, even in the case of non-public universities, where they have academic status, there is no need to obtain consent. And as the representatives of the Ministry stressed, if there were any irregularities in non-public universities, as we can imagine, the ministry would be... It is not that public universities, which have this supposed consent, do not have to apply for it, are left so little self-pass. If there are any irregularities in granting... If there are any irregularities in education and, consequently, in the area of legalisation, because that is the case, the residence of citizens outside the European Union, the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration will be able to withdraw this alleged consent, which is, as it were, a rule of law. We have these non-public universities, I think, over 200. They have different status. Most of them are business ventures, because that's how it has to work. Let's just say that public universities aren't profit-oriented, but the education mission is kind of basic there. In non-public universities, of course, the activity is the same, that is, education, but all of this must already be connected with the economic account, because they are formally economic operators. And the ministry decided that the credibility of public universities and universities, including non-public universities, that have some history that has many years of, say, 10 years of experience in education. However, this does not in any way exclude non-public education. They will simply have to obtain permission from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u20	Are there any further questions? Senator Żaryn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, however, I would, let's say, address this question by senator hare, because somewhere here there is a fundamental problem regarding the inequality of treatment of entities that have already achieved such equality in other respects. Therefore, there is a suspicion that the Ministry, in this case of home affairs, claims to introduce some mechanism of distinction between universities on the basis of de facto administrative or, in other words, on the sense of smell. Sorry for the wording. In terms of which university can receive consent and which cannot receive permission to train foreigners. Didn't anybody put it up, that non-compliance with the law of division according to the unclear criteria of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u22	Mr Senator, this issue was raised by Senator Misiołek, as well as by the chairman of the Zientarski committee, who sort of supported this argument by the Senator. I, on the other hand, can only say two things in addition. The Directive of the European Council provides for the possibility of such a division. That's one thing. And secondly, the record of this, I would say, was accepted by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. These provisions were agreed with the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin and the departmental department, so to speak, he supported such a provision. One more thing. No way. I'm gonna point it out again. This does not mean that non-academic non-public universities will not be able to educate citizens, students who are nationals of countries outside the European Union. They're just gonna have to go through some administrative approval procedure. And they have this... I take into account that the bill will come into force, I think, at the latest next month, so by 1 October they have enough time to get such consent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u23	Are there any more questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Ms Renata Szczech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is taking part in the meeting. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Renata Pzczech: Yes.]] Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To complete the senator's statement. I would like to add that the proposed regulation is a legal solution, which is mainly aimed at the implementation of the directive, because we are, of course, obliged to implement the provisions of the directive into the Polish legal order. Tourist tourism. This phenomenon was noticed primarily by authorities controlling the stay of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, bodies subordinate to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, especially during 2017. It consists of applications by foreigners for temporary residence permits, in particular by third-country nationals, most often non-European, e.g. by citizens of Iraq, Bangladesh, Pakistan, India who reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland very briefly, usually on the basis of a Schengen visa issued by another Schengen country. It is therefore proposed to add new conditions to existing provisions 2 - refusal to initiate procedures for granting temporary residence permits and work respectively, as well as temporary residence permits for the purpose of highly qualified employment. These would be directly linked to the purpose of the stay, which is the essence of this regulation. At the same time, the new premises, as mentioned by the senator, are intended to eliminate the effective initiation of proceedings during short stays. This phenomenon, contrary to appearances, is really noticeable, especially in the field of the activities of all universities. I repeat, everyone. At the same time, it is very often a procedure which foreigners use to legalize their stay, any form of legalisation of their stay in the Schengen area. Even in response to the senator's question of distinguishing universities or dispeling doubts about the use of the method of distinction. I would like to say that the rules that are primarily aimed at recognising academics, those which will not be subject to It's like there's been a re-verification... They have been given priority to universities, which above all give a greater guarantee that they do not violate the work permit procedure, whether it's a visa permit or a permit for students from third countries, in relation to such foreigners. Once again, I would like to emphasise that there is a full understanding of this proposal, its essence, that the provisions of the Directive are in principle related to the rules governing the mode of residence, i.e. the rules in the area of migration. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as the leading resort in the case of this amendment, took particular care to ensure that each regulation, each provision which introduces the submission, refers to the control of the fulfilment of the obligation arising precisely from compliance by all entities and universities of the legal regime, generally covered by the law in relation to foreigners, in relation to the legalization of their stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u25	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Bear, you volunteered. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a supplementary question to the questions I put at the committee meeting. Namely, one of the basic principles which the Minister of Science and Higher Education promotes today is the principle of internationalising higher education, so that it is simply exchange of students, flow, etc. So if... I understand that this law doesn't apply to students in the Schengen area, that there's no way that universities can't accept students in the Schengen area. It's about students who are outside this zone. And here the largest group are students who come from Ukraine. And now my question: was this idea of internationalization taken into account, or was it simply forgotten when it was constructed? That's the first line. And then there's the second line. What about programmes like Erasmus? Erasmus is a programme that is open to the whole world, and there are students who are educated at universities under this programme. Will non-public universities not be able to train under the Erasmus programme? They won't be able to send their students and accept students from other universities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! To answer your question, I would like to clarify once again the answer to the qualification of the university or the reference of the department to this regulation. Please accept that this regulation does not constitute any indication of the supervision of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Universities. This is a regulation which relates exclusively to the scope, as I said, of the right of the entire area concerning the legalization of residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In addition, I would like to emphasise that these are requirements relating in particular to the possible breach of defence or State security considerations or the protection of security and public order, and I look here at the proposed article. 144a. At the same time, this is required by the general interest of the Republic of Poland and a number of other conditions which should be met by the entity. This is in the case of a university that... We are not talking about Ukrainian citizens here. I want to address this in such a way that it is indeed in the area of infringements of these regulations, i.e. As a rule, universities don't have that kind of problem for us to verify. I mentioned third countries and exchanged Bangladesh and Pakistan. These are the countries that... students from these countries are causing us the biggest problems in terms of violating the rules laid down in the bill. About Erasmus... The provisions on Erasmus exchanges will absolutely not have a reference here. There's no such threat.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u29	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Well, since there isn't, thank you, ma'am... [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] [[They're ……]] Sorry, Senator Czerwiński, who I find difficult to see because of the architecture of the room. [[The column's interfering.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm Mikry, so I can't be seen. Minister, the question is: how many foreign students are studying with us right now? Do you even have that kind of information? We know that most of Ukraine, but what's about a number?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, yes, on the basis of an agreement with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education... This regulation also introduces that we will have access to the school ministry's database. So that's the preview we have. It's hard to tell the exact number of these students right now, because the report that's being completed... Such an accurate report is at the end of March, the balance sheet that is made in the system. For the moment, it's... I can't give you the exact number. As I say, this is the property of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. But as far as our procedures are concerned, I reserve here the number of about 130 thousand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u33	You're still Senator Rusiecki. There you go. Then there's the next person.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I, too, want to go towards Senator Czerwinski's question, but be more specific. I am interested in the number of students who are interested in studying in military dorms, those students who are from outside Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u36	Thank you very much. May I ask you to be more specific? Is this about the applicants, or are they currently studying? [[It may be for the sake of clarity: and currently studying, and applying, seeking the opportunity to study at military dorms.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, if I may, I will reply in writing because the concept of military universities is very broad. Those few I have right now... We have not prepared such a set for the purpose of this law. But we will send this information in writing, very precise, the information we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u37	Mr. Marshal, for the record, Minister, I would like to clarify. I mean these five military universities: the Academy of Land Forces, the Orląt School, the WAT, the Naval Academy and the Academy of War Art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u38	You're asking Senator Hare a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u39	Minister! Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask if such a procedure, that the student receives a scholarship in exchange, on the basis of any of these programs, and indicates the university... Does this mean that then this procedure, so to speak, extends to the ministry, only the ministry confirms that the university can accept a given student, or then automatically starts its studies? I'm asking because this is where I'm confused about the explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u41	Thank you. I'll answer the senator's extended question. Actually, for the moment... I'd like to give you precise data, so we'll send it in writing if the senator says so. As for the second question, the senator's question, I would like to clarify again. At the moment, the question of applying for a scholarship in the case you're asking the senator for doesn't completely affect the visa process or the legalization of your stay. These are two separate processes. Therefore, there is no justification for the question raised by your senator as to whether such a student will not be able to start his studies in any way. These two procedures are independent of each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u42	Mr. Senator, would you like to continue? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u43	Yes. I would like to ask the question of the answer and that question of mine. Namely: would that mean that we divide universities into those that authorize the visa and those that cannot confirm the visa?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u44	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u45	Absolutely not, Mr. Senator, there is no such division. I will repeat once again so that the mechanism for introducing this regulation can be well understood: in principle, all universities are subject to verification. All of them. There is only such division that applying for an entry in the register we are talking about will include universities that are excluded. But that's just to meet the requirements I was talking about at the outset. It's not in any way... To apply and be a university student who is excluded from this verification process for the moment... This is subject to general rules. So that a student wishing to obtain a visa or legalize a stay is subject to the whole procedure provided for in the relevant legislation. So it's not like it's some kind of additional verification. We absolutely cannot combine these processes with each other. [[The question is...]] The procedure is the same, identical in the case of third-country foreigners, whether or not they are university students.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u46	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u47	Minister, you said that 130,000 students from other countries study in Poland. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u48	No. Subject to our procedure, which is the verification procedure under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, for the moment... [[Uh, subject...]] I'm talking about the individual number we can talk about. About the whole... I'm not responsible for the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, so that... [[I see.]] ...as regards the pool of foreign students in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u49	But of course it's going to be over 130 thousand in total. If you... And can you tell us how many foreign students are studying with us right now? That's the first question. And second question. How many cases were there, that is, how many students violate Polish law from this group, suppose, over 130 thousand people? How many cases were there?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, as I mentioned, the exact number, even because the statistics created by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education in their system, are complete at the end of March, which is at the end of the first quarter of the year... Even if I were to pass on this data right now, But, as I say, I'm not authorized to do that because I'm not a representative of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, they'd still be untrue, i.e. inconsistent with reality as verification procedures are still ongoing. As I say, this system is closed by the end of March. If I mentioned the number of 130,000... Because our procedures are being conducted, negative decisions that are being issued... Not all of them are public, so I can't do it right now... Therefore, I am merely talking about the entire pool of proceedings being conducted. [[Minister, I'm not asking for names, I'm not even asking for specific countries, I'm asking for general information. If you are unable to answer now, I would ask for a written reply. If you think it's a confidential number, then please reserve this letter, give it a confidentiality clause, such a strong clause. We senators have access to such documents, including the secret clause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u52	Will the Minister reply in writing? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Renata Pzczech: If I may, I will answer in writing in detail.]] Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Renata Jęch: Thank you.)]] Are there any more questions for the Minister? No questions. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Rafał Rogal, head of the Foreigners' Office, is present at the Senate meeting. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogala: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[I have a question for Mr. Rogali. Same question as the Minister. Perhaps the Minister will be able to answer that question.]] That's before the discussion... [[Yes. If you don't mind, before we discuss...]] Minister, please come to the podium. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[Do you want me to repeat the question?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u53	Minister, how many students from abroad study in Poland and how many, in general, had problems with Polish law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! I would say that, in my opinion, has maintained the Minister's will to answer this question in writing, and that is because this matter requires an in-depth analysis. We will clarify this answer by referring to specific years. I take it this is about problems with the law of a migratory nature?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u55	Do you have another question for the marshal? [[There's no legal issue at all, but if you can only answer a question about migratory problems, I'm asking for such information, to a certain extent. I expect an answer in writing.]] Are there any more questions for the Minister? Thank you, Minister. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Rafał Rogala: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bear will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The act in question aims to implement EU rules. This is clear and obvious to me. It is also clear to me that the first thing to do is to take account of the security of the state, and we should all always bear in mind. We should always be sensitive to the fact that statutory issues improve the security of the state, not spoil it. However, I will return to this issue that I raised at the committee meeting. Why am I going back to her? Because I have received many questions from non-public universities, which are not academics. And I will stress that there are about 250 such universities operating in Poland at the moment. All universities in Poland, regardless of their status, regardless of whether they are public or non-public, academic or professional universities, all operate under the same law, namely the law on higher education and science, i.e. they are all equal to the law. Each university, whether public or non-public, if it operates on the market, must comply with certain requirements of the Act. And now, in this bill under consideration today, we are colliding with the situation that five categories of universities are listed, which do not have to be approved, so they do not have to apply for permission in the form of a decision by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration to train foreign students outside the Schengen area. And those universities that do not have to apply for this agreement are listed enumeratively. These are universities, vocational universities referred to in the Law on Higher Education, i.e. public vocational universities, military universities, state services universities and universities run by churches and religious unions. These universities don't have to apply for such permission. In this case, there is only one category of universities, namely non-public universities, which are not academic universities and which, as I said, is currently in Poland about 250. This provision raises some concerns about unequal treatment of entities, because these entities must meet the same criteria, the same conditions, according to the Act. The law on higher education, and according to this law that we are treating today, must be said clearly, worse, because they must seek to obtain this approval. I understand that there is probably some small group of universities that are acting against the law that accepts students within the framework of, let's call it, educational tourism, but these universities should bear the consequences of their actions under the applicable law. It should not be that at the moment all non-university universities are equal to those that are, well, unbelievable, because it would have to be said that they are not reliable enough to educate foreign students. And one more thing that raises some surprise and concern. Military universities are not subject to this approval obligation, and it seems to me that security considerations should play an important role in this case. It should be in military universities that it should be especially well organized to look at what foreign students come to study there. In the meantime, they're out of the picture. I think that the record that appeared in the law, excluding this category of university, i.e. ordering this category of non-public universities to request permission... I think that here, in a sense, there is unequal treatment of entities operating under the same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u57	Thank you, Senator! I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to answer in writing the questions raised by Senators Rusiecki and Borusewicz and that Senator Frozz has submitted legislative proposals. Would a government representative like to comment on legislative proposals? The Minister does not speak on legislative proposals. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u58	We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1085 and the report of the committee In print No 1085 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. The purpose of the Act is to consent to the termination by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. Investment protection and support agreements were concluded by Poland with most of the Member States of the European Union, so-called. BIT agreements. BITs are currently being challenged by the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union because they are incompatible with European Union law. The Court of Justice of the European Union has stated that Member States concluding BIT agreements have established a mechanism for resolving disputes with other investors by which disputes which may affect the interpretation or application of European Union law will not be resolved in such a way as to ensure the full effectiveness of this right, which undermines the autonomy of European Union law. The Act does not raise any legislative objections, so that I ask the High House very much to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Entrepreneurship and Technology were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 1069, and the committee's report In print No 1069 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Pęka, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the joint Senate committees a report on the committee meeting that took place yesterday. May I first say a few words about the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is at the heart of this Senate legislative initiative. The proposed Act amending the Law on Environmental Protection aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 March 2018 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act on the Protection of the Environment with a Constitution. The Court held that Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Environmental Law is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to the contested article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Environmental Law, with the claim referred to in paragraph 4. It is possible to apply for a period of 2 years from the date of entry into force of the regulation or local law which restricts the use of immovable property. The term specified in this provision is so-called. Preclusive term, i.e. tangled. Its overshooting therefore results in the expiry of the claims of the rightholder. The quoted article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 4 The environmental law refers to the following claims: firstly, the purchase of a property or part of it with which the owner of the property may apply where, in connection with the limitation of the use of the property or part of it in the previous manner or in conformity with its intended purpose, it has become impossible or substantially limited; secondly, the compensation for damage suffered, including the reduction of the value of the property with which the owner of the property may apply, if the damage was caused by the restriction on the use of the property; thirdly, the purchase of the property or part of it or compensation for damage suffered, with which, subject to the circumstances indicated above, a perpetual user may apply. In addition, a person entitled to property rights may also claim damages. These regulations apply where the limitation of the use of real estate in relation to the protection of environmental resources occurs by subjecting areas or facilities to protection under the Nature Conservation Act or the designation of quiet areas in the agglomeration and quiet areas outside the agglomeration. As far as this first category is concerned, this applies primarily to forms of protection such as: national parks, nature reserves, landscape parks, protected areas, nature monuments, documentaries, ecological grassland or natural and landscape teams. Regardless of what Article provides for. Article 130 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Law on Environmental Protection, to limit the use of real estate in order to protect environmental resources, may also be sought under the Law on Land Planning and Land Planning. This applies in particular to the designation of shelters around national parks or nature reserves. In such a situation, the legal basis for the submission of claims relating to the limitation of the use of immovable property will be laid down in Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.4 of the Law on Environmental Protection, not Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3. This is clear from Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Environmental Law. In the case of a claim within the time limit referred to in the said Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act on Environmental Protection, the amount of compensation shall be determined by the competent governor. The decision on this matter shall not be subject to administrative proceedings in the administrative procedure of the court, but the person concerned may bring an action before the General Court within 30 days of the date of service of the decision. In turn, the demand for the purchase of immovable property or parts thereof shall be met by taking into account the applicable provisions of the Real Estate Management Act. The reference point for the deliberations of the Constitutional Tribunal was Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution, which not only develops and refines, but also recognises in terms of subjective law the general principle of property protection as set out in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. In accordance with the Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 each has the right to property, other property rights and the right to inherit. However, it should be borne in mind that ownership or other constitutionally protected property rights are not absolute and may be subject to statutory restrictions, except that any restrictions imposed by the legislator must comply with the requirements of proportionality, so to speak. a fitness test, the least nuisance, or necessity, and the proportionality of the strict sense. Those conditions shall consist of the content of the general presumption of necessity in the democratic State referred to in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 First sentence of the Constitution. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the restriction of property rights or other property rights must in no case affect the substance of those rights. First of all, the Constitutional Tribunal stressed that the allegation of too short a pre-emptive period concerns de facto the limitation of property and other property rights by subtracting from the necessary right-holders, i.e. as a consequence of a restriction on the use of immovable property, redemption claims or compensation. In the Court's view, the introduction into the article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In fact, the legislator was hoping that not all entitled would be able to benefit from their claim. This is dominated by concern for public finances, the desire to reduce expenditure charged to the state budget or local government units. The will to pay damages caused by the limitation of ownership or other property rights is less important. In this case, the stabilisation function and the safety and certainty of legal trading fall into the background. I presented this legal framework of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment to make it clear what kind of legislative task we have actually faced. The initial version proposed by the Legislative Office was intended to extend the 2-year period in the aforementioned article to 5 years. In addition, the Legislative Office originally proposed a version where the deadline referred to in Article was proposed. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Act amended by the current law expired before the date of entry into force of this Act, with the claim in question, within 3 years of the date of entry into force of this Act and which said that the claims referred to in Article were to be brought into force. 129 and which have not expired before the date of entry into force of this Law, the provision of Article shall apply. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act as amended by Article. 1 as amended by this Act. So, firstly, this term was extended from 2 to 5 years, secondly, an intertemporal provision was introduced, which also referred to claims that had already expired, and so it was adopted here as such that the law worked backwards. And with this initial proposal, we started yesterday's joint committee meeting. The position of the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Wild, was immediately presented, who said that this initial proposal was unacceptable, because it is very burdensome for the parties concerned to pay these damages claims, to bear the financial costs of these claims, well, it is quite deadly. Specific figures, specific figures, amounts have been mentioned, e.g. in the case of the airport in Poznań it was a total of 70 million, which is actually the whole annual revenue of the airport would be allocated to such claims. Moreover, for very fundamental legal reasons, this provision was challenged, which would have acted on claims that had already expired in the past. Moreover, this was not only the position of the Ministry, but this idea was also very clearly criticised in the opinion presented by the Supreme Court, which stated that the restoration of new time limits by law for the deadlines already passed is very, very debatable and controversial from the point of view of such fundamental principles of legal reasoning. The Ministry has therefore proposed 4 proposals to correct this initial project. They were taken over by the joint committees and voted by the joint committees. At present, the legislative proposal is to execute the Constitutional Court's judgment by introducing a three-year period for making a claim, i.e. not a five-year period but a three-year period, so the change in legal status is that we extend this period from 2 to 3 years. That's one thing. And two: to give up this provision that would apply to claims that have expired, and to introduce an inter-temporal provision that would consist in... Wait a minute, because I have to invoke the right rule. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. In any case, the point of this provision is that the three-year term will apply to claims which, so to speak, run and which will not expire at the time of the entry into force of the new law. The amendment was also adopted to make it clear that the Act enters into force on a specific date on 15 March 2019. Well, it is dictated that there is no legal uncertainty that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is repealing the provisions of the law in force on a specific day, and there is no provision to correct the gap. So in order for there to be no doubt, we added this deadline so that the Act would enter into force on 15 March 2019. With regard to the committee's deliberations, it can be said that such two opposing positions have emerged. The first position is the position of those who want the scale of claims not to be too large. Airports, airports, are particularly represented here. The representatives of these communities were pleased with this modification, i.e. that this deadline would be shorter than five years old. The second group, opposing, of course, are property owners and representing their specialised lawyers, who see good business in the investigation of this type of claim. It is well known that these environments would want the legislation to be as liberal as possible, the terms as long as possible, and the possibility of redress as wide as possible. So the whole philosophy around this sentence is to find some compromise, some golden measure, some balance in these conflicts of interest and goods. And I think that compromise has been found. This solution is optimal, followed by a majority of committees. I would just like to say that, regardless of the content of these rules, it can be said that in Poland, for many years now, a judicial line has been presented, which is one of the most liberal in Europe. In general, the Polish courts are very supportive of such claims. You can't say the courts are acting against the owners of these properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicant. Let me remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Mark Pęk. Do any of you senators want this question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. You're Marshal Borusewicz, aren't you? [[No, Senator Borusewicz just made some adjustments.]] [[Voice from the room: But also for discussion...]] You want to speak, Mr. Marshal. Yes? [[Well, I volunteered...]] You're welcome. [[Sorry, I didn't notice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are currently discussing environmental law. Many changes have been made to this law, and we have dealt with it many times. I don't know why we missed the examination of the President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. We're mirroring everything... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry. Does this have to do with this item?]] Ma. Mr. Marshal, I have 10 minutes. Let me speak. This concerns this law and I will propose an amendment in this respect. It is not known why, for what reasons, we have not entered a sample with regard to the President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, in a situation where the President of this institution operates huge money, which counts in billions, not millions. This is a weird situation for me. Why is it that the president of such an important institution is not subject to judgment? I have suspicions about this. The current President, President of Kuja, is once again President. Probably before, when he was president and ceased to be president, he was still considered for this position. It's a strange situation where this function hasn't been entered as a subject of a vetting. Plus, it's kind of weird again. 'Cause here, of course, there's a weird coincidence. Its material was included in the restricted collection and remained there until the autumn of last year. And these materials should not be there at all, because these are materials which did not endanger the security of the Polish state. So for me to explain is also the question of who introduced the materials concerning Mr. Kuja into the proprietary collection. Intelligence, military counterintelligence? Intelligence, civilian counterintelligence? This case is to be explained. Well, it can't be that something happened, everybody's looking at each other, but especially those who know something about it don't take the floor. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] I believe that the principle of illustriousness must be introduced into the bill. This case needs to be cleared of certain suspicions, it needs to clear public life of this type of people who have broken out of good will or bad will. And decided to meet, to cooperate with the services of the Polish People's Republic. That is why I am proposing an amendment to the bill, an amendment that talks about the inclusion of the President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the illustration. I call this amendment "lex Kuja. " [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u64	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome. Senator on a formal matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u65	I would like to make a formal request to set a deadline for the committees to draw up an additional report which will enable the third reading to be carried out at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u66	Thank you very much. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Marshal Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Sławomir Mazurek: No.]] No? Thank you. You... yeah. As a matter of fact, there's been a motion... As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Senator Grabowski has submitted a request to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017. The text of the information is contained in print No 759. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 19 April 2018 and informed the Marshal of the Senate. I want... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're waiting for your president. [[First president.]] It's the president of the Supreme Court. The matter has been cleared up, Senator. Dismissed until 12:30. I hope the President will honor us with his presence. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 26 to 12 minutes 30]] Due to the seriousness of the High House, I declare a recess until 1 p.m. I hope the president will be here at some point. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 30 to 13 minutes 01]] Has the president honored us with his presence? [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] Great. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017. The text of the information is contained in print No 759. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. I'm asking your colleagues from the Platform to respect the Supreme Court. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal, I don't think there's any doubt...]] The Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 19 April 2018 and informed the Marshal of the Senate. I would like to welcome the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, to the Senate meeting. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the first Supreme Court President, I would like to present to you information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017. I would like to stress that this information was presented by the first President of the Supreme Court on 21 March 2018 and was, in accordance with the requirements of the Act, presented to the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate and the National Judicial Council. I have this document with me, which has nearly 250 pages and includes a very detailed report on the activities of the Supreme Court. Since this document is widely available, it seems to me that it will be useful to present this information to you in a short form. It would take a lot of time to analyse all the information provided in detail. I would like to emphasise first of all that the activities of the Supreme Court should be assessed primarily in relation to its functions in the system. It is a specific judicial authority appointed to exercise justice by ensuring the legality and uniformity of the case law of the general courts and of the military. Such judicate supervision is carried out through the recognition, above all, of the cassation and other means of appeal, as well as the adoption of resolutions determining legal issues. It is also the responsibility of the Supreme Court to recognise electoral protests and to determine the validity of elections to the Sejm and Senate, the European Parliament, as well as the election of the President and the validity of the national referendum and the constitutional referendum. In addition, in addition to the judicial activity, the role of this court is to evaluate draft laws and other normative acts on the basis of which the courts rule and function, and other laws, in so far as the Supreme Court considers it appropriate. Each of these areas of activity of the Supreme Court was in principle implemented in the reporting year 2017. The primary task of the Supreme Court is to perform the judicial function. It is worth noting that in 2017 there was a slightly lower impact of the cases in general to the Supreme Court than in the comparable period of the previous year. A total of 10,000 996 cases were brought to the Supreme Court. In a comparable period, in 2016, it was 11 000 102 cases. So this impact was, as I said, slightly smaller. Among the cases that affected the Supreme Court, there were, as every year, cassation and cassation actions. In total there were 7,000 698 cases, of which more than 3,000 cases were brought to the Civil Chamber, 2,000 164 cases were brought to the Labour Chamber, and 2,000 163 cases were brought to the Criminal Chamber. The number of cases affecting the Military Chamber was negligible, it was five cassation complaints. A group of cases that affect the Supreme Court also includes complaints, as well as appeals against military court decisions, actions for the annulment of a final decision, actions for the length of proceedings, actions for renewal, and disciplinary actions. The Supreme Court has ruled on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges on 60 cases and on the other professional groups, i.e. lawyers, solicitors, notaries, prosecutors, doctors and pharmacists 120 cases. It is necessary to note the fact that of cases involving judges in 2 cases, the judge was deprived of his right to rest with the right to pay and the judge was made public in 1 case. Compared to the previous year, the difference between the number of cases brought and the number of cases identified was more favourable. And that's a pretty big achievement of the Supreme Court, and then I'm gonna want to explain where that came from. While 320 cases were identified in 2016, more than the effect of court cases, this result was better by 377 cases in 2017. A total of 11,000 373 cases were identified in 2017, including 8,000 34 cassation and cassation complaints, 1 thousand 146 complaints, as well as 147 legal issues. The results of the Supreme Court were achieved in spite of the incomplete cast of the judge. In accordance with the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 14 April 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. At the time, it was in force and determined the number of judges' positions in the Supreme Court at the 93rd jury seat for 31 December 2017 was 81. So you could say that at least 10% Judgeships were unattended. A certain advantage for the Supreme Court was that during this reporting period 11 judges sent by the Minister of Justice for a period of three months were used. So that thanks to the help of these judges, but also due to efficiency and good work organisation, the statistical result has been improved, i.e. 2017 was the next year in which the number of outstanding cases in the Supreme Court was reduced. It has already had such a practical, rather beneficial dimension for citizens. For example, in the Civilian Chamber, several months were expected at the pre-trial stage to identify a cassation complaint, and then a further two to three months were needed to determine the case for the hearing. In accordance with the requirements of the Law on the Supreme Court, the report for 2017 also includes detailed information on the relevant problems arising from the case law of the Supreme Court, which is the most extensive part of this report. Here I would like to mention only part of these judgments, especially those examples which concerned the so-called. the resolution of the Supreme Court. These judgments, given by the Supreme Court on the presentation of legal issues, are of particular importance for the interpretation of these provisions of law, also for the functioning of common courts, which usually respect resolutions or at least refer to resolutions adopted by the Supreme Court. As in previous years, the subject matter of legal matters decided by the Supreme Court was very diverse. Specific issues have been presented in writing in this information, as I have already mentioned. I would like to stress that a large proportion of these judgments were pro-Citizen-like. They were supposed to have a practical role to play in ensuring protection of economically weaker participants in legal trade or the protection of the social interest. As regards the activities of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court, the resolution of 25 August 2017 on the signature of the III CZP 11/17 protecting existing housing relations in a situation of manifest legislative shortcomings can be pointed out. The case law of the Civilian Chamber of the Supreme Court also raised legal issues concerning the amendment of the Act of 11 April 2003 on the formation of the agricultural system, in determining which particular importance was attached to constitutional standards. The doubts raised in the case law of the general courts have revealed a number of legislative errors made by the legislator concerning in particular the inter-time arrangements and the harmonious position of changes made in the entire regulatory context. These issues concerned several resolutions of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in the Civil Chamber also dealt with issues related to the important issue of social reprivatisation. In its resolution of 7 judges of the Supreme Court of 19 April 2017 with the signature of the III CZP 84/16 in fact covering the circumstances closely linked to the action of the Decree of 26 October 1946 on the ownership and use of land in the area of m.st. Warsaw, it is so-called. Bierut's decree, which changed the ownership structure in Warsaw, referred to the problem whether the owner of the self-owned property who gave it to the tenant was liable to the owner in respect of the claim for compensation for the use of the property, even though he did not actually own the property. In resolving this issue, the Supreme Court stressed that the failure to approve the reprivatization law forces the courts to assess the claims of those who have been subject to nationalisation acts after the war, taking into account the applicable law. It is also worth noting the resolution of 21 December 2017, the signature III CZP 44/17, which raised the problem whether the curator of the inheritance not covered by the owner of the property could represent a decrease in the proceedings for the abolition of joint ownership with effect from unknown heirs of that co-owner. It is very important that the Supreme Court gives a negative answer to this question, especially in the face of a number of cases involving the abolition of joint ownership of immovable property which the joint owners or their heirs are not familiar with. In such cases, it is usually the property abandoned in connection with World War II or the Holocaust. The greatest difficulties of interpretation in relation to legal issues concerned procedural proceedings. Enforcement and judicial costs remain particularly important from the point of view of citizens' interests. For many years, these issues have been the subject of interpretation resolutions by the Supreme Court. This is worrying because the doubts raised in this regard concern specific standards which are largely technical in nature. Those provisions should therefore be precise and unambiguous. However, the Supreme Court has repeatedly had to resolve problems which should be resolved by a clear decision of the legislator. In the case-law of the Supreme Court's Criminal Chamber, cases in the field of material criminal law were dominated. Other issues concerned procedural law, bordering on public and procedural issues, inter-temporal issues, European Union law, fiscal criminal law and enforcement criminal law. Intertemporal issues and interpretation of new criminal laws were more common in decisions issued outside the legislative procedure. In the area of substantive criminal law and at the same time European Union law, the resolution of 7 Supreme Court Judges of 19 January 2017 on the signature of I KZP 17/16 on the issue of criminal liability for gambling not in accordance with the requirements of the Gambling Act was of vital importance to the judicial practice. The Supreme Court held that the conflict of national law with Union law in the light of the principle of direct application of Union law may lead to the substitution of national legislation with Union law or to the exclusion of a standard of national law by a directly effective standard of European Union law. The resolution of 7 Supreme Court Judges of 31 May 2017 on the signature of I KZP 4/17, issued as a result of the examination of the legal issue transmitted by the ordinary Supreme Court, was important. The Supreme Court ruled that the right of grace as the power of the President of the Republic of Poland as defined in Article. 139th sentence of the first sentence of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland can be implemented only against persons who are found guilty by a final judgment of the court, i.e. persons convicted. Only in such a way does the scope of this right not infringe the principles expressed in the wording of the Article. 10 in conjunction with Article. 7, 42, 45. 1, Article Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 and Article 1 177 constitutions. The resolution of 7 Supreme Court Judges of 26 April 2017 on the signature of I KZP 2/17, issued after the hearing of the Ombudsman's application, was important for the practice of applying the conditional institution of early release. The Supreme Court stated that the grounds for ruling on conditional early release from the remainder of the sentence of imprisonment are the criteria set out in Article. 77 §1 of the Penal Code, however, are not grounds for determining the scope of the Directive as set out in Article. 53 of the Criminal Code, Art. 54 §1 of the Criminal Code and Art. 55 criminal code. Among the judgments issued outside the legislative procedure, special attention should be paid to the issues raised in connection with the entry into force of the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure from 2013 to 2016. In the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, social security cases were the most important. Many of them were of great importance to the development of relations in labour relations. For example, the question of a lump sum per night on a business trip, which is available to an international driver employed by an employer other than a state or local budgetary unit, may be mentioned. In its resolution of 26 October 2017 III PHP 2/17, it was considered that a flat-rate stay for the professional travel of an international transport driver may be specified in the collective agreement or in the remuneration regulation or in the contract of employment below the 25 per cent limit referred to in the labour law applicable to workers employed in the public or local budgetary units. In order to justify this view, the enlarged composition of the Supreme Court has shown, in particular, that the deprivation of legal effect of the Article. 21a The Act on the working time of drivers following the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 24 November 2016 re-evaluated the legal situation. However, this does not imply that international transport drivers with employee status are not entitled at all to travel charges. In 2017, the Supreme Court in its 7-person composition also adopted 2 important resolutions on insurance matters which concerned the right to a survivor's pension. In the first case, the Supreme Court accepted that an eligible family member acquired the right to a survivor's pension after death despite failure to meet the conditions, but had a fixed right to a pension for incapacity to work as a result of an error by the pension authority. In the latter case, the view has been expressed that the contractual, also implied determination and delivery after divorce of the means of subsistence to the divorced spouse who is considered solely guilty of the distribution of life cannot be regarded as a right to maintenance within the meaning of Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 3 of the Law of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. In competition and consumer law, energy regulation, telecommunications and rail transport cases were also very important. On 22 June 2017, the Supreme Court adopted a resolution stating the nature of the sewage connection within the meaning of Article. 2 point 5 of the Act on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water. It is also worth noting that in the reporting year in respect of matters falling within the jurisdiction of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u68	Excuse me, Mr. President. [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: Yes?]] Just for a second. I would like to welcome the President of the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus, Mr Mikhail Miasnikowicz, who is with the delegation on an official visit to Poland at the invitation of the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Continue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u69	Thank you very much. It is also worth noting that, in the reporting year, in matters falling within the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, the Supreme Court has asked the Court of Justice of the European Union three times with questions under Article. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It has long been a matter of constant and particular concern for the Supreme Court to ensure the consistency of case law and to remove the divergence in interpretation of law. Therefore, in the reporting year, as I have already actually stressed, the legislative activity of the Supreme Court was important. It has a significant impact on the harmonisation of the case law of the general courts, the development of law and the formation of legal awareness of society, which is particularly noticeable in the areas of political, socio-economic and the rule of law and the protection of citizens' rights. Unfortunately, there were a number of cases in which the Supreme Court refused to adopt a resolution. The reasons for this were different. On several occasions, common courts in their resolutions went beyond the conditions for the admissibility of a question addressed to the Supreme Court or presented questions in a manner which did not allow the answer to be given in the form of a resolution. The legal issues raised were often overly detailed and vague. They were not always dominated by significant interpretation problems. It is therefore still up to date to organise training on the methodology of constructing and formulating legal issues presented to the Supreme Court. However, the overall assessment of the legal questions addressed to the Supreme Court is positive. In the vast majority they were formulated correctly and concerned complex and socially significant problems of interpretation, and their resolution allowed the Supreme Court to effectively fulfil the constitutional role of the judican supervisor over the activities of universal courts. I would also like to stress that, in the context of the Supreme Court's resolution, it is also necessary to be active in the examination of uniformity and consistency of case law by the first President of the Supreme Court. In this respect, as every year, the President spoke to the Presidents of all appeals and district courts asking for notification under Article. 22 §1 (2) of the law on the system of common courts recognised divergences in court case law. Some of these were subsequently grounds for requesting their removal under Article. 60 §1 of the Law on the Supreme Court here should be added: then in force. Similar advantages as resolutions have often been decided in cassation cases, both in terms of the importance of legal issues raised in them and in terms of the impact on the correct application of the law. The views presented by the Supreme Court not only influenced the practice of universal courts but also had a real impact on the activities of law enforcement agencies, lawyers and other legal practitioners. A significant degree of complexity recognised by the Supreme Court of cases and multifaceted matter were often due to the poor quality of the law created. Changes in law were often provisional and were carried out in a hasty manner. For these reasons, the law gradually loses its readability and consistency, becoming an increasingly complex tool and thus less effective and useful in social life. The elimination of low-quality legislation should be done primarily by a prudent and precise amendment, which respects the basic principles of legislative technique and complies with legislative standards. It is also important to ensure that the amended standards are consistent with the existing rules. Stable law is an important factor in the process of raising the general level of public legal awareness. A permanent and serious problem is still the lack of adequate intertemporal regulation and very often too short period of vacathio legis. In its judgments, the Supreme Court has repeatedly signalled the perceived shortcomings of legal regulations, making specific requests de lege ferenda. Reservations concerning the applicable rules have also been notified by common courts. As in previous years, the Supreme Court asked all appeals and district courts to signal possible irregularities in the system of law. Specific issues concerning loopholes and irregularities in the law that were found in 2017 were raised under Article. The 5th Law on the Supreme Court and presented in a separate study. A special place in the organizational activity of the Supreme Court has always been the issue of making its judgments public. Undoubtedly, wide access to the Judiths of the Supreme Court is not only conducive to the uniformity of the case law of the general courts, but at the same time enriches the Jurisprudence and improves the legal culture of the whole society. Particular attention was therefore paid to the drafting of official collections of judgments and the constant updating of the Judican online database. It is also important to note the active activities of the Public Information Reference, which, despite the increasing burden, has carried out on an ongoing basis the requests of stakeholders. Taking all this into account, the activity of the Supreme Court in the judicial field should be assessed highly. The results obtained, both in terms of case law and in terms of the overall number of cases identified, should be assessed positively. Maintaining the efficiency of the Supreme Court is due to the personal involvement of judges and their responsibility and care to ensure that citizens have the most effective judicial protection. In a broader context, this is also the result of the activity of all the employees of the Supreme Court, including members of the Office of Studies and Analysis, assistants of judges and administrative staff and staff. As regards the organisational activities of the Supreme Court in 2017, it was important, among others. international cooperation. It took place on several levels. First, the Supreme Court joined the European Union's judicial network established in 2017 with the aim of setting up an electronic platform for cooperation between the Court of Justice of the European Union and the highest judicial authorities of the Member States in 2018 with information on documents issued under the preliminary ruling procedure, as well as national decisions relevant to European Union law and analysis. Secondly, in 2017, the Supreme Court joined the network of supreme courts cooperating with the European Court of Human Rights. The result of this lively international cooperation was also participation in numerous conferences and research projects. It can be pointed out that in 2017, the informational activity of the Supreme Court spokesperson was also of greater importance than in previous years. This was due to the great interest of journalists, which was due to the work on new laws on justice, and in particular on the Supreme Court Act. Most often it was about providing information on the consequences of the reform of justice for the Supreme Court, the positions and opinions of the Supreme Court on the draft laws, internal organisation and composition of the Supreme Court. Information was also provided on the case-law of the Supreme Court, affecting legal issues, scheduled court dates and so-called. media issues that may raise public interest. I would also like to stress that the anniversary of the century of the Supreme Court was a unique issue in relation to the 2017 reporting year. The assessment of the activities of this Supreme Court over the past 100 years required not only an in-depth history study, but also a summary of the rich judicial achievements and the commemoration of outstanding figures worthy of justice. On this occasion 2 monographs on the history of the Supreme Court were prepared, a monograph entitled: The President, Judges and Prosecutors of the Supreme Court in 19172017 and the Jubilee Book Supplement on the occasion of the 90th anniversary of the Supreme Court, History and Modernity. This supplement covered the years 2007 and 2017. The installation was also carried out outside and inside the court's premises and an exhibition entitled: The 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court and the General Court. The main celebrations were preceded by a meeting of judges in Piotrków Trybunalski, where the first President of the Supreme Court in the reborn Republic, Stanisław Pomian-Srzednicki, came from, and the official celebrations took place at the Royal Castle on 27 September 2017. Earlier we had a meeting in the Supreme Court and in connection with tradition there was also a mass in the cathedral. Even the same hour was kept. It was such an emphasis on the historical traditions. Of course, it was a very important event for the Supreme Court. We are convinced that this ceremony will remain in the memory of all the judges. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the conditions under which the Supreme Court operated during the reporting period were significantly different from those which occurred in previous years. This is due to the fact that in 2017 intensive and unconsulted work on amending the Law on the Supreme Court began. Their effect was to slow down the judicial activity. However, this was not the result of negligence on the part of the Supreme Court. The work on the July 2017 Act, its adoption and then the expectation of the President's signature made it impossible to manage the Supreme Court smoothly. In particular, this concerned a resolution activity which, as I said earlier, is very important and which in essence requires a longer period of time. Uncertainty regarding the status of Supreme Court judges and their business future has made it very difficult to appoint formations of judges and the Judges of the rapporteurs. This delayed the preparation of the papers and the appointment of the meetings. The activities of the Supreme Court during the reporting year were also affected by significant staff shortages resulting from the failure to serve as a judge and the failure by the Minister of Justice to include applications for the posting of judges in the Supreme Court. I would like to stress that some judges have been seconded. This was much better than in 2018, when the Minister did not delegate any judge, all applications for delegations were rejected. Despite the impact of cases of 11 000 a year, ruling in reduced staffing and regulatory instability of the legal system has managed to maintain very good efficiency in all categories of cases. The average time to wait for a substantive examination of the case was respectively: in the Civil Chamber 9 months, in the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance 13 months, in the Criminal Chamber 4 months, in the Military Chamber 2 months from the date of the effect of the case on the court. The average time for the Supreme Court to investigate the case was therefore approximately 7 months, which fully corresponds to the standards set out in the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Thank you very much. That's what I wanted in short form. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u70	Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. President? Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you mentioned in your speech that in 2017 the Supreme Court had extremely difficult conditions for normal functioning. Multiple amendments to the Supreme Court Act, the President's veto, the confusion around this important institution. I would like you to tell the President what are the reasons for not calling for further important vacancies in the Supreme Court of Judges, but merely posting them. You mentioned in your speech that you had only 81 judges for 93 judges. And my second question. I would like to ask you about a very important resolution of the 2017 Supreme Court, in which the Supreme Court took a position on the decision taken by the President of the Republic, pardoning the Minister of the Coordinator for the. Special Services Mariusz Kaminski, because this ruling is extremely loud and important. If you'd like to remind the High House of the conclusion of this bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u72	I'm sorry to start at the end, but I just mentioned this resolution among those that mattered. If there's a need, I can quote it again, giving the file's signature. In the meantime, before I find this resolution, I would also like to address the general question relating to the situation of the Supreme Court from a staff point of view in the light of the amendments that have taken place. I would like to remind you that the first version of the Supreme Court Act, which was vetoed by the President, in principle provided for the possibility of retiring all judges of the Supreme Court without defining any criteria. In fact, it was left to the Minister of Justice's decision. He was free to make a list of those Supreme Court judges who could stay in the Supreme Court. So, you could say, it was a matter of leaving the discretionary power of the Minister of Justice. From this, among others. the reason we're guessing this bill was vetoed by the president. But this kind of perspective, which showed that actually a large proportion of judges, or perhaps even a majority, would have to go away, of course, has very negatively translated into the functioning of the Supreme Court. I've emphasized that, too. This is particularly important from the point of view of precisely those resolutions which constitute a case of response to legal questions. Well, the practice is that before the Supreme Court gives that answer, the Judge-Rapporteur is appointed, who must prepare a paper on this matter. And in such a situation, when it was not certain who would stay in the Supreme Court and who would not, it was actually necessary to stop this work, because it might turn out that someone who had been appointed as a referee would have done a job, practically, completely unobserved and unnecessary. So it was very important, regardless of the sense of stability among judges and the mood. It is not necessary to explain to anyone that if someone is employed and has a real perspective that he is about to be fired, it somehow affects his approach to doing his job. And even there are some psychological conditions that make you think about your professional perspective and your overall situation. It is difficult to concentrate on the efficient performance of your duties. The resolution I mentioned, which you asked the senator about, is the resolution of the 7 Supreme Court judges of May 31st. It was released under the signature I KZP 4/17.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u73	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President! Judge! I have such a specific question. How many cassation complaints were made in 2017 and how many were taken? Because there's a procedure, that in, it seems, a single person's secret composition is the qualification of the material, and then there's... what's the statistics on this? Later I will eventually have a second question, but a little out of 2017. Because I'd like to ask you about an emergency complaint institution, what it looks like right now. [[Prejudice...]] How's it gonna be later? I'm still reserveing a question in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u75	In answer to the senator's question, I would like to stress that the institution of pre-trial proceedings is strictly active in civil proceedings, i.e. in matters recognised in the Civil Chamber and in the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance. From these data, which I have here, it appears that 3236 cassation complaints were received by the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court in 2017. The complaint for finding that a final decision was unlawful, which had a similar verification procedure, was almost 300, to be exact 273. And if you compare it to previous periods... I told you the drop was small here when it comes to the impact of cassation complaints. Because in 2016, it was 3492 cases. So you could say that there were about 200 cassation complaints less than in the previous year. As far as settlements are concerned, these cassation complaints were dealt with 3452 or, well, about 200 more than affected, which, as I said, allowed to reduce the backlog, the number of cassation cases that are to be resolved, from 2030 to 1770. So this was such an important result, one can say, which improves in particular the situation of the parties, because the number of outstanding cases determines the time limits within which these cases can be dealt with. The more things he expects, the longer the deadlines are, of course, to deal with them. Now on the basis of the data I have before me here, I can also refer to the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance. Here the impact of cases in 2017 on cassation complaints was 2164, and 2,552 cases were dealt with, i.e. about 300 more than affected, which also improved the number of pending cases, reduced their number from 2264 to 1885. With regard to the problem of what part of the cassation complaints that affect are later recognized in substance, I can say that this... We'd have to give some statistical number, an average of a few years, because the case isn't equal. But it can be said, given the data from the last few years, that in the Civil Chamber about 1/3 of the cases are accepted for substance. And that number was even growing. In recent times, it's probably been over 40%. You could say that this is probably due to several factors. This number of cases, the increasing percentage of cases taken to investigate substantively... Because this prejudice is a sieve. Because there's a legal obligation... lawyers probably realize that in some situations there are no legal conditions to file a cassation complaint. Because let us remind you that this prejudice is not a question of any judge's assessment of whether or not the complaint is to be accepted. They are laid down by law 4 reasons which determine that there is even a possibility of acceptance Because not every case is subject to a cassation complaint to be dealt with. And it is the duty of the lawyer who brings the action to show that at least one of the grounds for accepting the cassation action is in place. And since this pre-trial system has been in operation for many years, it should be assumed that some lawyers do not decide to file a cassation complaint. Thus, the number of complaints brought is decreasing slightly, and as for those brought is therefore more likely to be accepted. We can also point out here that initially there were some problems related to the formal side of these remedies, in particular the actions for finding that the final decision was unlawful. A large number of complaints were rejected, i.e. they did not comply with the design requirements laid down by the law. But the situation is improving because lawyers benefit from the experience of their predecessors, from case law, so they know what these requirements are. So the number of cases that are rejected is falling. It seems to me that the trend in this area was very good, because it meant that the number of cases rejected is decreasing slightly, and the number of cases that are accepted for substantive examination is increasing. This also means that more accurate were the decisions of lawyers or legal advisers who decided to lodge cassation complaints. It seems to me that this is a pretty good indicator when it comes to the functioning of this institution, which is an extraordinary means of appeal. Because we need to remember that this isn't the third instance, it's about challenging final decisions. Thus, according to such general standards, certain restrictions are introduced as regards the possibility of taking advantage of such measures.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u76	Good. You're welcome, Senator. Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask you: are there any complaints lodged in 2017, which have not yet been dealt with? And the other thing. The point is, the president would like... They often come to us as on-call parliamentarians, such questions, people come... What is the relationship between a cassation complaint and an emergency complaint that has recently been introduced into the legal system? And what the moment of separation looks like, I mean. at which point do the cassation complaints end and extraordinary complaints begin? And how does it look on the statistical side? I know it goes a little beyond the information you're giving us, but for the public, it's an important problem, which is why I've allowed myself to ask such a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u78	In general, it can be said that there are certain doubts in this case, because, as I have already said, the cassation action, this essential means of challenging final decisions, is also entitled in the case of final decisions, as is the case in the case of an action for annulment of a final decision. However, the function of the cassation complaint is different and we would also have to refer in detail here to the conditions which determine the possibility of filing a complaint for a finding of unlawful final judgment. It seems to me that, in general, it is necessary to say that an emergency complaint is a measure that is, like, above the cassation complaint and if there is a possibility... I mean. is more than in the sense that it is as if the threshold of extraordinary character of this measure is set above. It is difficult for me to say how this will work in practice because I have no experience with an emergency complaint, because it goes to a newly created chamber. But on the basis of the general information that I have, you can say that it has failed to predict that these complaints will be very much And here it was said that it could be tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of complaints. Applications submitted to eligible entities are much less. As far as I'm concerned, the prosecutor may have filed no more than 3 or 4 complaints today, and the Ombudsman may have filed no more than 2 or 3. It seems to me that today it is about 10 complaints, and the law is in force, you can say, a year now. So there is a question of the effectiveness and purpose of this measure. He was even thought of as an emergency measure to bring to light judgments that were not in the opinion of citizens with a sense of justice. It is difficult for me here to tell what the perspective of this measure will be. Well, so far these complaints are generally very few. And what is their nature and whether they are substantively justified or not, will be a matter for ruling in the Audit Chamber. As far as we know, no decision has yet been made regarding the identification of such a complaint. So it's a field that's not recognized.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u79	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u80	The reform of the Supreme Court and the prior reform of the universal courts were conceived as a means to remove, say, lawlessness in Poland. From this state of appeal I think they've got something to illustrate in some way. Is it clear that the citizens in Poland were indeed harmed by the courts? Do these appeals confirm the words about a mafia, uncontrollable process of punishment? And second question. The reform of the Supreme Court provided for the creation of two new chambers and thus some budget resources for technical matters, rooms, etc. Did the state administration help with the organisation of this process And if not, are there any hope that this process will be well prepared?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u81	To answer the first question, I would say that I think that this small number of emergency complaints would hardly confirm such a general feeling that we are dealing in the judicial system with some great pathology. As we remember, the construction of this complaint is that it allows us to challenge decisions in the perspective of many years back, practically since the entry into force of the Constitution. So we probably have tens of millions of cases in which these complaints could be brought. The fact that these applications have been submitted relatively little to the competent authorities, and this sieve is such that the substantively identified will be, as the data indicate, several cases, this assessment does not seem to confirm objectively. Why do citizens not benefit from applications for a complaint? It is difficult for me to say, perhaps because of some legal advice they receive, and the conditions that are necessary for the complaint to be brought. Perhaps they get such advice from lawyers that there are very little grounds for making such a complaint. Here we must bear in mind that we have a whole system of exceptional remedies which may lead to the violation of the law. In addition to the cassation complaint, we have e.g. an action for the determination of the unlawfulness of a final judgment. And here, unfortunately. I will now refer to the senator's question. I see a fundamental problem when it comes to this complaint and a complaint for finding that a final decision is unlawful. The Supreme Court interprets these rules in this way. An emergency complaint can now be brought. This is a procedure which allows the final judgment to be touched, and the condition that an action for the annulment of a final judgment is admissible is that this judgment cannot be touched by the legal means available. The introduction of an emergency complaint has complicated the system so far that it can actually be said that until the time limit for making use of an emergency complaint has expired, the one which should be addressed to the new Chamber, the emergency control chamber As long as it is inadmissible, it is necessary to establish an action for annulment of a final judgment. This action may, in turn, be brought only within 2 years of the decision being finalized. And now we can have such a situation that the citizen makes an application, e.g. to the Minister of Justice to bring him an emergency complaint and, at that time, the time limit for lodging an action for the annulment of a final judgment. It seems to me that there is a need for some kind of intervention from the legislator, because by introducing this institution, I don't think the danger I'm talking about has been noticed. With regard to the problem of the functioning of the Supreme Court under the current law and the creation of new chambers, the Supreme Court unfortunately did not receive any assistance from public authorities. There were various promises to allocate additional rooms where such a large number of judges could be placed. Let us remember that according to the data I was referring to, the Supreme Court had 93 previous judicial posts, and actually employed 80 judges. The president has now stated that it is possible to fill 120 judges' posts, i.e., by 50%. more than previously operated in this building, which is not made of rubber and, practically speaking, was not designed for such a number of judges. This, of course, creates very serious organisational problems. The announcements from the IPN that promised to give up some of the rooms from the complex that he owns, and there's this wing... As far as I know, the institute has promised to release 20 rooms for the Supreme Court since December. We haven't gotten a single room so far. Now there's information that maybe in April the Supreme Court will receive a few rooms. This situation is really dramatic. [[This is an outrage.]] She became even more complicated because all the judges had returned to work, who had already been removed from court due to the age of 65. The reality is that the judges actually have nowhere to sit to work under decent conditions. It will probably be necessary to rent some rooms on the market. Well, it seems to be the only way to solve this problem. [[This is an outrage.]] I do not have to remind you that the great difficulty in organising the operation of the Supreme Court in its new structural arrangement was that for a long time the first President of the Supreme Court was not considered to be the first President. This made it very difficult to make any decisions in the Supreme Court because the possible actions of the first President were contested by the other authorities who said that Professor Gersdorf was no longer the President. Thus, many different circumstances have been imposed here, but from an organisational point of view the situation is, of course, very difficult for the functioning of the court. [[Mr. Marshal, could I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u82	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u83	Important and addressed in the great social debate, but also here, in this House in particular... Well, the responsibility of the courts is understood as honesty, morality and ethics is sort of censored. Is there a deterioration or improvement in this state of affairs in the work of the judicial review chamber? Is this a problem that should be put in such a way that it is more than what you said in the report, that 60 disciplinary cases have been brought to justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u84	With regard to the number of disciplinary cases that have been brought before the Supreme Court, let us remind you that these are cases which concerned appeals against disciplinary decisions at first instance. So it's not like there were only 60 disciplinary cases against judges a year at all... [[I see...]] From the data I had, especially when I was at the National Judicial Council, it appears that these proceedings were of course a little more. The Supreme Court received only appeals against court decisions at first instance and possibly disciplinary proceedings by the Supreme Court judges themselves. So this number isn't really that big. But unfortunately, there were cases in this group where the disciplinary offences of the judges were serious, because, as I said, in one of these cases, the judge was disciplinaryly removed from the profession. So that it's not exactly, you can say, such a common feeling that disciplinary courts for judges are particularly mild. In the last few years, at least a few judges have been removed from the profession. And if we compare it to the activities of disciplinary courts for different professions, we'll see. I think it's over there. The courts here are quite restrictive as regards the disciplinary responsibility of the judges. This was also due to the position of the National Courts, which was entitled to challenge disciplinary decisions at first instance and a large part of those complaints which had been brought, remedies, were measures to the detriment of judges. But it seems to me that, in general, the view of the judiciary, objectively speaking, is much better than that of some media information on this subject. I would also like to stress that these disciplinary decisions have so far been presented under the criminal procedure and these proceedings have been public to all Of course, the public also had access to such a disciplinary case against the judge. . and that all disciplinary decisions are published, those which have so far been issued by the Supreme Court, in annual collections. It is possible to examine exactly what was the subject of disciplinary proceedings, the decisions given by the courts of first instance and what was the position of the Supreme Court as a disciplinary tribunal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Now you ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President! The President of the Republic has signed a law which restores the possibility for 22 Supreme Court judges to rule. The law is to be implemented by the Court of Justice of the European Union ordering the Supreme Court to restore its legal status in accordance with the law and constitution, in particular those provisions relating to the transition of Supreme Court judges to rest. I think it's the December 2017 law. I'd like to ask you a question like that. I agree with the opinion of most lawyers that the bill was not needed for the president and vice presidents to be able to carry out their work in accordance with the Constitution. Yeah, but this bill was passed, I think it was the seventh amendment of the Supreme Court Act. I would like to ask the President whether the Court of Justice of the European Union will be satisfied with this decision in the context of many other cases raised in the public debate, as well as by the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union itself, in particular the questions raised by the Supreme Court, questions of a preliminary nature, but also in the context of the activities of the National Court of Justice and other aspects related to the rule of law in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u88	In reply to this question, I would like to stress that from the outset the Supreme Court judges believed that they were bound by the freezing order which the Court of Justice of the European Union issued and that this judgment should be enforced by all the authorities in their own sphere of competence. And the Supreme Court did its best. After that judgment, the Supreme Court judges appeared at work, ready to carry out their duties. Let me remind you that this position of the Supreme Court has been very criticised. It has been said that such a form of security is not an option at all, that it violates all standards, but ultimately the Court of Justice The 15 judges, if I remember correctly, confirmed the existence of this freezing order, confirmed that this provision is binding on us. It can be said that our legislator has passed a law which formally contains such a structure that these judges return and their expulsion at rest is considered to be nonexistent. Well, we're back to the state before that bill came into force. It's a construction. It's pretty hard to understand. She has some practical consequences, for example. problems of settlement of those checks which the judges have received, benefits related to remuneration for work, thirteens, etc. In general, it can be said that these judges should not be in a worse position than before the entry into force of the law, because there is also such a record that they retain the right to posts, salaries, etc. But it seems to me that this is another problem that does not concern the conclusion that this law was compatible with European Union law or not. Of course, it is difficult to judge in any way how this issue will be judged. Court of Justice of the European Union. He will give judgment at a certain time and only then will it be known how this matter was assessed. For the time being, proceedings before the tribunal continue, despite the adoption of this law. As far as the position of the European Commission is concerned, it seems that the Commission does not see grounds for the Court not to rule on this matter, because it has not withdrawn its complaint despite the adoption of that law. We will find out about the Court's assessment in the future. There is information that in April, the stand of the Ombudsman is to be presented to the Court, and then there is likely to be a verdict, but whether or not it will be so and what this judgment might be about... This is the matter that the tribunal will decide on. For now, we can only speculate or predict what may be the likely outcome, but this is the same as any other judicial decision. Until it collapses, it is difficult to anticipate the content of a possible decision. According to the information we have at the moment, a hearing is scheduled for 19 March at which 3 questions for a preliminary ruling from the Supreme Court will be examined together. And indeed, one of those issues that was raised there is also a problem concerning the functioning of the National Judicial Council, but this is, as I said, a completely open issue. We do not know what will happen at that time and what will be the evaluation of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Aleksander Pociej is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I have the following question. From the information I have, it appears that this report was filed by the Supreme Court in March 2018, then it entered the Senate. The Commission has dealt with this report on 19 April 2018, and we are proceeding today. And in this context, I have two questions. Firstly, was there any obstacle on the part of the Supreme Court, and we could not talk to you in the plenary room almost all year round? That's one thing. And secondly, when will you report for 2018? We'll try to make sure you're not invited to the plenary room until 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u91	I'm just Professor Gersdorf's deputy. Any invitation will definitely be addressed to her. As far as the 2017 report is concerned, I believe that the deadlines for submitting this report have already been set, but this has been cancelled. That's how I remember it. I don't know if I remember this issue correctly, but I think there were probably two deadlines, but then it was canceled. Perhaps this had something to do with the Senate's assessment of Professor Gersdorf's status. The practice is that, of course, data from the previous year are needed to draw up the report. It has been so tradition for years that the chambers of the Supreme Court are preparing a report on their activities by the end of January. The Act requires that such report of the Chambers be adopted by the Judges at the Assembly. All these meetings were held by 8 February, reports were forwarded to the first President and a summary report is being drawn up. It seems to me that, as in previous years, this will probably be done at the end of February or early March. In turn, when this report is submitted by the first President, it is an open issue. That's the point. Maybe the end of March, maybe April, maybe May. But I would like to stress here that it was also a tradition that the state authorities were invited to present this report at the assembly of all Supreme Court judges. We had such a practice that the President of the Republic of Poland came, for example. Marshals. This deadline is therefore always planned so that the State authorities are notified in good time of the date of submission of the information by the first President. It's hard for me to say what the specific date will be, but I assume it will be no later than May this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Zientarski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u93	Mr. President, two questions. The first question relates to the information you have just presented in response to the questions, which is this emergency complaint room. You have stated that several complaints are filed and that there is a chamber. I would like to know how many judges deal with these very few complaints and how it is in principle evenly, so to speak, the burden on judges to work. And is it being considered I'm just gonna say it like that. The question of reducing the number of judges? Because we hear that no case has yet been identified. None. [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: From these complaints...]] From complaints... [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: I.e. Maybe there's one left. I'm not the judge of this chamber, I'm not following that exactly, but...]] Yeah, but today you're acting with information... [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: But for 2017, and we are 2019 so that...]] For 2017, yeah. I see. All right. [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: I have not prepared current data, so I would not like to mislead you here.]] But at least when it comes to the number of judges... Well, we know more or less how many complaints there are. Whether one or two were identified wouldn't matter when it comes to the essence of this question. The second question concerns this so-called question. An immoral proposal. Well, that's what it's called in the press. It was about encouraging the judges of the Supreme Court who were illegally sent to rest. They were tried to encourage 100 percent of them not to come back. Please tell me how it was said that, so to speak, it was assessed by the environment and what is the effect of this immoral legislative proposal, which we also talked about here in the Senate. And the third line, the last one. You pointed out here that the legislator had not noticed one point, that is, the relationship between an emergency complaint and the recognition of decisions as invalid. We raised these points, only they were noticed, only they were simply omitted. Well, that was the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u94	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u95	As far as these complaints to the emergency control room are concerned, I'm only based on press data, because I haven't been following this issue. This is due to the fact that there are actually very few of them. I don't know if there's been any criminal investigation, any complaint to be investigated. Like I said, I don't know for sure. Well, there's 20 jobs planned for this room. It is important to stress that complaints about chronicity are still within its jurisdiction, but these are not substantively complex matters. Well, there's these election stuff, too, but they show up every once in a while. It seems to me that from the information that was presented, it appears that when the Chamber began to act, it had a total of about 300 cases, of which the vast majority were those complaints for the duration. Yeah, and there's so-called. regulatory matters. It can be said that these cases have been brought together for about a year. Well, there are about 300 cassation complaints a month to the Civil Chamber, and we now have 34 judges. The burden on judges in these chambers can be compared. I don't think it's even about the workload, because the judge should be working as long as it takes. I would rather mean certain, as it is said, rational use of forces and resources. If there is such a huge burden imbalance in the same court, then the question arises whether this is rational action. Well, it seems to me that if this situation doesn't change in some long term, it's not going to be possible to treat it as a target, rational solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. President, I'd like a request...]] There you go. [[You weren't prepared for this kind of question, it's about the number of these cases, the complaints, so I would ask you to answer in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u97	Okay, of course... [[Yes?]] ...by all means. Besides, these issues will be partially taken into account in the... [[In the next report?]] ...report for 2018 [[Okay, okay.]] Soon we'll have some... But, of course, the senator can get information as much as possible about how many of these things were, what kind of things they were, and how many of them have been dealt with so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u98	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Now you're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Mr President, some of the most appalling information that comes to us, senators, is about how much the effects of changes in the judiciary have been missed with the declared reasons for making these changes. I am thinking, above all, of the argument that it is necessary to speed up judicial proceedings in various areas, in different parts of the judiciary. And right now, we have the first data. This data is partial On how it looks in civil proceedings, how it looks in criminal proceedings, how it looks in economic proceedings, and finally how it is in the case of declaring the bankruptcy of companies. We have these residual data on the rate at which it fits, so to speak, the necessary data in the eternal books. I'm talking about this by giving you a sequence of areas where these delays are the biggest. They are the smallest in civil proceedings, the largest in economic trade proceedings and the largest in perpetual books. And, for example, I'll get right to the question. In 2015 there were 5,000 919 cases unfinished in the District Court of Warsaw, in 2016 6,000 362, and in 2017 8,000 399, i.e. there was a huge increase. Countries are often burdened, i.e. The Supreme Court, and all that was going on around the Supreme Court, the responsibility for this really slowing down, sometimes even paralysis in court proceedings. How would you relate to that? That's one thing. Secondly, do you have such statistics concerning Poland as a whole, and not just those that reach us, i.e. from the respective county courts that we know about in our constituency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u100	Thank you. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u101	This data is available to the Ministry of Justice and it seems to me that the Ministry of Justice already knows exactly what was the situation in the whole judiciary last year. I can only appeal to some sort of sketchy information that would point to this. At least this is the data for the first half of 2018, because they were published somewhere by the press. That the waiting time for the case to be investigated was prolonged. But this is probably not special, it can be said, a surprise, because despite the declaration that a reform of the justice system will be carried out, which will improve the functioning of the courts, we have actually dealt with mainly solutions that dealt with staff issues in the judiciary. Some procedural changes are just being announced. They're either at the stage of the announcement or submitting a project. So at this time, it would be really difficult for me to point out some solution that improved the functioning of the judiciary. There's also some objective information that might explain why the backlogs were growing. There is, for example. information on the number of vacant judicial posts. Recently, the press published information that the president had appointed 39 judges last year, and there are around 800 vacant posts. The situation was a little saved by the asessors and in the courts... I say this from the memory of this data, but it seems to me that it was very meaningful in them that the relatively best situation was in the regional courts, because there were probably 200 unattended jobs, and completely dramatic in the district courts and appeals. From these data I'm putting them out of my mind, so probably not exactly. It appears that there are approximately 400 vacant posts in district courts and about 100 in appeals courts. Given the number of district courts, we can say that statistically 10 judges are missing from the average district court. Well, these are data that must somehow affect the functioning of the judiciary. I can already say specifically what the effect had, for example. sending judges to the Supreme Court at rest as regards the situation in the Civil Chamber. I said that in 2016 and 2017 the number of cases that remained pending was reduced. At the end of 2017, it was less than 1,000 800 cases. In the Civil Chamber, we had to deal with the situation that as a result of this December law, dozens of judges left, and that was practically half of the Civilian Chamber. Here, the percentage of judges who had to leave was the biggest. This led to a 50% increase in the Civilian House's backlog last year. I therefore expect that these data, which will be included in the 2018 report, will unfortunately in general be much worse for the Supreme Court due to the systemic changes that have been introduced. In a situation where one of the common courts has very serious staff shortages, it seems to me quite natural that in such a court it is difficult to control the influence of cases and improve the efficiency of the proceedings. In this case, we still have to remember that the burden on judges is not the same. We usually use some average data, but there is a big difference in the number of cases affecting the small district court, and for example. to the district court of Warsaw. Unfortunately, here we are dealing with such a situation that in many civil courts judges have in their papers within a thousand cases. And if someone has 1,000 cases, they have to prepare for them and set up a meeting, you can ask yourself: when can he really handle these matters? Well, in that case, it's hard to expect any efficiency in court action. Here's the situation. However, the actions of the authorities responsible to improve this situation, I do not particularly see, apart from such general declarations, that the authorities would like to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u103	Mr. President, two questions. Some indicator of the effectiveness of the courts' functioning in relation to the greatest problem of chronicity is the number of cases, complaints brought before the Supreme Court for the duration of proceedings. What does it look like compared to other periods? If you'd like to say... From the point of view of what is your responsibility, do you see what is happening in the judiciary? What do these statistics look like? And then there's the second line. The Supreme Court dealt with reprivatization issues in Warsaw and therefore resulted in general conclusions. Would you mind expanding the matter a little bit? I am asking because this is also addressed to Parliament, so I am curious exactly how the Supreme Court dealt with specific matters in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u104	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u105	As regards the number of complaints about the length of proceedings, I cannot say responsibly whether they have increased in any significant way because they never belonged to the property of the Chamber. I would have to go to the details of the work report at the moment, because this belonged to the jurisdiction of the workhouse, and this would have to be compared to the data from previous years. So I'm not able to answer that question. But it is not excluded that the number of these cases is increasing. For if arrears grow, the average time of recognition of the case is prolonged, it seems to me quite natural to say that these cases should be more than less. But that would have to be verified. And now, for a long time now, these cases have been in the jurisdiction of the emergency control room. It's also a newly formed chamber. I don't have the exact information... The senator asked, in writing, the number of complaints will be clearly indicated. I don't know, I think it's probably gonna be a government of 200,000 complaints. But in what period they have come in and what it looks like compared to previous years, I can't say exactly at the moment. As regards the issue of the reprivatisation law, I would like to stress here such a fundamental issue that these cases were brought to the general courts and, consequently, to the Supreme Court after the conclusion of the most important stage of proceedings, which is administrative in nature. 'Cause it's about you and me, for example. Permissions... Here we are talking mainly about the Warsaw lands that have been nationalised. We have dealt with the situation that many of these properties were claimed by the owners or heirs of these owners, and the possibility or impossibility of reimbursement was ruled administratively. Many times administrative decisions to refuse perpetual use have been affected even after several decades in administrative proceedings. And an administrative decision stating e.g. In principle, the nullity of such a decree is the source of damage to those owners or their heirs. And the common courts were really tasked with determining the amount of compensation properly. And issues related to the entitlement to these properties themselves are settled in administrative mode. Because here we have to remember that this is an important distinction between competences. Thus, the role of the general court and the Supreme Court was limited from this point of view. It was actually related to the consequences of the faulty decisions that were issued in administrative mode. As far as reprivatisation is concerned, it is, of course, quite wide, because there are various problems involved. Of course, there was a problem with the interpretation of the provisions of the Warsaw Land Decree itself. But this problem has been in place for many years, so here it would be difficult for me to point out, apart from this quoted ruling of seven judges, some particular category of these cases. The conclusion is that, I believe, the courts are unable to deal with this problem. I mean. suing these decisions administratively and then trying to claim compensation is something that should not be an essential way of solving this problem. Therefore, among others. in this report, there is such a statement that some action by the legislator should be expected here. Well, that's the mode that's possible. The court procedure is not satisfactory for anyone. Neither for those who are trying to obtain compensation on a judicial basis, nor for the State Treasury. So, I think the only reasonable solution here would be some reaction from the legislator. We had such a good example with the claims of Wużan. There was a similar situation, for many years there have been a lot of proceedings relating to the granting of compensation for lost property. And as long as there was no statutory regulation, it was a serious problem for the judiciary. It was only the emergence of the relevant provisions that really solved this problem. So it seems to me that, in certain situations, courts are some sort of rescue plan, but they will never solve this problem, because Once again, I would like to stress this. The court needs a finding of a breach of law, that is, the failure of an administrative decision, and that is not always possible. If this is not the case, those who have lost their property do not actually have the right way to claim. Here there are various constructions connected e.g. with a legislative omission by the legislator and an attempt to claim compensation for this, but these are very complex, difficult legal structures. It seems to me that the only sensible solution would be to adopt the appropriate rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u107	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to ask you about possible real threats as regards the quality of the Supreme Court ruling, in the context of staff deficits, as well as the establishment of new chambers, in particular the Disciplinary Chamber, to which regional courts may be delegated. With all due respect to the judges of the regional courts, it is difficult to agree with the statement made by Mr Piebiak, the Vice Minister of Justice, who said that there is no difference between the judge of the district court and the Supreme Court judge. The second issue that threatens to reduce the quality of the ruling is the institution of an emergency complaint. For the time being, there are few complaints and we do not know how this will develop, but in these cases the jury will take part in the ruling, who, as we know, will not be particularly concerned with high-quality case law in connection with the judgment at this level of abstractity and because of the lack of knowledge of the law. How do you assess these threats? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u108	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u109	As far as the issue of the possibility of sending judges to the Disciplinary Chamber is concerned, I have already said that the Supreme Court has used this possibility, but we have had such practice that we have asked for such delegations in relation to the judges of appeals, given the promotional perspective. The idea was that such distinguished judges should be subject to some real control regarding the work of the Supreme Court. This has always been about people who have already had very serious professional experience. Of course, the judge of the district court This is also the judge, as much as possible, but experience and a certain status also determine what position he is in. Here maybe it's not even so much about any reservations, e.g. As far as competence is concerned, I assume that any well-prepared judge can handle any case, only a certain constitutional guarantee. It seems to me that this has a much more important meaning here. The point is that each party, and so also someone who participates in disciplinary proceedings, should have a guarantee of the right to an independent court. If we take into account the competence of the Minister of Justice with regard to the judges of the general courts whom he supervises and his own powers in disciplinary proceedings, it would be possible, in my opinion, to have reservations of a systemic nature. Basically, that's how I see it when it comes to the issue of possible secondment of judges to the Disciplinary Chamber. Excuse me, Senator... [[The jury...]] Ah, jury. Well, it's a fundamental issue and, you can say, it's fundamental because... we know that the Supreme Court is, as it's said in general, above all, a court of law, so it should judge the correctness of the judgments by the courts which have delivered the contested judgments. And from this point of view, the assumption that jury participation would be a good solution... I'm not talking about the Disciplinary Chamber, because here we have a criminal procedure and we have something at least similar at first instance to judge with jury. My reservations concern the concept of jury participation in the resolution of emergency complaints, because here, however, you need to have some knowledge of the law in order to assess whether the decision of the court, which has already been final, is clearly contrary to standards, e.g. constitutionally. Here, however, legal knowledge is more important. And it seems to me that this is a rather unusual solution, I probably wouldn't be able to even point out a country that uses jurors in the Supreme Court when it comes to cases that require substantive assessment and knowledge of the law. Here you can also refer to the procedure for recruiting these jurors. I've seen fragments of conversations with candidates, they've actually quite commonly declared that they don't know each other very well... [[But they'll learn.]] There were such statements that I might learn how to become a juror. So I don't know. Whether it's from a systemic point of view is really a good idea. As for the very idea of jury involvement in the administration of justice, I have no objection. The National Judicial Council, when I was a member of it, even held conferences on the participation of citizens in the administration of justice. I would like to stress that it is not at all about questioning the idea of citizens' participation. I think it would even be possible to expand the catalogue of cases in which people without legal education could participate. We remember that there was also a discussion on the concept of judges of peace... We are dealing with such a situation that, indeed, the catalogue of those cases in which jurors rule is very narrow, so we can of course think about it, because it is important because it strengthens public confidence in the justice system. There are international, objective studies which indicate that courts are better received if citizens are involved in the prosecution of judgments, there is greater confidence in such a court, and such solutions can be considered. But I don't think the idea of bringing jurors to the Supreme Court is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Aleksander Pociej is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As luck would have it, I can fully confirm the words of the president. I also took part in these meetings on the need to extend the catalogue of cases where the jury will rule in common courts, and it is indeed a very good request, and unfortunately the rulers somehow do not want to go in this direction at all. And my question. There was this group, and I don't remember how many candidates for the Supreme Court who were positively consulted by the previous National Judicial Council. Their candidacy has been sent to the President. And this group has been suspended for two years, despite the fact that the Supreme Court has already had problems with not having a dozen jobs. Do you know what's going on in this case? Do you know this case, and is there anything going on? I had the last information about it about a few months ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u112	I said here that the vacant posts in the Supreme Court in 2017 appeared in quite a large number. Now I'm trying to remember what it looked like when it comes to dates... It seems to me that the proceedings before the National Judicial Council concerning 4 vacant posts to the Criminal Chamber probably ended in May 2017 and of these 4 candidates, the President has appointed 2 judges so far. Well, we've got a situation that's two years away, and there's still no decision on two candidates. 4 vacancies were also in the case of the Civil Chamber. This is where these posts were filled out... and the National Judicial Council's candidacy and the election of those who were presented to the President took place a little later. It seems to me that in the case of one person to the Civil Chamber it was about July, August, in the case of another person. September, I think... Two more people were in early 2018. Out of these 4 candidates put forward by the National Judicial Council to appoint judges in the Civil Chamber, no one has yet been appointed. And there's also no president's decision to do anything about it, so these people are in some kind of suspension. In the case of judges, the situation is a little easier, because it is about judges of appeals courts who simply continue to work in their courts. I know that in the case of at least one candidate who's a professor and ran a law firm... He's been in a difficult situation because he's had to give up his counseling or counseling activity, and he's been suspended for over a year. He cannot pursue his profession and at the same time does not have the President's decision as to his fate. So that in this case this situation is indeed particularly difficult. As I say, from the point of view of the needs of the Supreme Court in such a situation, when we have a large number of cases remaining to be settled, the absence of a decision to appoint these people makes them unable to work, and every judge, you can say, would be very useful in terms of the need for judgment. The situation is still so complex that, as I said earlier, in 2018 the Minister failed to take into account requests for the delegation of judges to appeal courts to adjudicate temporarily in the Supreme Court. This staff gap was particularly acute, among others. because these judges were not appointed in such a way that I would say, a customary term.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u114	Judge! Mr. President! The speed of court work, of course, depends not only on the proceedings themselves, but on the judges themselves. It also depends on the work of the administrative staff of the courts. We all know that there's very little money in this environment. We also know that these employees use IT technologies that require training and are not adequately damaged, are not properly prepared by those who introduce these IT systems. And finally, we also know that there is a lot of leaving this professional group. Therefore, there are vacancies and there is too much work burden on those who remain there. I would like to ask something that is, however, fundamental to the objectivity of the work of the Polish judiciary, and which depends to a large extent on the use of the IT technology used. This is about random assignment of cases. What's it like with this random assignment right now? Is this system working or not? Well, what are his prospects? However, it is in an attempt on the independence of the judiciary that is even more significant, because if there was no random assignment of cases, then politically filling the positions of presidents and vice-presidents in common courts would mean that we are sentenced to politically dependent courts. What's with the random assignment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u116	With regard to the situation of administrative staff in all courts, it is generally bad, as are other budget workers, because for many years the salaries have been frozen and they are actually, you can say, relatively small, e.g. for the national average. This, of course, discourages some workers from doing this job, which is certainly demanding and responsible, and in some courts, where the impact of cases is very high, also requires a lot of work. She is wrongly rewarded in the assessment of these people. We've seen protests by law enforcement workers demanding wage increases. So I think that this problem has sounded for a long time, it really should be solved by now. As for the random assignment of cases, I must say that he does not function in the Supreme Court, so I do not have direct contact with the functioning of this system, but because I have contacts with judges of various courts and I read newspapers on this issue also write about it, so I can say that there are quite serious reservations about the functioning of this system, because the model of assigning cases is not quite clear, it is not very clear on what basis It's happening. All of this is at the disposal of the Minister of Justice, who does not reveal the mechanism for allocating cases. Well, you hear there are situations that judges get, for example. In turn, many multi-volume cases, and their colleagues do not draw any cases for a long time. If such information is heard quite commonly, it seems that this system is not working well. We must also look at this issue differently with regard to the Court of First Instance. Where the courts rule on a single person and where we deal with multi-members. Well, here's some pretty clear information from the Boards of Appeal that it makes their work very difficult. Of course, there is also the question of assessing the idea itself, but also the implementation of the idea. I don't have detailed information, so it's hard for me to say. I can say that there are certainly a lot of serious reservations about the functioning of this system. He replaced the assignment of cases on the principle of order of influence and in general as a system is of course much more complicated. But I can say that today a regulation of the President amending the Rules of the Supreme Court has been issued, where a very important change has been made with regard to the allocation of cases to judges in the Supreme Court. So far, we have had such a regulation that the President in charge of the Chamber's work has decided on the dates of meetings, submissions and assignment of cases. There is now such a record that an alphabetical list of judges is to be created and cases are to be assigned according to the order of influence. Except I'm not in a position to fully examine what the intention of this regulation is, but I think it will make the Supreme Court's work very difficult, because there is talk of the influence of cases. to the Civil Chamber, and in fact cases affect by territorial division up to 5 departments. So that I do not really imagine how this assignment would take place from the technical point of view, and how these matters will later be designated for each composition. Now, what's the matter? That's how I understand it. It will be recognised and when, will be decided not by the president, not by the head of the department, but by the chairman of the composition, and the chairman of the composition is to be the oldest in the composition of the judge, unless the composition is elected by another chairman. It seems to me that this will cause very serious difficulties in the functioning of the Supreme Court. We're going to have another very serious problem, because the basic category of cases that the Supreme Court recognizes, for example. in the Civil Chamber, it includes cassation complaints and long-term complaints, which require pre-trial proceedings, and there are no three-person warehouses at all. So that I can't really imagine how it's gonna actually work. Of course, I can say here that this change has not been consulted in any way with the Supreme Court, so that this is a complete surprise for us. The date of entry into force of this Regulation is 7 days. This deadline is not excessive as regards the possibility of examining and preparing for their application. It is probably not possible to determine cases that have already been brought in by that date, so I do not know how this random allocation would work on those cases which had been brought in before the entry into force of the Regulation, and yet its provisions on these matters will also apply. There are many interesting ideas there, but I'm afraid they will be another source of lengthening the time of recognition in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u117	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask a question concerning the preliminary questions addressed to the Court of Justice of the European Union. There, the Supreme Court questions the legality of the choice of members, judges and members of the National Judicial Council, whether the choice is in line with the Constitution and European standards. I have such a question for you, Mr. President. How would you try to define these European standards? Are they uniform for the National Judicial Council in Europe? This is a pretty serious problem. I think you will agree with me, Mr President, that addressing these questions will have serious consequences for other countries as well. I'll remind you, for example. In the Portuguese Council of the judiciary, the majority have no judges, and the Spanish Council of the judiciary elects a parliament of 21 members, it is appointed by Parliament. So it will be like a pattern for European judicial councils as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u119	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u120	I agree with this statement that this will perhaps be one of the most important decisions that the Court of Justice of the European Union can give and that it is facing a serious problem. Indeed, the systems for appointing judges in individual countries are not the same and in many countries there is no judicial council at all. But the European standard is that whatever the model is in a particular country, it should guarantee the independence of the judge when he is appointed. And, of course, it seems to me that in these categories the Court of Justice of the European Union will assess these questions. I do not rule out such a position either: if there is a specific model in a country, the Court may say that this particular model in that country should guarantee such appointment of a judge so that there is no doubt about its impartiality later. We are talking about a model, like a system model, which is very important, but it seems to me that the Court will take into account the general values that relate to the rule of law, and this will possibly lead to some standard regarding the appointment of judges or some elements that are necessary and must be preserved. And this is important in the context of e.g. The Charter of Fundamental Rights, where it is said that the judge who is to be appointed, is to ensure that the case is dealt with impartially. The party that is in court should feel that this judge is an independent person. It seems to me, therefore, that the fundamental issue is whether a specific method of appointing judges can influence the assessment of their independent position. I do not rule out that in this context The Court will speak, perhaps it will. But, as I say, these are just certain speculations and assumptions, because we are at such a stage that the question has been asked, there is a certain question raised, and what the Court's answer will be, that is, as I say, the question of the Court's own decision. We do not even know whether the Court will answer all these questions. Because he can think he won't answer them, or he can only answer partially. And if he answers... In fact, it is only from the ruling that we will find out what the position will be. I am just saying that the issue is actually very complicated because there is no uniform model here. But we can say that there have already been statements from the bodies of the Council of Europe or of the European Union that if a country decides to introduce a specific model and according to this model, the appointment of judges is to be attended by an independent body, the standard looks like this: this body is to be composed of at least half of judges and should ensure that judges can be appointed without any influence on the executive and legislative authority. So there is a standard in this case, but it exists in the case of those countries that have decided to set up an organ such as our National Judicial Council. So it seems to me that, theoretically, the answer may also be this: if such a model of the judicial council exists in a particular country, then the appointment of the members of this judicial council should be in line with the standard established. Will the TSUE address e.g. to constitutional regulation in any way? It is difficult for me to discuss this too. But it seems to me that if a particular model in a particular country is functioning and there is a constitutional regulation in this regard, it would probably be difficult to leave it out of the way. However, as I say, it is only a certain speculation, because we are at such a stage that everything is really in the hands of the Court, and he has not said anything about it at all, except that he has rather quickly appointed a hearing, considering the matter to be urgent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u121	Thank you. Mr. President, I have a question for you. As far as the Supreme Court employees are concerned, are the rates uniform for the Supreme Court and universal courts, or do you have the possibility to make autonomous decisions here?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u122	It's hard for me to answer that question closely. I think they're different, or at least they might be different. The Supreme Court has its own budget, so it is in a different situation than the common courts. They have a common budget, which is properly distributed by the Minister to individual courts. The Supreme Court has its own budget in which it has the resources. However, I can say that the Supreme Court has heard such voices from employees, that their wages have not changed for many years, and if they take into account, for example. inflation, it can actually be said that they are really lower. The judges' assistants in the Supreme Court put forward such a position in which they refer to the level of remuneration of assistants in common courts and show that they have lower rates than assistants in common courts. This problem, too, would require a solution. Everything actually depends, or maybe largely, on the level of budgetary resources that have been allocated. Since the planned budget of the Supreme Court has been cut pretty hard, I think there will be problems. And budget expenditure is, as it were, above average, because there is still a need for organizational action related to the establishment of these two new chambers in the Supreme Court. So the situation doesn't look good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u123	And tell me, Mr. President, what the budget looks like. What did it look like in 2017 compared to the 2016 budget, what does it look like in 2018 compared to the previous year's budget and what does it look like in the current year? [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: If I had to...]] No, no... [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski:...to reach out to some data because I can't...]] But in general, does it increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u124	I think it's increasing in general, but I can say that the vast majority of spending in the budget is spending. It's for the pay of judges and employees. I think they were calculated this way, if I remember that it was an increase by inflation, because I guess that was the general assumption. Thus, if this mechanism is commonly used there, it would indicate that the budget must grow nominally. However, since additional resources were already planned in the previous budget for the establishment of these two new chambers, I am not now able to say responsibly whether or not. any expenditure in kind is greater in this planned or already adopted budget for 2019 or not. However, as I recall, in the position concerning the employment of new assistants and probably members of the Office of Studies and Analysis there was a reduction of the budget by PLN 9 million. This will have some significance for the operation of at least some of the workers. Because here it should be emphasized that for the first time in the bill there is such a record that the assistant can only be assigned to one judge. Therefore, the assumption should be that in that case each judge should have an assistant for his or her needs, and the reality is that assistants are much less than judges. So it seems to me that, with such a statutory regulation, there should be measures to increase the number of assistants. This budget is currently being analysed in terms of the financial possibilities of the Supreme Court, because it has been adopted relatively recently, so it would be difficult for me to tell what specific actions are planned. In a few moments, there will probably be some proposals and perhaps some funds can be made to raise wages for administrative staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u125	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Mr. President. [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Yeah, and now... now... [[Voice from the Chamber: Voices in the discussion.]] Oh, yes, of course. [[I think you're suspended by a marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I inform you that the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, has undertaken to give a written answer to the question of Senator Zientarski. I'm opening a discussion. I'm giving myself the floor as a debater. Dear President, Thank you for the very thorough answers and such a comprehensive analysis of the year 2017, for the answers to the questions concerning the following years. The Supreme Court is an extremely important political element of the state. We have had for a long time, for more than two years, the opportunity to speak in the case of the Supreme Court, the situation that has arisen around the Supreme Court, and in general in the case of the judiciary, the National Judicial Council. Part of the report concerns this period. I would also like to say that we discussed here eight times about amending the Supreme Court Act. And it started reminding me, even though the situation was really very serious and it's still serious, although the tension with the Supreme Court has been a little off... these eight-fold proposals for parliamentary laws, although it is known that they were government laws, started to remind me of the game of cat and mouse. This situation was devastating. rule of law in Poland. And the Supreme Court is an institution that upholds the rule of law. And I would like to thank the President, the President and all the Supreme Court judges for the fact that you have stood by the rule of law all the time and have not bowed to accusations, actions that have been illegal, although carried out within the framework of legislative activities. After all, the shortening of the term of office of the President of the Supreme Court, the term of office which is enshrined in the Constitution, the termination of this term for me, a non-specialist, was an obvious violation of the Constitution. And no excuses for explaining this case could explain it. So I would like to thank the judges of the Supreme Court, but also the judges of the general courts, for taking the floor in this matter, even though they were accused of defending the rule of law and taking the floor on this matter being a political activity. December 2017 The decision to retire all judges who had completed sixty-five years of age, including the President of the Supreme Court, obviously caused the disorganization of this court, led to an uproar of confidence in this court. Such a discussion, such doubts raised by the executive authority, including by the President, undermined the confidence in the legal system at all. It's a good thing you guys didn't cave in, even though it was legal, and it was media. If you were in a completely different situation, the Supreme Court would no longer be an independent court and the judges would lose their independence. If we retreat once, if the judges retreat once in such a situation, it is known that this independence will not be regained. Mr President, I would like to say that this situation has led, in 2018, as you said, to a 50% increase in the backlog of your chamber. A situation where the Supreme Court judges are not appointed, and there are several cases where the President does not decide, does not indicate whether or not he will appoint these judges... It indicates that there are no deadlines. Okay, there are no deadlines, but it's customary, it's legal. If there's a record that he's calling... Yes, it can be written that he's calling immediately or that he's calling... There's a legal record that he's pleading, which means it's done at a time where there's no suspicion of excessive delay, of sabotage. At the moment, there are 800 vacant places in common courts. The common courts have extended the examination of cases, extended the time taken to deal with cases, and this is the basis for the functioning of the justice system, i.e., the public's assessment of whether this justice system works well or does not function well. If there's a dragging of cases, and the dragging of cases is caused by vacancies, by not planting seats... Well, someone's responsible, and it's not like responsibility is just theoretical. The report also states that the matter considered by the Supreme Court is often due to the poor quality of the law created, that the change of this law is often temporary and far from professionalism. The elimination of low-quality legislation should be done primarily by a prudent and precise amendment which respects the basic principles of legislative and legislative technology. That's what we've been talking about many times, and what's going on with day-to-day laws, night-to-night laws. We have pointed out that this is an unacceptable practice which causes us to adopt a lame, indeterminate law in this House. And then there's the regulation... Well, even if it's a decree by the Minister of Justice on the order of assignment of cases in the Supreme Court, which hasn't been consulted at all with the Supreme Court and which raises many unanswered questions. I agree with the President that if you have to apply this, it will delay the case and will have to be further clarified. Well, maybe the minister will change that regulation. [[Voice from the room: President.]] Oh, the president. Well, maybe the president will change that regulation. Or maybe you'll have to sort it out with your own resolutions. In any case, what is supposed to improve the situation must not be allowed and, as I understand it, to remove certain bias charges, has caused the Supreme Court to be blocked. Mr President, I would like to say that thanks to the Supreme Court judges, we are still in a country where we may have doubts. as regards the rule of law, but which is still law-abiding, and it is the Supreme Court that upholds that law. So at the end of the day, I want to thank you again. I also want to say that there is some satisfaction, and that is also your satisfaction, because the government had to withdraw from the changes that destroyed the Supreme Court. This situation, in which the last amendment of the Act eliminates all previous changes and restores the previous state, I think, is a real satisfaction for all of us. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The problem of case law, the position of the Supreme Court is the subject of a river, there is much to be said about it. I, of course, attach myself to the words of appreciation, of great appreciation, and give my thanks to the President of the Supreme Court and also to the general courts. Well, there's judican supervision, and the Supreme Court is at the top of the judiciary. Many words have been said in this Chamber, in this pulpit, in the matter of the Supreme Court. It was a marathon. We have presented arguments for which there have been serious academic expertise of outstanding constitutionalists and the Venice Commission. We have seen the total disregard of any authority by government representatives who have referred this on behalf of a group of Members. They said: this is not our project, but we support it, so we will present it here and defend it. In fact, we were laughed at at at later committee meetings with ridiculous laughter. At a time when we consistently said that the first president of the Supreme Court was still the first president of the Supreme Court, he was laughing, he was laughing. He who laughs last laughs laughs. So? And you made a bill that made it clear that the expulsion of the judges wasn't an act. Besides, this is a completely unnecessary situation, as the president just said. She gives rise to complications related to briefings, etc., etc. I am no longer talking about the fact that the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, confirmed later, as well as this guarantee, was unambiguous and was... that is what law professionals say. Not the Minister of Justice and his, so to speak, the surroundings, but serious specialists say it is an independent legal basis. Well, we're in Europe. It's time to get used to it. I therefore thank you very much for what the President said in the report. Well, in 2017 you joined... These are not only national or European institutions, but also institutions related to questions for a preliminary ruling. We would like to remind you that in 2017 what the President was talking about here... It's a normal thing. That's not enough. It's a judge's duty. If he has doubts, he must ask the European Court with such a question. European, that is, our own, because we are in Europe. This should be recalled. And that's why we had no doubts. It's you guys... I'm talking to the other side, to the Senators of the PiS, to all those who signed these disgraceful proposals. We had no doubt that these decisions were contrary to the Constitution. Our constitution clearly states how the National Judicial Council should be constructed, which is supposed to guarantee the independence of the courts. Well, if you haven't even fulfilled the obligation of your own right, which you yourself have created. The obligation to present the persons who have signed the candidates' applications What's to talk about here, ladies and gentlemen? It's even your own laws that you invented... You couldn't say that, you couldn't check it out formally, because you just hid those judges. The issue referred to in the report is the issue of the delegation of judges. It's a very important matter. Please note that the delegation in normal judiciary was a form of conduct, of overcoming degrees in the judicial career. So first, the district judge sent to the district court checked out, got a good opinion and went to the district court, then he was posted, if he stood up, to the appeal court, and then the best of the appeals were posted to the Supreme Court, checked out and got nominated. It was a normal career. It's been blocked. In 2018, totally, and in 2017... This is not just a hit on the possibility, in the efficiency of the Supreme Court, but also a challenge to a normal career and just a career verification by an independent National Judicial Council. But you've introduced this National Judicial Council, set up by a minister who's gonna be or is he just His instrument. It's hard to talk about independence here. It's obvious to everyone. That's right, and we'll always say it. And I think it's gonna be over soon. The issue of chambers, ladies and gentlemen, for example, chambers of complaint. We heard what the president said. There are 20 judges in this chamber, not recognized... Well, one or two cases were identified. Several cases have been brought in, while others have several dozen cases in the Decernate. Ladies and gentlemen, how can it work normally? Supreme Court? I'm not talking about the Disciplinary Chamber's judges making 40% more money. more than prominent representatives of science and law sitting in the Civil Chamber, in the Penalty Chamber, who followed a normal career, not with political support. Political support discredits the judge. It should be obvious to everyone. And what, is this House supposed to recognize disciplinary action against lawyers? I remember because I was at that time, in a state of war, when many lawyers, among others. Also sleep. Jan Olszewski or Force-Nowicki, defending at that time very bravely... Well, they didn't have disciplinary action at war. Those are the facts. So that some conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, come to their own conclusion. I believe that the Supreme Court, as Marshal Borusewicz said just now, stood at the level of the task. He showed the pattern of the judge's independence. Without judicial independence there will be no independence, without independence there is no right to court, and without the right to court there is no rule of law. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Time's up, Senator.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u127	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Of course, I must join these words of my colleagues, to thank all the judges for the fact that, despite such organized sting, comparable to what led to the tragedy in Gdansk, you did not bow down. The damage that this sting has caused us will be done for years, because the presentation of the third power in this light among the citizens of less experts in assessing reality must have led to such a feeling that you are a group of people who should not be where they are. Of course it's a lie. And for your endurance, you deserve a great deal of respect. 3 years of law and justice play with justice and this report that we have heard today is shocking. I have the impression that when we listened to these clichés, which other ministers of justice who came here to justify their volts concerning the Supreme Court, the National Courthouse Council, the Constitutional Tribunal... I haven't once seen any reflection on the nature of the problem except for these clichés, because this problem, of course, exists, the problem of justice and its actions, so that the citizen has a sense of justice. Of course we know that this is not entirely possible, because in court we always have 2 sides and it is always that one wins, and then automatically the other party claims that there is no justice. But, of course, there were areas where we could do better. Not one of these reforms, not one of them, was directed at an ordinary man. They were directed at taking over the only area that was not under party control. And the fact that it was a mess, not fixing the law, is for us today, was all the time... But now we're slowly showing up like on a platter. You have to look at it as a whole. For three years in this House, it has been a custom that we work at night, that we get laws of the state that are overturning the order that has been making a mess. We get them a few hours before we pass. We don't have time to think about them. Very often we have not even been able to obtain our internal opinions, and such changes, systemic changes sometimes require opinions supported by years of work of such a body as for example. The Legislative Board. That wasn't here at all. And as a consequence of that were changes, seven times the Supreme Court Act was amended and the same ministers came and came with the same ideas that they had rejected before. No reflection at all. Complete destruction of the National Attorney's Council. This is a completely facade organ that's gathered, I don't know, maybe six times. National Judicial Council... I told you today, or actually I asked your president about the deadline, because I think it's not random, Mr President, that it's only in 2019 that you have the opportunity to talk about the pains of 2017. This is an outrage! And this is a scandal that 100% it was produced in this House. Yesterday, President Przyłębska came with a scandalous report for such an institution as for such a revolution and for such a mess as it was at the Constitutional Court. When did she get here? With the 2017 report comes now and accidentally, for some reason we have to wait until March to talk to her because no... there is no time for the Senate neither today nor tomorrow. It's a huge mess that's gonna hiccup us for years to come. You spoke to Senator Zientarski about this ridicule on the principle: is President Gersdorf president or not? Ha, ha, ha, it's not. You should have... Of course, we Poles have nothing to listen to. That must have been what Europe had to say. Like Rome, Roma locuta causa finita, you listened, our decision-makers only listened when Europe said something. Yeah, yeah, It's already in the context of getting out of your knees. Congratulations. This is a wonderful uprising from the knees. And you'll see that the same thing is gonna be about making fun of what we say about understudy judges at the Constitutional Court. It'll be exactly the same. Decisions given over the years in which they have taken part, even if they are good and in accordance with legal order, will have to be reversed. [[Time's up.]] Can I use five minutes? [[Next...]] The extra ones. [[No one else has signed up for you but the senator, so be my guest.]] Literally two sentences, I'd like to finish. Everyone in this room is responsible for how and for what he voted for, and I know that in the end there is no... If you'd been digging into construction law, engineering... [[The building would fall on its head.]] ...then it would be easy to say it and as it was in Zorbie's Greek to dance and say: boss, what a beautiful disaster. Here, if we don't get some sort of sobering and slowing down this spoil, we're gonna have a real breakdown of the whole system and the state. And that's the great responsibility you're taking on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u129	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President of the Supreme Court still like to take the floor and comment on the statements of the debaters? [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: No.]] Aren't you going to? Thank you. [[President of the Supreme Court Dariusz Zawistowski: Thank you very much. I think I've been trying to answer the questions that have been asked.]] I thank the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Supreme Court in 2017. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u130	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the first reading of the draft resolution commemorating Jan Olszewski, President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland (1930/2019) will be held today, 20 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session, in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws will take place on 14 February 2019 in room 182 at 8.30 a.m. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment and the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate at the seventy-third Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Act on Environmental Protection will be held today in room 217, 15 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-13-senat-73-1.u131	Thank you. We're adjourned until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 47]]
