ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u1	High Senate, resume your session. Please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. I would like to inform you that on 27 June 2019 the President of the National Regional Council of the Courts of Auditors provided the Senate with a report on the activities of the Regional Courts of Auditors and the implementation of the budget by local government units in 2018. It is included in print No 1216. On 3 July 2019 a report was sent to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Commission took note of the report and informed me at its meeting on 9 July 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the second agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and be quiet. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Father Józef Maria Bocheński. Welcome to all the guests here. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Dr. Jan Parys, co-worker of Father Józef Maria Bocheński, Martyna Bilińska-Parys, gentlemen... Fathers Mirosław Sander, Prior, Dominican, and Jarosław Krawiec, also Dominican. I welcome all of you and the entire delegation very warmly. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 1310, and the report is published in print No. 1310 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u2	Thank you very much, Marshal. It was my honor and honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 with the Year of Father Józef Maria Bochenski Senator's printing No 1310 S. The Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 to the Legislative Commission on 24 September 2019 with the Year of Father Józef Maria Bocheński to consider it at first reading. At its meeting on 25 September 2019, the Commission examined, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of a single draft resolution annexed to it. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Father Józef Maria Bocheński. The 25th anniversary of the death of Father Józef Maria Bocheński is held on February 8, 2020. Among Polish scholars he occupies a unique place. He represents the most important Polish philosophical school, called Lviv-Warsaw. He was born on August 30, 1902 in Chuszów. He studied law at the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv, economics at the University of Poznan, philosophy in Friburg, theology in Rome. In 1926 he joined the seminary and then to the Order of Ecclesiastes. Dominica. In the years 1934-1940 he was a professor of logic in Angelicum, Rome. He habilized from logic in 1938 at the Jagiellonian University. Since 1945, he was a professor at the University of Friburg, where he served as a rector in 1964. He fought during the wars in 1920 and 1939. As a lieutenant colonel, he served as a chaplain in the Second Corps of General Władysław Anders (a de virtute militari. The outline of military ethics, Cracow 1993). He was in the battle of Monte. Cassino. After the war, Fr Bocheński remained in exile. He's known in the world as a supporter of analytical philosophy. He attempted to modernise tomism by means of formal logic (the logic of religion, Warsaw 1990, the essence and existence of God, 1993). His works have been published in over a million copies in many countries, which is very rare in the case of philosophers. A separate part of the o. The scientific analyses of Marxism-Leninism are Bocheński's (Lewica, religion, sovietology, Warsaw 1996). In the West he was considered the chief expert in philosophical problems of Marxism, he was also the founder of the Institute of Eastern Europe and the publisher of more than 50 volumes of monographs in the series Bibliography of works o. Bocheński has over 100 books, of which more than 20 have been translated into Polish. All his life he defended the truths of faith, the laws of logic and supported Poles fighting for freedom. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes the year 2020 as the Year of Father Joseph Mary Bocheński, to pay tribute to this outstanding scientist, priest and patriot on the 25th anniversary of his death. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to ask your senators, the High House, to adopt the proposed resolution establishing the year 2020 by the Year of Father Joseph Mary Bochenski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jan Zarin. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of Father Józef Maria Bochenski's Year 2020. Who's in favour? [[Conversations from the room]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 58 senators voted, 57 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of Father Józef Maria Bochenski's year 2020. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Congratulations to the initiators. Congratulations to the applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, next year we will celebrate as the Year of Father Joseph Mary Bocheński thanks to your decision, the decision of the High Senate. Thank you very much to the guests who accompanied us during the vote. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the third agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by St. John Paul's Year II. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 1311, and the committee's report In print No 1311 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present to you the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of St.John Paul II - one of the most important, outstanding figures that have passed through the history of Poland and probably the most outstanding in the 20th century. I would just like to remind you that the Polish Sejm also made the same provision in an appropriate resolution, establishing the year 2020 as St. John Paul's Year II. The occasion is obvious - the centenary of the birth of the Holy Pope. Many institutions, both state and ecclesiastical, are preparing to celebrate the Holy Year of John Paul II, including the Holy See. It will surely be the year of the Pope visible in all parts of the world. It seems quite obvious that we, too, as Senate, should enter into this sequence of expected events celebrating the character of St. John Paul II. The draft resolution is as follows... May I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2020 of St. John Paul's Year II. On 18 May 1920 Karol Wojtyla was born in Wadowice Cracow Metropolitan, Cardinal, Holy Father, St. John Paul II. Pope Pole takes a special place in our history. Raised in Polish piety, devoted to Our Lady, he was aware of the desires of his people, he knew his past and inalienable needs: Everywhere I emphasize my Polish origin It's hard not to! He said... I took with me the whole Polish history, culture, experience, language It's a permanent legacy. Allows me to open up to a multitude of peoples and nations in the community of the universal Church. His election to the Capital of Peter on 16 October 1978, and then the First Pilgrimage to the Homeland of June 1979, constituted a breakthrough in the history of a nation aiming from a state of captivity to freedom. The Pope liberated in us the energy leading to the rise in August 1980 of the great movement of Solidarity, and the subsequent pilgrimages of 1983 and 1987 were milestones leading to Poland's regaining independence. It's against the Communists at the time. As the Pope of Slavs from the beginning of his pontificate John Paul II sought the right of nations tamed by the Soviet Union to freedom, preaching this, he became one of the main architects of the turn of 1989, when after the fall of the Iron Curtain, independent states began to form throughout Central and Eastern Europe. After 1989, St. John Paul II continued the great evangelization of free people, taught Poles and the community of the whole world not to throw away freedom, and based their lives on values supporting the family and human rights, including the right to live from conception to natural death. He proclaimed the civilization of life, opposing it to the civilization of death, seeing threatening humanity, and expanding world ideologies hostile to man. The Pope also became a advocate of dialogue between the followers of all religions, as well as a permanent pilgrim visiting people in remote corners of the world, the Pope close to another man. During his pontificate he visited 129 countries. He beatified 1340 people, canonized 483, including St. Faustina Kowalska, intercessor of Divine Mercy. The dialogue with man was also conducted through numerous encyclicals. As an intellectual, philosopher and poet, but also an actor, he had perfect contact with people from the world of science, culture and art, and at the same time he came with his teaching as a pilgrim and a tourist, a mountain lover, to a young generation who had a unique love for him. He set up World Youth Days. The young people of the world also accompanied him in the last moments of earthly life: "I have searched for you, and now you have come to me, and I thank you for that, and he spoke on his deathbed. On 13 May 1981, the pope was seriously wounded by the assassination of a Turkish terrorist; to this day, they have not been tried by the perpetrator of this crime. The Pope As he said he would. Our Lady saved us. He died in 2005 after one of the longest pontificates, showing the value and dignity of life in suffering and old age. He died on Saturday 2 April 2005, at 21.37 p.m. During the Roman funeral celebrations on April 8, 2005, millions of faithful, including several hundred thousand Poles, 200 government delegations, kings and heads of government, representatives of the world's most important religions, were saying goodbye to him. Millions of believers gathered in churches all over the world, followed funerals on television, gathered in squares, said goodbye to the Pope with a common prayer. John Paul II was beatified on 1 May 2011 and on 27 April 2014 he was canonized. St. John Paul II went to the Father's House, but, as we believe, he intercedes for us daily and blesses us from heaven, reminding us of his message: "Do not be afraid!" Gratitude for the gift of the pontificate of the pope Pole Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term asks for the establishment of the year 2020 of St. John Paul's Year II. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That is the text of this resolution. It seems obvious, so I shouldn't even say it, but of course I will say that the Legislative Commission adopted this text unanimously, unanimously, after amendments. There seems to be no alternative to such a vote in the High House either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u5	Thank you, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is also Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the fourth agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 1312, and the report I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This time I will present the report of the Legislative Commission, which met at its meeting on 25 September 2019 and examined at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Of course, I ask very much, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, which unanimously adopted this attached draft resolution, for its adoption also at our present sitting. The project concerns an event which will undoubtedly be celebrated by all the most important institutions of the Polish state, both by the President, the Sejm and the Senate, as well as by the Polish Government. Undoubtedly, it will also be celebrated by the Polish Army Museum in the territory of the Warsaw Battle, Ossów, Radzymin, in many other places. As it is easy to guess, the Year of the Battle of Warsaw will be an event that should, as it were, cross the borders of the Polish state, because the winners of the Battle, or Poles, as we know It's not a slogan, it's a historical reality. They saved Europe from the flood of Bolshevism. Hence it seems that we, as Senate, should see the reality of the year 2020 in the perspective of the celebration of the century of the Battle of Warsaw. The text of the proposed resolution is as follows. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. Born in 1918 Poland still had to fight for its territorial form for a long time. Struggles for borders on all fronts were also accompanied by war against the enemy, who intended to take away not only Polish territories, but also freedom and independence. In the summer of 1920 there was a threat of loss of statehood acquired after 123 years of captivity over Poland. In August 1920, we fought a battle on the prefields of Warsaw, which went into history as a miracle on the Vistula River and on the 18th. A revolutionary battle in the history of the world. Bolshevik Russia, and its multimillion-dollar army, invaded Poland to impose ideology and practice of communism on Europe after the death of your Poland. The acquisition of the Polish capital was to be the next stage of the permanent revolution, which was to cover the entire Old Continent. Chief Chief Józef Piłsudski, Chief of Staff of the Polish Army General Tadeusz Jordan-Rozwadowski, Commander of the Volunteer Army General Józef Haller, officers and soldiers supported by the civil authorities of the state with Prime Minister Vincent Witos and the Council of State Defence, the population of the capital and the whole state All of them, supported also by allies, stood united to fight, testifying to the universal attachment of Poles to their country and the desire to defend European civilization based on the achievements of Christianity and the self-determination of democratic nations. 100 years ago the Polish-Bolshevik front established on the Vistula River was several hundred kilometers long, followed by the approaching army of Polish communists who were to take power in Warsaw. On 14 August, bringing help to the wounded and uplifting the fighting, Fr. Ignacy Skorupka, who died at Ossow. In the same days, until August 17th, soldiers at Radzymin fought fiercely against the Bolsheviks, and the city passed from hand to hand. In the end, it was captured by Poles. The measure of sacrifice was the death of Capt. Stefan Pogonowski, who led his Kaniowski Rifles on 15 August to battle and thus closed the entrance to the capital; in Radzymin there is a war cemetery to which he pilgrimed in June 1999. II. The offensive of the hog, led personally by the Chief Leader, eventually forced the Bolsheviks to withdraw from the gates of the capital, and further pursuit of the enemy forces led to the victorious German battle of September 1920. Recalling the heroic struggle of Poles, we are especially grateful to those who have provided us with a variety of help. We remember French and American officers supporting us on the battlefield, Hungarian friends supplying us with the necessary ammunition. We also mention the apostolic nuncio Achilles Ratti (later Pope Pius XI), who did not leave the capital, praying with the people and testifying to the prayers made at Pope Benedict XV's appeal throughout Europe. Thanking Our Lady for intercession in August 1920, the Chief Leader headed the nation to Czestochowa to kneel before her Jasna Góra image. Today, on the 100th anniversary of those events, the Senate of free Poland marks the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask, of course, that we also adopt this verdict of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much, by the way, because this is the last time I give any speech in this Senate, the last time in this term of office. Thank you very much to all the senators for listening to me quite often. Because I performed here, I think, as one of the more active senators. I'll see you later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is also Senator Jan Żaryn. Does anybody have any questions like that? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Prize for Literature by Olga Tokarczuk and consider this item as item 40 of the fifth agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the fifth agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Prize to Olga Tokarczuk. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jan Rulewski. The draft is contained in print No 1333, and the committee's report In print No 1333 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! Mrs. Olga! It is not excluded, ma'am, that Mrs Olga Tokarczuk, notified by me, is watching us from Berlin at the moment. She could not come because the draft of this resolution, submitted by Senator Janek Rulewski, with the consent of Mr Marshal Karczewski, of course, was created in a very short time. I'm the rapporteur. the committee is only for regulatory reasons, Mrs Marshal, because Mr Rulewski, who is the author of the proposal, is not in one or the other committee. I therefore kindly inform you that, at the joint meeting of 18 October 2019, the two joint committees considered at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and asked for the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution. If your marshal will allow it, I'd like to... I do not know if this is in accordance with the rules, but because the applicant is Mr.Rulewski, a man extremely well deserved for Poland, a hero of our times... Would you allow Mr. Rulewski, as an applicant, to read the draft resolution? Yes, I will. There you go. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Senate Bureau! Thank you for the pleasant atmosphere and favour which accompanies one of the most important events in Poland's life, namely the adoption of this draft resolution of two committees The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Culture and Media. The extraordinary way of making it is based on two facts. Firstly, the information about this award was announced on October 10th, just a few days ago, and secondly, we are finishing our term of office, the ninth term of the Senate, and I think it is until it is asked that this Senate, this House, make the decision to adopt this resolution. I therefore go to the draft resolution itself and propose that we accept it. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of today on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Prize for literary literature to Olga Tokarczuk. On 10 October 2019 the Jury of the Swedish Academy announced that the 2018 Nobel Prize for Literature, the world's most important prize in literature, was awarded to our Rodaczka Olga Tokarczuk The fifteenth woman among over a hundred winners of this award. It is the fifth literary award, over 118 years of its award, for representatives of Poland, but for the first time it concerns a person whose fundamental part of the work was created in free Poland. The decision of the Nobel Committee was beautifully included in the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. The Nobel Prize is the result of the talent and rich creative career of Olga Tokarczuk, during which the author had already won the most important national awards (twice the Literary Prize Her books have been translated into dozens of languages. As a justification for the award, the Nobel Committee indicated that the winner presents a narrative imagination which, together with the encyclopedic passion, turns crossing borders into a separate kind of existence. The timeless meaning and message of the Book of James, the monumental and the greatest work of Olga Tokarczuk has been stressed. Literary Nobel is a proof of how much power, capable of moving readers in different countries, is contained in the prose of Tokarczuk. Olga Tokarczuk's work was also shielded and exhibited in theatres. The writer, like other Polish illustrious intellectuals, outstanding scholars, Nobel Prize winners and writers, participates actively in social life, especially in defending women's rights and democracy. The Senate of the Republic of Poland congratulates Olga Tokarczuk on international success. We acknowledge her great merits for world literature, including for the construction of the good name of Poland in the world, as well as for the growth of readership in Poland. We wish Olga Tokarczuk that her literary talent will result in new, outstanding works. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Marshal, your own word, beyond the issue of resolution. Mrs. Olga, wherever you are. Your absence is justified. Please note that the last word of the Senate belongs to literature and freedom. And the request that the Senate of the next term of office, in accordance with tradition and custom, organize this possibility. . personal handing over this resolution to her. After all, I think I have the right to grant my wish. As you know, I am ending my parliamentary work in the Senate. The joy and recognition of citizens' electoral judgments are common, including, of course, confirmation that I should not be in this Senate. But I'm not offended. I'll be the Senate ambassador. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u10	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee. I remind you that the committee's application is Senator Jan Rulewski. Do any of you have that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of you... I'd like to... Senator Bonkowski for discussion? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not vote in favour of the resolution for Mrs. Tokarczyk. I will not speak about literature because I do not know about it, but as for the last sentence that Senator Rulewski said here, that she was famous for the name of Poland, it is very debatable. She was one of several Poles who spoke very badly about Poles, saying that Poles supposedly owned slaves, that they murdered Jews and such stories. She and a lot of her kind, like the professor, I think, Gross, were Pole-eaters. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So I'm not referring here because... the Nobel Prize has been devalued lately, and they're getting it mostly... Quiet, please. All distinctions are given to people from leftist backgrounds, and... We can leave the room, we don't have to sit here. ...when someone slanders Poland, it is especially rewarded. Sleep. Czesław Miłosz was just acting like an enemy of Poles, Szymborska's Nobel Prize winner wrote odys to Stalin, and the current Nobel Prize winner spoke very badly about Poles, saying that we were enemies. Well, that's... This is unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u12	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-eighth of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. The text of the Act in print No 1328 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1328 A and 1328 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment opinion on the draft Act on the ratification of the International Convention for Control and Management of Bolt Ballast Waters and settlements, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. The Act in question consents to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of this international agreement adopted at the 2004 International Conference in London. The ratification of this Convention is supported by the fact that Poland, as a Member State of the European Union and of the International Maritime Organisation, is committed to supporting all initiatives relating to the protection of the marine environment, and we are particularly concerned about protecting the biodiversity of the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is, as you know, extremely vulnerable to the influence of various pollutions due to poor access to Atlantic waters. Ladies and gentlemen, even if this agreement is not ratified, it is in the light of Article. 3 of the Convention Polish shipowners and ship owners will still be subject to verification of compliance with its requirements, which includes: supports the adoption of the law. Poland's adoption and recommendation by the European Commission of the European Union Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region is an additional prerequisite. Of course, this convention corresponds with many other conventions signed by Poland. Therefore, a request from the Joint Committee, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure to adopt a proposed resolution by the High Chamber. The Legislative Office did not make any comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u14	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. Senator? She left for a while. [[Talking in the O.R.]] She went to the committee... The senator was just in the O.R. Let's wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. We'll have the senator back in the O.R. in a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're here, Senator. Senator, please report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u15	I'm very sorry, Mrs. Marshal, a higher power. I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, an opinion on the Law on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. Ladies and gentlemen, ratification is necessary not only for environmental reasons, in order to save the natural state of the Baltic Sea, which is a small sea. Everyone gets media coverage of closed beaches, which is due to the increasing eutrophication of waters. The Convention entered into force in 2017. This is the data from June this year, 81 countries, which is 80.76% gross tonnage of the global commercial fleet. The rapporteur's colleague has just presented the scope of this law in detail. Our committee unanimously proposes that the bill be adopted as necessary in view of the state of the Baltic Sea environment. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, please adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u16	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Grzegorz Witkowski from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping and Minister Piotr Wawrzyk from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are with us today. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you have a question for one of your ministers? There are no volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. None of you signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the ninth agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1329 and the Commission's reports In prints No 1329 A and 1329 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present a report to the Commission. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act is to agree to the President's ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg in October 2018, as in the case of the previous Act. The revised provisions of the Convention are consistent with European Union data protection law, with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. The basic principles and standards of the Convention remain unchanged, only a series of additions resulting from new technologies and practices have been introduced. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law. The law did not raise any legislative objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u18	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the Commission. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Since my honourable colleague, Senator Hamerski, has presented the legal regulation in quite detail, I will merely confine myself to the information that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously supported this regulation at its meeting on 17 October and recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u20	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Anybody want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Digitisation were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whom I have already presented, and Mr Karol Okoński from the Ministry of Digitalization, are with us today. Do any of the ministers wish to speak? I don't see any calls. Thank you. But I have to ask the senators: maybe one of your senators wants to ask a question from a place that lasts no more than a minute to one of the ministers? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. The text was included in print 1330 and the committee's reports In prints No 1330 A and No 1330 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, held on 17 October, concerning the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. Despite the passage of time, 14 countries have adopted this convention. Its main objective is to improve working conditions for people who work in an important sector of the economy, such as fishing. The Convention shall specially treat fishing vessels which are at least 24 metres in length and which remain at sea for more than 7 days and sail beyond the continental shelf and shall be subject to control by the port State to which they affect. This convention has many parts. It concerns labour matters, concerns the obligations of the owners of fishing vessels, skippers and fishermen, determines the service conditions, is the part concerning accommodation and food, also concerns medical care, health protection, social security, contains provisions on medical care on a fishing vessel, safety and health at work, including prevention of accidents on ships, refers to the obligations of States Parties to the Convention relating to compliance and enforcement of the Convention, regulates this issue in a holistic manner. Poland will be the next country to ratify this convention. By May 2019 14 countries in the world did so. At its meeting, the Commission in principle unanimously supported the ratification of this document, which is why I recommend that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u22	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 17 October, a meeting was held between the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Law on the ratification of the Convention. Most of the points have already been raised by Senator Richard Majer. I would just like to add that Convention 188, like all conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation, concerns the freedoms and civil rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and refers to matters governed by laws. The Convention does not extend or restrict the rights and freedoms set out in the Constitution, but confirms them. Consequently, it is concluded that, in the case of Convention No 188, the conditions of Article are fulfilled. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which prejudices that the ratification of a specific international agreement requires the prior consent expressed in the Act. The Commission has adopted the law unanimously and proposes that it be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u24	Senator, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Family Affairs, Labour and Social Policy and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Ministers Piotr Wawrzyk and Grzegorz Witkowski from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping are with us. Would you like to speak on the bill? No. Thank you. Do the senators want to ask the ministers questions? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the first agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up at Rome on 13 June 1976. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1331, and the Commission's reports In prints No 1331 A and 1331 B. I ask the rapporteur, Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and then the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on behalf of both committees, because I have been appointed on the Committee on Agriculture, as well as on the Committee on European Union Affairs, to present a report to the High House. No comments were made at the meetings. There has been the adoption of a law without amendments by both committees and I therefore encourage the High House to vote on it. And the purpose of this law is to agree to the notification of the agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, IFAD, drawn up in Rome on 13 June 1976, hereinafter referred to as the Agreement. Currently, the IFAD consists of 176 Member States with different levels of socio-economic development - developing countries and countries with medium and high incomes, from different regions of the world. The main objective of the IFAD action is to reduce poverty in rural areas, improve food conditions and increase food production in developing countries' IFADs by providing financial support to them under preferential conditions, either directly or through international organisations. The IFAD activities shall be financed primarily from voluntary contributions from Member States to the IFAD budget, repayment of loans, investment income and special contributions from third countries not members of the IFAD. Other sources of funding are state loans, and more and more recently, preferential loans and loans on international capital markets. The scope of activities to which Poland also wishes to join is quite extensive. I would like to remind you that we are strongly involved in international cooperation in the field of agriculture and promotion of Polish agriculture, including in particular in the transfer of Polish technologies in the agricultural sector to developing countries, in the exchange of know-how with other highly developed countries providing development aid, in access to specialized knowledge of IFAD in order to achieve national development goals, in strengthening the impact on the implementation of priority actions for global development, in increasing participation of Polish private sector entities in development processes in developing countries, among others. through infrastructure investments in agriculture and the sale of agricultural machinery and equipment, in the promotion of Polish agriculture among the countries of the United Nations system, in the employment of Polish citizens in IFAD - only nationals of the IFAD Member States can apply for employment in IFAD. Poland's accession to IFAD will consist in ratification of the agreement establishing the IFAD. The ratification of the agreement requires the prior consent expressed in the Act, in accordance with Article. 89 constitutions. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of both committees, I would like your support from the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u26	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Anybody want to ask that question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Piotr Wawrzyk and Minister... It's just... There is only Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. Thank you very much, Minister. Do any of you senators want... Mr. Jerzy Czerwinski. Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'll have a question for you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister... Microphone! Turn on the mike, please. It's on. Now. Yes? That's good. This agreement is from 1976. Why are we joining it so late and how much will Poland pay for the objectives of this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u28	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u29	At the moment, there are no payments to this fund. Why are we so late? Why not just now? As far as specifics are concerned, I'm sorry, but the Ministry of Agriculture is competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u30	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. And I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the joint examination of item forty-six and item forty-seven of the agenda: report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2018; information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the President of the Trade Union Forum. The text of the report is contained in print No 1191, and in print No 1314. The Senate Marshal sent the documents he had received to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission examined the report at its meeting on 10 November 2019 and examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal on 17 October 2019. I would like to welcome the President of the Social Dialogue Council, the President of the Trade Union Forum, Mrs Dorota Gardias. I welcome you very warmly, Madam President. I also welcome the members of the Social Dialogue Council Bureau and representatives of the government. I would ask the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mrs Dorota Gardias, to speak and to present a report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2018 and information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the President of the Trade Union Forum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for inviting me. I will try to briefly present to you the action of the Social Dialogue Council in 2018 and 2019. As you know, the Social Dialogue Council is the successor to the Tripartite Committee on Economic and Social Affairs. At the end of his presidency, President Bronisław Komorowski created a new space for tripartite social dialogue, representing social partners and the government side. An important change distinguishing the Council of Dialogue from the Tripartite Commission is the rotational leadership of representatives of each side: the workers' side, employers' side and the government side. The term of office shall be one year. As part of the Council of Dialogue, there are problem teams dealing with matters that are important for the socio-economic interest of the state. It should also be added that the Social Dialogue Council has an important role and is certainly one of the most important foundations of a democratic country which respects European standards of social dialogue. In 2018, the Social Dialogue Council undertook an important mission to build a new labour code. To this end, a codification committee was set up consisting of experts from individual organisations and academics. Despite the completion of the work, the government side has left the will to implement this important document. We regret this, although we are pleased to take this initiative. At the same time, we hope that in the future one of the government teams will choose to benefit from this work at the Social Dialogue Council table. It is worth noting the important part of the council's work. Each year, the social partners and the government negotiate macroeconomic indicators, including minimum wages and salaries in the national budgetary area. Unfortunately, despite the proposal of the employee's party, including the Trade Union Forum, to equip employees directly or indirectly employed by the Polish State with a 15% increase in salaries At least this was the proposal of our headquarters, the government did not accept the proposed increases, which inevitably translated into social turbulence in the form of protests of uniformed services and other representatives of professional groups forming the Polish public sphere. I would also like to stress that the possibility of discussing the draft budget law, the opinion of this project remains an important authority of the Council. Our joint success, or rather the challenge for the future, is to achieve a point where the comments made by the social partners will be taken into account. Other, more detailed or technical elements of the Council's work can tell you and answer questions from the director of the office, Ms Katarzyna Łażewska. Entering 2019, i.e. the presidency of the Trade Union Forum, should start with a legislative report. Its preparation was commissioned by the council staff, who had done very well. What was the purpose of the report? We wanted to see what are the key problems of the consultation process, which connects the most important institutions in the country with the Social Dialogue Council. The most important conclusion from the report is that the Board does not receive the parliamentary projects to a satisfactory degree. It is no secret that some important laws and amendments are implemented so-called. a parliamentary path only in order to avoid consultation with the representative social partners. After reading the report, I decided to report to the Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Marek Kuchciński, asking for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so that he would take into account the needs for the participation of the social partners in projects important for the socio-economic interest. We proposed a provision which would in fact assume that specific draft laws would have to be consulted with the Council of Social Dialogue, regardless of the path. Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal didn't find time for us, he didn't answer any of the many requests and our appeals. Another, still planned move of the government is to eliminate the limit of 30 times the contributions allocated to the Social Security Office. Despite the wide opposition of employers' and workers' organisations, the government has so far failed to hold a fair consultation on this matter. In conclusion, I stress that the action of the Social Dialogue Council, regardless of the friction and the moments of the heated dispute, must be based on strong conviction of the partners and the government as to whether it is right or even the need to seek the development of the trilateral formula of the Social Dialogue Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Would any of you senators like to ask the president's questions? Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome. Is there anyone else? Sign up, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u33	Thank you very much. (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few We heard a dramatic voice. I have two questions for what you said. First of all, you said that the government had withdrawn from the dialogue. What was the reason for the withdrawal from the formula adopted by President Komorowski in 2015? Secondly, what do you think would be the consequences of eliminating the 30-fold ceiling for contributions to the Social Security Office? This is what all of Poland and I would like to hear from your point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u34	There you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u35	Dear Senator, The government has not withdrawn from the dialogue. The dialogue at the moment is that the social side, on some of the points I have mentioned, presents its proposals, as agreed, for example. in an autonomous dialogue between the employer and the employer. And the government, on such important matters as I mentioned, doesn't take that into account. Most of the legislation goes, so to speak, by a message where there does not have to be a consultation on the Council. So no consultation. The same was true of the case concerning monism in uniform services. Mr Piotr Duda spoke to the President and the President prepared a presidential proposal and therefore did not come to the consultation. Another type of legislation is civil laws. This trade law was prepared on Sunday by the NSZZ.Solidarity, and this was not in the Council either. I am showing here that such important issues, concerning socio-economic issues, are being avoided in the work of the Council, which, of course, weakens it. For a year of our action... I must point out these points to you because this is not what the dialogue was supposed to look like. As I say, the intention of President Komorowski, as you rightly pointed out here by the senator... Long consultations with the social partners, with President Komorowski, the preparation of the bill by partners and administration led to the fact that we have one, not another law, but after 4 years of operation it has its obvious shortcomings, which hinder the social side from cooperating with the government. And that's why I exchanged those points. If it is announced that there will be a minimum of PLN 4,000 for 4 years, and there has been no discussion in the Council of Social Dialogue about it, and it is not convinced that as regards the increase in the minimum wage in a given year by 15% ... we don't have an understanding... These are situations where the social partners, on the one hand, are the institution of the board of dialogue, and on the other hand government proposals are not consulted or avoided by the Council of Social Dialogue. My second question is to abolish the 30-fold contribution limit. We all, the social partners, want this discussion to begin 'Cause there's still time. It's on the board of dialogue. This is dangerous and these dangers are presented by employers and trade unions. We don't think that's how you're supposed to drive... There is no dialogue on this subject on the board, and that is what I want to say. This is dangerous because a great deal of money will come out of the pockets of people and citizens, and no one talks to civil society about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u36	Senator Jan Rulewski. Then Senator Tighten up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u37	Madam President, thank you for this report, which has many elements of distance, objectivity, although your membership is well known. I'd like to ask you two questions. First. You mention union monism is such a difficult word. Do you not think that the trade unions were preferred during the dialogue? Has equality been violated? So was Convention 87 violated, in particular did the government, and thus the employer, prefer any of the trade unions? It was visible during the strike, more than the strike, the demonstration of teachers, but also in agricultural unions. And second question. Did you introduce her? I'm asking because I wasn't at the beginning of your speech. The conclusions de lege ferenda to improve the situation that you and not only you are talking about are right to say that the Constitution of the Council of Social Dialogue, which is otherwise the result of a constitutional article on the social market economy, is being avoided, if not ignored, sabotaged?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u38	There you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u39	Thank you. Mr. Senator, first of all, I would like to say that I belong to the union headquarters, which is an apartment. There we deal only with employees and that is what we focus on, on jobs, wages and conditions of decent work. As far as union monarchy is concerned, it will take a little longer, I understand. The uniformed services had the so-called. It's union monstrosity. What does that mean? And it's always been for years. He just mentioned it once, and he wanted to do it, General Kiszczak. Until now, in Poland, but also in some countries of the European Union, this monism exists in uniform services and has not bothered anyone so far. And that means that the unions in uniform services can only be in one headquarters. Because if we are talking about trade union pluralism, which, of course, the unions are always fighting for, it is different to be in professional education or nursing relationships in different headquarters, i.e. to have this trade union pluralism, and what is different for uniformed services, which are responsible for the security of the state. So far, it seemed that the uniformed service was okay with it. They stand on the exact same side. They can get together, they have headquarters... And of course they signed up for the union headquarters, and the police were one of the founders of our headquarters. So the police joined the Trade Union Forum because our headquarters is an apartment. This was therefore the least of the dangers arising from the union membership. We met with the President, the bureau of the Social Dialogue Council met, and I asked for this meeting. And during the meeting, I presented the dangers of a new solution. They do not have to occur in the case of this government or any other government, but in some case there may be a problem. Imagine that there is a situation in which in the Council of Social Dialogue we negotiate, as with teachers, a raise for the police and not for education. What happened? This dialogue, I regret to say, conducted in the light of the cameras, but also well prepared For the first time, negotiations were held for teachers at the Social Dialogue Council... And at that point, one head office signed an agreement with the government without communicating with the other head offices on this matter. And here's the government announcing that there's an agreement. That was not the agreement. And so now: in the Council of Social Dialogue, education are civilians, but the danger that results from the preparation of pluralism for services and their entry into such a system causes that in politically divided Poland, in the future more or less, there could be a dangerous situation. We've been discussing this. These people have guns. There can't be a situation, either, that if someone... you have to predict what might happen when you prepare a bill like this. If one of the commanders, commanders, comes in and says if you don't sign up for the right headquarters, you won't be promoted... These are fears that exist not because they have to be. Only, as far as I know, but I think everyone, the laws aren't written for a specific situation, they're for society. Therefore, this solution is still dangerous for us. The bill passed very quickly, in July it was adopted, and all the talks lasted in June. We believe that this is harmful, and this is not how it should be discussed. As I say, there was no such consultation in the Council of Social Dialogue on the monism and pluralism of uniformed services as they should be. It was mentioned, and it was designated... But there wasn't a point. When the discussion was proposed, the parties spoke and the matter ended. I have 2 protocols, which are available from us, in the Council of Social Dialogue, in which it is specifically written... This was not a consultation carried out in accordance with the Social Dialogue Council Act. Mr. Senator asked me more about applications and permissions... And offers for the future. And offers for the future. We, our headquarters, which took the lead in the Council in November of that year, had at that time just this proposal, and we wanted to ask the Marshal of the Sejm to discuss it, and we prepared a change to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, so that it would be easier to introduce these laws, which would follow the speedy parliamentary path, so that they could enter the Social Dialogue Council more easily; it was all these socio-economic laws, i.e. those that concern employees and employees. We had a meeting with the principal... but the marshal didn't meet us. Despite my requests for a meeting, there has not been such a meeting with Marshal Kuchcinski. And why did we want this to happen? Because this year, during our leadership, we cannot change the law, because the law, in accordance with the provisions of the RDS Act, can be amended every 2 years, i.e. it will not be possible until 2020. So we wanted to introduce a social agreement with the government. It seemed like a very good idea to make such a social agreement. Because we remember the year 2008, when the anti-crisis package was created, but, remember, this country, all the consequences of the crisis were actually borne by the workers. I'm not going to mention all the arguments here anymore, but civil law agreements were supposed to be for two years, and they're still very deeply rooted today. Such civil law agreements we as Poland have about 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, more such agreements have only Colombia and Chile. OECD shows that the mean should be 11% And let me remind you, in our case, it's 27.5%. Therefore, we thought that talking about a social agreement with the government, signing a future wage agreement, talking about not paying the workers again when the crisis comes, about agreements that should apply... Of course, there was also a wide range of discussions about flexibility, but also worker safety. That was the intention. But these conversations didn't happen. The teachers' strike started and negotiations started, which also failed. However, we believe that negotiations should take place in the place of the Council of Social Dialogue, not in the form of street strikes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. If anybody else wants to ask you a question, please join the list. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u41	Madam President, I do not know if you are familiar with the problem of putting out work relations. Well, the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team has also asked your predecessor, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, to address this problem by the Social Dialogue Council, otherwise a serious problem for several hundred people. Mrs. Rafalska didn't take care of the problem. When she became Minister, I returned to the Minister in connection with this problem and received a written reply, stating that the Social Dialogue Council had been asked to address this issue. And that was the only trace of our appeals, there was never any further. Can you explain to me why we as the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team have received no response to our request and why the Social Dialogue Council has not addressed this problem? And he's an important problem. Well, employees win trials with the National Tax Administration, although, even though they win trials, they are not returned to work or receive compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u42	There you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u43	Thank you. Mr. Senator, well, that's a question for Minister Rafalski, but there's a director of Waleskiewicz from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the room, so... I didn't get that kind of information and I didn't have it on the agenda, I don't recall that point. If that's not the case, I can ask the director to answer that question. Could I ask you to answer that question in writing? But I have completely different information from the Minister. Good. Okay, Mr. Senator, we'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski wants to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u45	Thank you. Madam President, such an important one, one can say, coming from even the Constitution... This legal institution, the legal dimension of this dialogue, is the Labour Code, relations between the parties. Has the Social Dialogue Council dealt with this? And if she didn't do it and if she doesn't do it, what will happen if the current code has only been revised, as I remember, in 1993 and since then the situation in the world in terms of labour markets, contacts between partners, types of... new links far, far ahead of the current legal formulas?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u46	Thank you for that question, Senator. I will say this: I told you at the beginning of my speech that in 2018 a codification committee was set up and work was carried out on the draft law of the Labour Code. However, as I said, work with social partners, experts, academics and the government has not implemented this project has ended. I hope so. I'm gonna say it again. That one of the governments will take care of this particular acquis. Because this is, here I agree with the senator, an extremely important bill and indeed the important achievements of the social partners, experts and academics. This material, Mr. Senator, is prepared, but it has not become a matter of government interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u47	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask the president's question? No. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mrs Dorota Gardias, has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senator Jerzy Wcisła. I'm opening a joint discussion. Because none of your senators signed up to discuss... I'd like to speak, if I may. In a discussion? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u48	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would very briefly like to take the floor in this discussion with regard to the Social Dialogue Council. Social dialogue and mutual respect should be the basis of social life, solving various problems. This was the basis of the bill and should be a daily practice. I would like to comment on the circumvention of the projects that you have mentioned, in particular the parliamentary projects, the consultation of the Council of Social Dialogue and the shortening of the legislative path, which, as a result of being shortened, does not allow for very important opinions from various social parties. This is a very bad situation. And the fact that you proposed that there should be a legal obligation in the work of the Sejm... This should also apply to the work of the Senate. Since he has his projects, because such projects are also reported by the Senate, he should be obliged to consult, among others. with the Social Dialogue Council. I imagine that there are projects that are actually extremely urgent, but these are exceptional situations. During this term of office, this practice has been particularly intensified. There were many, dozens of such legal proposals, which were regarded as parliamentary, so the road was shortened and not received opinions from various parties, including the Social Dialogue Council. I therefore strongly support what you have proposed. It is, in my opinion, the task of the House of Members, the Senate Chamber of the future term of office, for this kind of solution to be included in the Rules of Procedure. And just to make it very clear that the situation that is currently taking place, namely the lack of discussion, the lack of consultation of various projects, is a deeply inappropriate situation, causing conflicts, not giving rise to the various opinions that exist in society. This should be amended in the next term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mrs Dorota Gardias, like to take the floor and comment on the Senator's speech? No. Thank you. Thank you, Madam President, for presenting the Senate with a report and information. I note that the Senate took note of the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2018 and information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the President of the Trade Union Forum. Thank you very much, Madam President. I now declare a five-minute recess until 10.35 p.m. Six minutes, actually. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 29 to 10 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item forty-eight of the agenda: consent to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. I would like to inform you that the Marshal of the Senate addressed the application of the company Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale Sp. z o.o., represented by the attorney of attorney Kornel Postalski, for consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to attract Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to civil liability. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. The report is contained in print No 1313. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the request for consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. On 14 August 2019 the Senate Marshal submitted a request to the committee. Following the examination of this request at its meeting on 24 September 2019, pursuant to Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 and in conjunction with Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall submit a proposal to reject the application submitted on 25 July 2019 by Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale Sp. z o.o., represented by the attorney-in-law of Kornel Zastalski, for consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to draw Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to civil liability. Briefly. At the committee meeting, this matter did not create any more discussion. Most of the senators who took the floor agreed to the motion to reject this motion, stating that what you were doing was a typical execution of the senator's mandate, a typical senator's intervention. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any questions? There isn't. Thank you. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate's Rules of Procedure shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Grzegorz Pekkis like to make an explanation? Yes, Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u52	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject that is being considered today, the lawsuit against me, the civil suit, concerns the strictly senator's activity. To the extent that the plaintiff seeks to convict me, to hold me responsible for my duties, I genuinely feel innocent. I didn't insult the Senate's seriousness and the function I performed. Let me explain briefly that the case concerns sales. and the accompanying circumstances of the port area in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. This port was sold a few years ago and the circumstances of the sale were covered by secrecy. I've been following a very specific, large number of residents. At the same time, both the councilmen and the city's executives were involved, and there were social protests to explain the circumstances of the sale of the area. Today, after years, I can say that the area of 30 acres was sold by an intermediary who received a remuneration for this mediation, the contract was drawn up so that the intermediary had all the money from the sale and at the same time the city committed itself and made an investment for the new owner for the amount of several million zlotys. In other words, the city as of today, according to the data I have, still does not have any funds from this sale and has made concrete investments for this investor. In short, it's all about what's going on out there today. In his business... If I received, and received, complaints, as well as written complaints, also documented, and they exceeded in my opinion what I could run as a senator, then at the request of these complainants the relevant state services, voivode, etc., I informed in writing what the subject matter of the complaint was. One of the documents on the basis of which I am accused that I have affected the mistreatment of the company's image is the memo that I made after a meeting with the complainant, specifically with one of the city councillors, and, to be honest, this is not the Councilman of Law and Justice. A note from this meeting, completely objectively made, I sent to the voivodship, not to the voivodship office, but specifically to the voivodship. This is a memo from the senator to the voivodeship, a memo from the meeting. The person who has claims against me thinks it's a public note because he got this memo after knowing that such a memo is On the basis of access to public information. The Voivode simply gave this note to this entity. This memo was never published by me, I never showed it on any pages, I didn't reveal its contents, because I thought it was a matter that had to be interested in the office of voivodeship, the authorities of the state, and it was absolutely not suitable for publication. Why the voivodeship did this, I can't judge. But I can judge the future. As part of its activities For the sake of clarity, I checked what the city office and the executive body of the city office, the president of the city, were doing, and I had reservations about these reservations. And I wasn't doing what the investor himself was doing, assuming... Besides, in the vote, I voted in favour of the investor making this investment. That's why I'm surprised that the lawsuit against me didn't go to the city president's office. It is likely that it could discuss, but it also has the opportunity to discuss in a different form. Only the investor himself. If you were to take the trouble of following up on those dozens of pages of a lawsuit that are available to you in correspondence, you would find that in any of those statements quoted, in which I would defame the company's image, I did not refer to any of its representatives. Besides, I've never met them, I've never had a chance to meet them, they've never been to my place, they've never sought any positive action. I also spoke about the company without using its name because I respect the business in the city of these investors. However, this does not change the fact that if there are concrete doubts about the operation of the local government, then in my opinion And I'm left with that conviction... If there are doubts as to the payment of taxes, and such doubts were, if there are doubts as to how to advise on tax avoidance, and such doubts were, if there are doubts as to the execution of an agreement which has been classified and secret to this day We're talking about a contract for the sale of public assets... It's a public property contract, and the municipality's account, to my knowledge, the best I have today, still, after a few years, didn't get the money from selling this property. To me, they were. and these are important doubts. And as long as I didn't take any judicial action myself, it seemed important to me to notify the state authorities that such circumstances were taking place, the more so that the office... In my opinion, it was purely senatorial. There were certain people coming to the office with documented suspicions. I asked why they didn't go to the D.A.'s office, why they didn't go to the police. They were simply scared of people, because the vast amount of topics and suspicions with which they came, perhaps it was exaggerated, but from that there were servants to settle it, it was very, very serious. I remain convinced, not being delicious or overconfident, that if I had the opportunity to perform the function of Senator, I look back now . and actions for society, even if explaining these circumstances without prejudicing the effect, I would probably behave very, very much the same way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u53	Thank you, Senator. Do any of you senators want to ask a question about this? No. Thank you. Thank you very much. The vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 2:00 p.m. At 2:00 p.m. vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 46 to 14 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Let me just say a few words. This is the end of the term of office, the ninth term of office. Let me direct... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, you guys sit down, it's me standing up... Can we sit down? Yeah, yeah... Mr. Marshal, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, the ninth term of office of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is coming to an end. It is just four years of the House's work that drives us to sum up and reflect. They relate in particular to our joint work on law-making. The role and importance of the Senate are borne out by its four-year achievements. Among them, I will first mention legislative initiatives. Since the beginning of his term of office, the Senate has adopted and sent 55 draft initiatives to the Sejm, of which he has considered and adopted 34. 27 initiatives were taken to implement decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, 9 initiatives resulting from the examination of petitions, and the remaining 19 initiatives concerned other legal matters. During the 4th year of the 9th term of office, the Senate examined 905 laws. To 208 of them introduced a total of 1 thousand 936 amendments, the Sejm accepted 96% These Senate amendments. As Marshal of the Senate, I took care to preserve the freedom of expression of all senators, which is expressed by statistics. A summary of the speaking time of the various senators during the entire term shows that the senators from the Civic Platform club spoke the longest time. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] And they even won here. Senators from the club Law and Justice spoke 367 hours, independent of more than 7 hours, senators of the club of the Polish People's Party 4.5 hours. The Senate attaches great importance to activities aimed at commemorating and honoring important for Polish history of people and events. This was expressed in the adoption by the House of 101 special resolutions in this term of office. The House commemorated the anniversaries of important historical events: the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism, the 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union, the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence and the 30th anniversary of the reborn Senate. The Senate is an institution open to all valuable initiatives, as evidenced by the fact that 95 conferences and seminars were held in this Chamber and 74 major exhibitions were presented. The Senate has worked intensively to develop and maintain good relations with the parliaments of European and non-European countries. This was seen in direct contacts, official Senate delegations and the Senate taking foreign delegations. The Senators participated actively in meetings, seminars, conferences organised by institutions such as the European Union, NATO, OSCE and actively participated in the work of 53 bilateral parliamentary groups. An extremely important area of activity of the Senate was activities for Polish people and Poles abroad. It should be recalled that, at the beginning of this term of office, after a few years' break, the funds from the state budget for 2016 for the care of Polonia have returned to the Senate, which, as we know, has been skilfully managing financial aid for our fellow countrymen living abroad since 1989. Numerous meetings of senators with Poles living outside the country, especially behind its eastern border, and Polish consultations were used to exchange views on the improvement of the model of national care for Polonia. An example is the 5th World Congress of Polish and Polish from abroad in 2018, during which people from all over the world discussed in Parliament the most important directions of activity for the coming years, such as education and learning Polish language. The Senate can be proud of its actions in this area, as they have contributed to the important goal of maintaining the national identity of our compatriots and strengthening cultural ties with Poland. Dear Senators, I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation, for your commitment, for your efforts to create a law for society and to strengthen a democratic state. Some of us will also be representatives of this House in the new term of office, and the others will probably take advantage of their competences and experience in other areas of professional or social activity. Thanks, very cordial thanks, I also send to all employees of the Senate Office. Their hard work, commitment and constant readiness to carry out their tasks have enabled the Senate and its organs to successfully fulfil their constitutional roles. Thank you very much again for this. [[Applause]] I am proud to say that our cooperation, working together in the 9th term of office in the Senate, has served the Polish parliament, citizens and the whole country well. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections have recently taken place. I trust that the new Senate will uphold the traditions of the IX and previous term of office, which have included our House in the political landscape of Poland as a room of reflection and reflection. I also hope that the initiative to build the Senate headquarters No matter who will lead our House, it will continue and may be completed in the next term of office. Thank you all very much once again. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2020 as the Year of Physics. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 1282 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1282 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 66 votes against, 10 against and 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing the year 2020 as the Year of Physics. We return to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 60 against, 21 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law amending the law on road traffic. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senator Print No 1325 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of the Family and Care Code and some other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate print No 1315 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Family and Care Code and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law on the Amendment of the Criminal Code and the Law on Civil Procedure. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate print No 1320 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Civil Procedure. We return to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 1321 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the law amending the Anti-Money Laundering Act and the financing of terrorism. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1318 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. We return to the examination of the 30th agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and on Certain Other Acts. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1319 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Double Taxation Dispute Resolution Act and the conclusion of previous price agreements. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1326 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Double Taxation Dispute Resolution Act and the conclusion of previous price agreements. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1327 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Law amending the Law on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1323 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in agreement. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 67]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health protection. We would like to return to the examination of item 30 of the fourth agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law. Education Law and some other laws. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate print No 1322 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law "Educational Law" and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the fifth agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 1316 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the sixth agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Industrial Property Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1332 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Industrial Property Law. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. The Environment Committee and the Infrastructure Committee have submitted a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 1324 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. We are returning to the examination of item thirty-eighth of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. The Environment Committee and the Infrastructure Committee have submitted a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 1328 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. We would like to return to the examination of item 30 of the ninth agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments of the Senate Print No 1329 A and 1329 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018. We return to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on Family, Senior Affairs and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1330 A and 1330 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of Convention 188 on Labour in the Fisheries Sector adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. We return to the examination of item 40 of the first agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up at Rome on 13 June 1976. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1331 A and 1331 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up in Rome on 13 June 1976. We return to the examination of item 40 of the third agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by St. John Paul's Year II. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. This third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 1311 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1311 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 82 votes in favour, no votes against, three abstentions. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of St. John Paul's Year II. We return to the examination of item 40 of the fourth agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 1312 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1312 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw. We would like to return to the discussion of item 40 of the fifth agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Prize for Literature to Olga Tokarczuk. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 1333 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1333 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 60 for, 2 against, 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Prize to Olga Tokarczuk. We would like to return to the examination of item forty-eight of the agenda: consent to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee proposes to reject the application of Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale sp. Z o.o., represented by an attorney, Kornel Postalski's attorney, for consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to attract Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to civil liability. We are voting for consent to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. The Senate agrees to drag the senator into civil judicial liability by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the senator's involvement in civil judicial liability. Mr. Marshal, there are questions. Well, if it's the right thing [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is this a vote in favour of the committee's position or a waiver? I can read it to you, ladies and gentlemen. Please understand... Yeah, just so we know... You've been talking, so I'm not surprised that not everyone heard. The whole point. Can I have some water, please? We would like to return to the examination of item forty-eight of the agenda: consent to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee proposes to reject the application of Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale sp. Z o.o., represented by an attorney, Kornel Postalski's attorney, for consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to attract Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to civil liability. We proceed with the vote on the expression... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm not gonna read it for the third time. That's what I'm saying right now. We are voting for consent to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. The Senate agrees to drag the senator into civil judicial liability by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the senator's involvement in civil judicial liability. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We vote against, against. He's our man. Please report the results. 84 senators voted, no one was in favour, 83 were against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 79]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the civil liability of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 80th meeting has been exhausted. I'd like to make a statement. Then later, then in a minute. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose content cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senators would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Can I have another moment, please? This is not a senator's statement, but since most of you haven't left yet, I'd like to ask you something. Mr. Marshal spoke very, very warmly to us with thanks and said that we could have a sense of a duty towards our homeland. I think so, we've done a lot for Poland. But, Mr. Marshal, it would be indecent if the House hadn't thanked you. I just, of course, with great respect for your professionalism, also for a huge culture, for a humor that sometimes discharges tension, but above all, a great respect for all of us, regardless of whether from this side of the room or from there, I would like to say And I think I'll be the expressor of everyone, thank you, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In this year's parliamentary elections, I applied for the seat of a senator from the sixty-sixth district, including the Gdansk, old-garden and Tczewski districts, which I represented during the current Senate term. The election results are well known. I would like to thank, with all my heart, over 65 thousand citizens who voted for me. My opponent has gained more support, which I congratulate him on. I would like to thank all those who supported me during the election campaign with their skills, time and extraordinary commitment. I have had a great deal of friendly support and human and civic solidarity from you. We did what we had to do together, and we gave in to the voter's verdict. I value very much the ties that have arisen between us, and I believe that the social capital created in this way will not be wasted. Congratulations to all those who have been given a mandate as a result of the election, regardless of the party from which they competed. Our country's affairs are in your hands now. Following the last words of the deceased recently asleep. Kornel Morawiecki, I wish you not to stop thinking about Poland and to reach national agreement. Thinking about Poland means raising above particular interests and adopting ideas higher than personal, group or party success, for which it is worth sacrificing our own commitment. National agreement alongside pro-family policy was an important motive for my parliamentary work. Pursuing dialogue and respect in social life and rational social policy were the reasons why I decided to apply for re-election. I encourage future parliamentarians to cultivate dialogue and respect in mutual references of conflicted political camps. The division caused by a bad way of competing for power is shifted to various spheres of social life in which it causes great damage. We need to create a new climate and build solutions that will promote agreement and cooperation and, consequently, strengthen our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers was... Not yet. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Me too. Oh, I didn't notice. Good. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of making four brief statements. The first statement is addressed to the President of the Polish Railway Lines. My senator's office was visited by residents of Gąsocin and surrounding towns concerned about the deteriorating state of the historic railway station in Gąsocin in the municipality of Sonsk. Despite the obligation of the owner to undertake security work on this historic site, one of the few such historical railway buildings is being destroyed. Therefore, I ask you to inform me whether security work is envisaged and to indicate their timetable and also to answer the question of when it is planned to bring this monument to its proper state. Declaration to the Minister of Education. My senator's office was approached by representatives of the teaching community, presenting the problem of doing work on the Internet. A large part of the work of the teacher is currently done by means of a computer - there are descriptive evaluations and formulated opinions about the students. All of these activities require the installation of Office office application packages on the equipment used by the teacher, which generates annual costs for the teacher in no way reimbursed. As the teacher's work will increasingly be based on computer work in the near future, I ask the question whether some form of teacher support is being considered in this area. Declaration to the Minister for Science and Higher Education. The Bureau of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland announced in a special statement the disciplinary responsibility of people of science who have a critical opinion about the ideology of LGBT. This raises concerns about the possibility of introducing ideological censorship in Poland. I therefore ask for information on the assessment of this statement by the Prime Minister and whether work is envisaged in the Ministry of Science to amend the legislation on the basis of which university rectors may impose penalties on politically or ideologically uncomfortable academic teachers. A fourth and final statement addressed to Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. Dear Marshal, As Senator of the Ciechanov Region, I would like to thank the Marshal for leading and directing the work of the Senate of the 9th term of office. At the same time, I would like to express my thanks to the dear people of northern Mazovia, whom I warmly thank for their participation in the elections and the votes cast for me. In the elections to the Senate of the Republic of Poland from the Ciechanów district I received 83 thousand 808 votes, i.e. 58% all the votes cast in the district. I would like to thank all the activists and supporters of Law and Justice and volunteers who have engaged in the election campaign. In the new, 10th term of the Senate of the Republic of Poland thanks to your support and trust, I will be honoured to represent once again the northern Mazowsze in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, serving all inhabitants of the Ciechanian subregion and the brightest of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. And you... Me too. Yes? If you don't mind. I'm sorry. Yes. It's Senator Professor Żaryn now, and then your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u61	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to address my words to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, although probably he should not be the only recipient. Well, I've been working for 4 years with the writing of Magna Polonia. This writing is undoubtedly very right-wing, unambiguously right-wing. And from the editor-in-chief, I received an email in which he wrote the following words to me asking me to intervene in this matter. In recent days we have been struck by an unexpected blow from the international corporation P., which arbitraryly blocked our account. In the email we received from P., we can read And here's a fragment. That we have imposed permanent restrictions on your account. A recent review of your account operations has shown that you are violating P.'s acceptable usage rules. The end, the continuation is less important. I have a question about how you can get information about what that means, that someone has violated the rules of acceptable use. Of course, the site was not gracious to define this fragment of the email. This gives us a clear conviction that we are dealing with pure censorship. Since there is no censor office in Poland and there should be a responsibility for the use of censor methods, my inquiry concerns possible exclusion of P. from public space in the Polish state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u62	Thank you, Senator. Marshal Maria Paniczyk-Podziej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I didn't want to speak because I didn't know it was appropriate to speak today, in such a joyous day for some, perhaps less joyful day, such very personal speeches, but let me say these few words to you, because when after 14 years a man parts with politics, he has such an internal need to settle with himself and tell others what he is proud of and what he failed to do. I'm aware that my last term of office isn't so specially suited to success. Sometimes it's hard to fight my own physicality, the more I thank everyone who helped me in these difficult days, months. I didn't give up fighting for the Senate of my own free will. Unfortunately, sometimes it is. And many of your senators have experienced and experienced this. That the support of people, voters does not always go hand in hand with the sympathy of decision-makers. I know that the person I have proposed to my place and whom I support, i.e. Zygmunt Frankiewicz, President Gliwice, enters the Senate as a pro-state man, as an ideal man, he enters the Senate with a specific mission: to save local governments. And he could for the next five years, especially since this self-government term has just begun, to deal with, as it's said uglylyly, a warm job. But he chose to fight. And that's the kind of people we should choose to be our leaders. Now, speaking of me myself, I'm aware that I've lacked feistyness, I've never been and I'm not a fighter and a radical person, and that's certainly an advantage in every party. I believe that talking, dialogue, skilful compromises in politics brings better results than putting everything at the edge of a knife. I am also aware that Silesian matters have always been put on a pedestal by me, and all these years I have been a senator of all Poles. But I won't change anymore, I'm too old, and I don't even know if I want to change. I ask my fellow Members to be understanding for my shortcomings, for my disability, and thank you for the 14 years I have spent in this House, and which nevertheless were a beautiful time and gave me the opportunity to meet many truly valuable people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-18-senat-85-4.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'm asking the secretary to read the messages. Are there any messages? There's no messages. There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 80th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 45]]
